---

title: Method for routing in a central conferencing routing server
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems, methods, computer program products, and the like, for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network, and more specifically for a conferencing routing service for managing and routing collaboration participants. A collaboration conferencing routing server may provide configurability in routing a collaboration conference to a conference bridge based on any number of criteria and information about the requester and the communications network on which the conference occurs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178918&OS=09178918&RS=09178918
owner: LEVEL 3 COMMUNICATIONS, LLC
number: 09178918
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121207
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to provisional patent application No. 61 584 115 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE and provisional patent application No. 61 584 122 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE both filed on Jan. 6 2012 and both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein. This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 794 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 798 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 803 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 807 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 810 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION all filed on Dec. 21 2011 and each of which is incorporated by reference in there entirety herein. In addition this application is related to concurrently filed patent application titled CENTRAL CONFERENCE ROUTING SERVER Ser. No. 13 708 636 patent application titled LOAD BALANCING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER Ser. No. 13 708 678 and patent application titled DISASTER RECOVERY WITH A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER Ser. No. 13 708 689 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods that provide for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants using devices connected to a telecommunication network including a VoIP network and more specifically for a conferencing routing service for managing and routing collaboration participants.

Telecommunication networks provide for the transmission of information across some distance through terrestrial wireless or satellite communication networks. Such communications may involve voice data or multimedia information among others. In addition telecommunication networks often offer features and or services to the customers of the network that provide flexible and varied ways in which the communications are transmitted over the network. For example some telecommunication networks provide a conferencing feature that allows several users of the network to communicate at once rather than a simple person to person communication. The number of participants to a conference communication may range from several users to several thousand users communicating on the same telephonic video and or data call.

Typically conferencing communications require participants to the conference to place a telephonic call to a dedicated conferencing number. Some networks also require the participants enter a conference call code into the keypad of a telephonic device. The conferencing number and code are then utilized by the telecommunications network to connect that participant to a conference bridge device. In general a conference bridge is a telecommunications device that hosts the participants of a conferencing communication such that the participants can participate in a conference call. Thus the network typically receives the dialed number and conference code from each participant and connects the participant to the conference bridge. Once connected to the conference bridge the participant may take part in the conference. To ensure that each of the participants of the conference may take part in the communication each participant must connect to the same conference bridge. However the routing of the participant to the conference bridge typically occurs without consideration of the routing of the other participants to the conference bridge by the network. Rather each request from each participant may be routed to a conference bridge on an individual basis.

It is with these and other issues in mind among others that various aspects of the present disclosure were conceived and developed.

One implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a telecommunications network. The network comprises a plurality of collaboration conferencing routing servers comprising a master conferencing routing server executing a master control engine application and at least one slave conferencing routing server wherein each of the plurality of collaboration conferencing routing servers comprises a database configured to store a state of at least one initiated collaboration conferences on the telecommunications network and a plurality of conference bridges configured to host a collaboration conference connected to the plurality of collaboration conferencing routing servers. In addition the master control engine is configured to perform certain operations. Such operations include receiving a collaboration conference access request from a requester to initiate a collaboration conference associating an identification number with the collaboration conference access request the identification number associated with a customer of a telecommunications network selecting a hosting conference bridge from the plurality of conference bridges the selection occurring in response to the collaboration conference access request and identification number and transmitting one or more conference state messages to the at least one slave conferencing routing server wherein the one or more conference state messages include an active state of the at least one initiated collaboration conference and an indication of the selected conference bridge.

Another implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of method for routing one or more collaboration conference access requests. The method may include the operations of receiving a collaboration conference access request from a requester s telephonic device at a master conferencing routing server of a plurality of conferencing routing servers wherein the a master conferencing routing server executes a master control engine application and associating an identification number with the collaboration conference access request the identification number associated with a customer of a telecommunications network. In addition the method may include selecting a hosting conference bridge from a plurality of conference bridges connected to the plurality of conferencing routing servers the hosting conference bridge configured to host a collaboration conference the selection occurring in response to the collaboration conference access request and identification number and transmitting one or more routing messages to the telecommunications network wherein the one or more routing messages include an indication of the selected conference bridge.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems methods computer program products and the like for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network and more specifically for a conferencing routing server for managing and routing collaboration participants. In one example a central conferencing routing server CCRS may be implemented in the communications network to receive a request to join a collaboration conference from one or more of the participants and route the participants to a shared communication bridge that conducts the conference. Additionally the CCRS may receive and maintain information about the communications network to intelligently route the collaboration conference to an appropriate bridge based on any number of criteria. For example the CCRS may communicate with one or more conference bridges associated with the communications network and determine which conference bridge will host a collaboration conference request from a collaboration participant.

The CCRS may also determine which conference bridge will host a collaboration conference request based on other information. For example the CCRS may maintain a database of information or preferences associated with the conference requester and attempt to select a conference bridge based on the requester s information. Such information may include but are not limited to a regional preference the size of the collaboration request and certain collaboration features of the conference collaboration. In another example the CCRS may receive performance information from a plurality of conference bridges able to conduct the collaboration conference and select a conference bridge in response to the performance information. Additionally the CCRS may be configured to respond to a failure in one of the conference bridges to allow for repair to the network and or account for split conferences that may occur due to the bridge failure. In general the CCRS may provide configurability in routing a collaboration conference to a conference bridge based on any number of criteria and information about the requester and the communications network on which the conference occurs.

The VoIP network includes numerous components such as but not limited to gateways routers and registrars which enable communication across the VoIP network but are not shown or described in detail here because those skilled in the art will readily understand these components. More relevant to this description is the interaction and communication between the VoIP network and other entities such as the one or more customer home or business local area networks LANs where a participant in a conference will connect with the system for the conference.

Customer network can include communication devices such as but not limited to a personal computer or a telephone connected to a router firewall . Although shown in as telephonic devices the communication devices may include any type of communication device that receives a multimedia signal such as an audio video or web based signal and presents that signal for use by a user of the communication device. The communication and networking components of the customer network enable a user at the customer network to communicate via the VoIP network to other communication devices such as another customer network and or an analog telephone . Components of the customer network are typically home or business based but they can be relocated and may be designed for easy portability. For example the communication device may be wireless e.g. cellular telephone or portable laptop computer.

The customer network typically connects to the VoIP network via a border network such as one provided by an Internet Service Provider ISP . The border network is typically provided and maintained by a business or organization such as a local telephone company or cable company. The border network may provide network communication related services to their customers. In contrast the communication device accesses and is accessed by the VoIP network via a public switched telephone network PSTN operated by a local exchange carrier LEC . Communication via any of the networks can be wired wireless or any combination thereof. Additionally the border network and PSTN may communicate in some embodiments with the VoIP Network through a media gateway device . For ease of instruction only three communication devices are shown communicating with the VoIP network however numerous such devices and other devices may be connected with the network which is equipped to handle enormous numbers of simultaneous calls and other communications.

In general a request for a collaboration conference over the VoIP network is initiated by a requester through one of the communication devices associated with the network. As used herein the term collaboration conference includes any type of collaboration between three or more users of a communication network. For example the collaboration conference may include audio collaboration video collaboration web collaboration a combination of any of the above and the like. For ease of instruction the collaboration conferences discussed herein are generally made in reference to an audio conference although any type of collaboration conference over a telecommunications network is envisioned with respect to the present disclosure. Similarly although illustrates the communication devices as telephonic devices the communication devices may be any type of communication device including personal computers cellular phones and the like.

Upon receipt of the request for a collaboration conference the network routes the request to the CCRS integrated within the network . However it should be appreciated that the CCRS may be a part of the network may be separate from the network or may have portions deployed in the network and out of the network. In addition the CCRS may be resident on one or more components of the VoIP network including several instances of the CCRS integrated throughout the network . Further although only a single instance of a CCRS is illustrated in any number of CCRS instances may be present in the network to form a CCRS system. As discussed in more detail below the network may account for the availability of multiple CCRS devices or instances through a process of establishing a master CCRS control engine.

To transmit the request to the network the requester uses the communication device to dial a conference specific telephone number. In some instances the network upon receipt of the dialed communication executes an application that queries the requester to enter an access code number that the requester enters into the communication device . With this information the network determines that the requester intends to initiate or join a collaboration conference and routes the request to a conference bridge as explained in greater detail below.

In any event the CCRS receives the request to begin a collaboration conference or join an existing conference. In response and described in more detail below the CCRS may route the one or more requests to one of several conference bridges associated with the VoIP network for hosting of the collaboration conference. Although only two conference bridges are shown in it should be appreciated that any number of conference bridges may be associated with the network for hosting collaboration conferences.

In general the conference bridges provide a hosting site for a collaboration conference between a plurality of users of the network . Thus conference bridge A may host a collaboration conference while conference bridge B may host an additional collaboration conference. In particular conference bridge A is connected to the communications network through a media gateway similar to the media gateway disclosed above. This configuration may be utilized when the conference bridge is a time division multiplex TDM bridge. Conference bridge B is internal to the communications network through which the communications of the conference are transmitted. This configuration is utilized for Internet Protocol IP based bridges.

Additionally the CCRS may be configured for use with any number of network and conference bridge platforms. For example the telecommunications network of may be configured as a TDM network or an IP based network which includes video audio and web based components to which the CCRS may be configured to interface. Another particular network and or conference bridge platform supported by the network configuration of is a Session Initiation Protocol SIP based network. For example conference bridge B may be a SIP based conference bridge. Such IP based components may provide additional conferencing features to the network by providing information concerning the collaboration conference in a header of a message transmitted through the network such as an identification of the collaboration conference video integration Uniform Resource Identifier URI based routing and conference integration conference access credentials for authentication and permission to enter the requested conference. SIP based conference bridges may also provide high definition audio additional security features and transitions between collaboration conferences without having to redial into the system. In general because components operating utilizing SIP can exchange information within a header many additional features for a collaboration conference can be offered to participants on a SIP based conference bridge. In addition SIP based CCRS devices may utilize many of the advantages of information exchange within the header when communicating with TDM based network devices.

To connect to a collaboration conference each participant to the conference may be routed to the same conference bridge for the duration of the conference. The conference bridge in turn provides communication ports for each participant such that each participant can hear or otherwise participate in the collaboration conference. Any conference bridge known in the art or hereafter developed may be integrated into the system of for hosting a collaboration conference. In addition the term conference bridge or bridge includes any component of a communication network that provides an access point to one or more users of the network for a collaboration conference. For example conference bridge may also include such devices as a media server device a gateway server device or the like as configured within the network .

Returning to the network may be utilized by one or more participants to a collaboration or conferencing communication hosted on a conference bridge . In particular is a flowchart of a method for the CCRS of the network to receive a request from one or more participants to join a collaboration session and route the participants to the proper conference bridge through which the collaboration is hosted. In general the operations described in relation to the flowchart of are performed by one or more components of the CCRS as part of the telecommunications network .

Beginning with operation a participant to a conference communication may dial into the conference using a telephonic device and or . In particular the participant may dial a conference number and or enter a conference code to access the collaboration conference. The media gateway or other switching device routes the request from the participant to the CCRS through the network . In the request is illustrated by the dashed line between the media gateway and the CCRS . As should be appreciated in some IP networks the request may be routed to the CCRS on a signaling plane and does not include the audio portion of the communication. The request is then received by the CCRS as indicated by operation of .

Upon receipt the CCRS determines in operation which of the available conference bridges associated with the network that is hosting or will host the collaboration conference requested by the participant. The CCRS may utilize several factors to determine which conference bridge hosts the collaboration conference. Such factors and operations performed by the CCRS to determine the appropriate conference bridge are discussed in more detail below. In addition the CCRS may communicate with one or more of the conference bridges associated with the network in operation . This communication between the CCRS and the conference bridges is illustrated by the dashed lines between the CCRS and the conference bridges in . Further in the embodiment in which the conference bridge is within the network the CCRS would communicate directly with the conference bridge without going through the media gateway device .

In one embodiment the CCRS communicates particularly with the app server component of the conference bridge to determine the appropriate collaboration bridge and to establish the collaboration conference. The app server component of the conference bridge may provide any information concerning the conference bridge to the CCRS including number and types of available ports the technical capabilities of the conference bridge current collaboration conferences being hosted by the conference bridge and the like. In another example the conference bridge may be a SIP based conference bridge. In this example the CCRS would communicate with the app server through the network interface unit . The app server then provisions the requested ports and notifies the CCRS when such ports are available for the collaboration conference. In addition the app server provides the information of the conference bridge that may be utilized by the CCRS to determine which conference bridge will host the collaboration conference.

For example a participant may utilize the telephonic device or other communication device to access the network and request access to a collaboration conference. The media gateway associated with the communication device routes the request to the CCRS . In response the CCRS identifies conference bridge B as the conference bridge which will host or is hosting the collaboration conference. In one embodiment the CCRS communicates with conference bridge B to determine availability and verify that the collaboration conference is hosted on conference bridge B.

In operation the CCRS requests an open communication port from the conference bridge identified in operation . In the embodiment shown in the conference bridge may utilize a port in the DSP component of the conference bridge in response to the request sent by the CCRS . The open port in the DSP component allows the participant to connect to the collaboration conference hosted by the conference bridge and participate in the conference. In addition the conference bridge may transmit an acknowledgement to the CCRS from which the request originated to indicate that the requested communication is open. Again in IP based networks the request for available ports and acknowledgement may occur on a separate communication signal than the audio or video portion of the collaboration communication. Further a SIP based network the request may include certain information in the header of the request such as the master ID number and or the number of requested ports. The request made by the CCRS to the conference bridge is illustrated in as the dashed line from the CCRS to the media gateways associated with each conference bridge.

In operation the CCRS receives the acknowledgement message from the conference bridge . In one embodiment the acknowledgement message contains information that identifies the open port to the CCRS . For example in the SIP based embodiment the acknowledgment may include the IP address of the conference bridge in the header of the message. In response to receiving the acknowledgement message the CCRS routes the participant s communication to the open port in the conferencing bridge in operation . In one embodiment the CCRS facilitates the communication to the conference bridge such that the audio portion of the communication from the participant is no longer routed through the CCRS. For example in a network that utilizes Session Initiation Protocol SIP the CCRS may issue a SIP Refer command to the media gateway in operation to route the participant communication to the conference bridge effectively removing the CCRS from the communication flow. This refer message may include the IP address of the selected conference bridge in the header such that the network can route the communication to the selected conference bridge. The connection of the communication bypassing the CCRS is illustrated in as the solid line connecting the media gateway associated with the participant s telephonic device and the media gateway associated with conference bridge A . Thus through the use of the method outlined in the CCRS may receive a request from a participant of a collaboration conference and route the participant to the proper conference bridge that hosts the specific collaboration conference. In a similar manner collaboration conference participants may be routed to media gateway and conference bridge A such that multiple conferences may be occurring simultaneously through the network on multiple conferencing bridges .

As can be understood in light of the CCRS described above utilizing a central conferencing server provides several advantages over previous conferencing systems. As mentioned prior art conferencing systems statically connected each participant to a conferencing bridge based on the number assigned to the participant. Thus such networks had no mechanism for adjusting the load on any one conferencing bridge based on the number of conference participants. In addition such systems proved difficult in determining proper billing rates for the collaboration conference as each participant could be requesting access to the conference from any place on the globe without any central mechanism for determining the location of each participant.

In contrast the CCRS of the present disclosure provides flexibility in the routing and handling of the collaboration conferences. For example because each participant request is directed to the CCRS handling of the participant request is easier on the communications network as the termination point for each request is the same component of the network. In particular by including a component of the network that is dedicated to handling all requests for a conference participation other components in the network that were previously tasked with receiving and routing the request may be freed to handle other type of network traffic. In addition the CCRS provides protection against unintended overloading of a conference bridge. For example a very large company with several thousand employees may utilize the communication network for collaboration conferences. However because collaboration conference numbers are typically directly associated to a dedicated conference bridge for that number too many employees of a particular company attempting to initiate a collaboration conference at the same time may overload a conference bridge that is already hosting several other collaboration conferences. To prevent this many communication networks may assign several conferencing access numbers to the very large company so that the employees are spread over several conference bridges. However providing several conferencing access numbers to a single entity may be confusing to the employees of the very large company. In contrast because the CCRS provides dynamic routing of the conference participants a single conference access number may be provided to the very large company as the same conference access number may be routed to any one of the available conferencing bridges rather than the dedicated conference bridge for the number. In this example even if an inordinate number of employees attempt to initiate collaboration conferences at the same time the CCRS can route the participants accordingly such that all of the collaboration conferences do not end up on the same conference bridge that may overload the bridge.

In another example an administrator of a collaboration conference may prefer to include other types of multimedia communications to accompany the voice portion of the collaboration conference. For example a web page may be provided to an administrator of the conference to provide presentations and or control over the conference. The web moderator web page provides such control features as the ability to mute all participants disconnect a particular individual participant show the number and identification of each participant and the like. However such a web page may not be within the capabilities of each conference bridge. Thus when such features are requested by a moderator of the collaboration conference it is often advantageous to place the conference on a conference bridge that supports such features. Such routing of a conference to a conference bridge that supports the technical requirements of the collaboration conference can occur dynamically through the use of the CCRS described above. Further examples of dynamic routing advantages gained through the use of a CCRS in the telecommunications network are described below.

Also a conferencing system that utilizes a CCRS can adapt to varying aspects of the collaboration conference. For example the CCRS may identify that the participants to a particular collaboration conference are originating from a certain region of the world based on the telephonic device the requester accesses the network. In this example the CCRS can route each participant to a conference bridge that is geographically located near the region of the world of each participant to improve the reliability of the conference. Also the CCRS may aid in the accurate billing of the conference to a customer by providing a central location in which information for each participant to a conference can be retained and retrieved by the telecommunications network. Such information may not be available to a conference bridge that just receives communications from the telecommunications network as the information may be spread over any number of devices in the network.

An additional advantage provided by the CCRS is a more robust and faster disaster recovery during failure of a conference bridge hosting a collaboration conference. In previous conferencing systems such disaster recovery required a network administrator to reroute each participant to the conference to a new conference bridge requiring both time and manpower to accomplish. In contrast the CCRS as described herein may be programmed to identify a failure at a conference bridge and dynamically reroute each participant to a new conference bridge. This rerouting of the participants to a new conference bridge may occur with or without action by a network administrator such that disaster recovery occurs automatically. These advantages and more may be realized through the utilization of a CCRS in a conferencing system provided by a telecommunications network.

The CCRS may include a database configured to store information concerning an associated network one or more customers or users of the network identification numbers and or any other information useful by the CCRS in routing billing load balancing disaster recover and the like for collaboration conferencing communications. For example the database may store identification numbers for individuals or groups of users to the network who have access to a collaboration conference feature. Associated with the identification numbers may be one or more telephone numbers access codes communication device identifications master identifications and routing rules associated with the users. The database may also store information associated with the routing and handling of collaboration conferencing such as accepted communication devices welcoming messages and operational rules for conducting the collaboration conference. In general any information that may be utilized by the CCRS to route a collaboration communication and conduct the collaboration conference may be stored in one or more databases associated with the CCRS.

The CCRS also includes a web server or web application that utilizes one or more applications stored in an application server to execute the one or more applications. For example the web server may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that execute any number of stored applications to perform the operations described herein. The web server may also enable the provisioning of the databases of the CCRS by the application server . In addition the CCRS may include a network interface unit as a proxy for receiving any type of information and or instructions from the network to route the communication. The network interface unit may also initiate one or more of the applications stored in the application server or database for execution by the CCRS and or receive a request from the telecommunications network to initiate a collaboration conference.

Through the use of the described components the CCRS provides added flexibility and features to collaboration conferencing not previously available. For example because each collaboration conference request is routed through the CCRS or system of CCRS routing rules may be applied to a block of related requesters identified by a master ID number or customer number removing the need to update the routing rules for each member associated with the master ID or customer number. In addition the database of the CCRS may maintain a control engine or state of a particular CCRS that determines which conference bridge a collaboration conference occurs. Thus through the centralized nature of the CCRS and the storage of customer and conference information the CCRS provides flexibility in routing the collaboration conference requests.

In operation the CCRS may perform the operations of the flowchart of . In particular the CCRS receives a request to establish a collaboration conference at the network interface in operation . The request may include information concerning the requestor such as requestor s telephone number and access code number. However although the operations of are described in reference to the request comprising the requestor s telephone phone number and access code number this is but one example of the information used by the CCRS to identify the requester. For example the request may include an identification of the requester s communication device such as a text string of the requester s personal computer. In another example the requester s name may be used as the identifier of the requester in the request. Thus any operation described herein utilizing the requester s telephone number and access code may be applied to other information contained in the request. For ease of instruction however the example of the telephone number and access code number is used.

Upon receiving the request the application server in concert with the web server utilizes the requestor s telephone number and access code number to possibly determine a group ID number for the requester in operation . In particular with the requester s information the application server accesses a lookup table stored in the database to match the telephone number and code access number to the group ID number. In some instances it is advantageous to associate a group ID number to a group of users of the collaboration conference system. For example through the group ID one or more routing rules may be applied to the entire group without the need to provide a routing rule for each individual member of the group. In some instances the group ID number may be associated with a customer ID number such that each member associated with a customer ID number is given the same group ID number and alterations to the customer s account with the network can be applied to each group member through alterations to routing rules associated with the group ID number. Other information concerning the requester the network and or the collaboration conference may also be retrieved by the application server .

In operation the application server may also associate a master ID reference or number to the collaboration conference request and stores the master ID reference or number in the database . The master ID reference or number is utilized by the network to track the collaboration conference and the participants to the conference and may be associated with the requester s information. With the master ID number associated with the request the application server again accesses the database to determine a state of the collaboration conference. In general if the collaboration conference has been established on a conference bridge such that the requester is a participant to the collaboration conference and not the initiator the database includes an identification of the conference bridge on which the collaboration conferencing is hosted. Alternatively if the request is to initiate a new collaboration conference the database includes a notification the request is a request for a new collaboration conference at which point the application server routes the request to a master CCRS device that executes a master control engine application to determine which conference bridge will host the conference. In this manner the components of the CCRS receive the request to join or initiate a collaboration conference and route the request to the proper conference bridge.

As mentioned above the database may include a subscriber information table that associates information of the requester such as a telephone number access code number or other identification or reference of a requestor to a group ID number for the CCRS system. Thus several different requester references can be associated with the same group ID number such as a customer number. In addition one or more routing rules can be associated with a group ID number in the database . For example one routing rule may restrict all collaboration conferences for a particular group ID number to a particular conference bridge. This removes the need to manually change the routing rules for each individual requester for all of the members of a particular group ID number. Further the database of the CCRS may be utilized by a control engine of the CCRS system to store information utilized by the control engine such as associating a master ID number of a collaboration conference with an ID of the conference bridge on which the conference is hosted the status of a collaboration conference the start time of the collaboration conference the participant count of the conference the maximum number of participants that have attended the particular conference and the like. In general the database may include any information concerning collaboration conferences hosted by the telecommunications network.

I O device may also include an input device not shown such as an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys for communicating information and or command selections to the processors . Another type of user input device includes cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processors and for controlling cursor movement on the display device.

System may include a dynamic storage device referred to as main memory or a random access memory RAM or other computer readable devices coupled to the processor bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processors . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processors . System may include a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the processor bus for storing static information and instructions for the processors . The system set forth in is but one possible example of a computer system that may employ or be configured in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

According to one embodiment the above techniques may be performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . These instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as a storage device. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory may cause processors to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with the software instructions. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure may include both hardware and software components.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Such media may take the form of but is not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

As described by utilizing one or more of the embodiments described above the CCRS system may route a collaboration conference communication to an appropriate conference bridge based on any number of preferences or information about the requester and or communication network. As also mentioned above a telecommunications network may employ a plurality of CCRS in a telecommunications network that communicate and work in concert to route the collaboration conference communications. For example is a block diagram of a plurality of central conferencing routing servers connected to a plurality of conference bridges over a telecommunications network. The plurality of CCRS devices may take many forms. For example the CCRS may be a plurality of application servers embodied on any number of telecommunication devices. In another example the various components that comprise the plurality of CCRS in the network may be embodied on various such components. In general the CCRS system of a telecommunications network may include any number of CCRS that operate in concert within a telecommunications network to provide the features and functionalities described herein.

The embodiment of the network of includes three CCRS . However any number of CCRS may be present in the network to perform the operations described herein. Also as mentioned above the CCRS may be in different telecommunication devices in the same telecommunication devices or may be spread at a component level among several telecommunication devices. As used here however the CCRS are discussed as being separate CCRS devices although any of the above described embodiments of the CCRS system are contemplated to provide the various features of the CCRS system described herein.

In one embodiment the CCRS may be located in different geographic locations such that CCRS A may be located in Denver Colo. CCRS B may be located in Minneapolis Minn. and CCRS C may be located in London England for example. In general the CCRS of the system may be located in any geographic location the telecommunications network through which the CCRS operates is located. Further each CCRS of the system may communicate with the other CCRS devices within the system as shown in through CCRS communication lines . Through these CCRS communication lines the CORS can exchange information concerning the routing and handling of the collaboration conferences. The CORS communication lines may be included as a portion of or may be separate from the telecommunications network.

In addition each CORS may be connected to any number of conference bridges . The conference bridges are similar to the conference bridges described above with relation to . In general the conference bridges host collaboration conferences. Although five such conference bridges are shown in it is contemplated that any number of conference bridges may be connected to the plurality of CORS . Also although the system of is configured such that each CORS is connected to each conference bridge through CORS bridge communication lines the system may be configured differently such that each CORS is connected to any number of available conference bridges including being connected to none of the available conference bridges. As should be appreciated the CORS bridge communication lines may occur over a telecommunications network as described in relation to above.

As explained above with reference to during operation the CCRS system receives a request to join or initiate a collaboration conference from a requestor. If a collaboration conference is in progress the receiving CCRS can access its database to determine that the collaboration conference is in progress and route the request to join to the proper conference bridge that is hosting the collaboration conference. However if the request is to establish a new collaboration conference the CCRS system can determine which conference bridge to host to the conference. To avoid having the multiple CCRS devices determining where a particular collaboration conference is hosted the CCRS system may designate one CCRS as the master CCRS. In particular the CCRS system can designate a CCRS to execute a master control system program that is tasked by the system to determine a conference bridge for all requests for new collaboration conferences. In one embodiment any one of the CCRS of the system can be designated as the master control system or master CCRS. Thus while each CCRS has the capability to operate as the master control engine for the system only one CCRS executes the master control engine program at any one time. Through the master control engine program any one of the CCRS devices can route a request to join an existing collaboration conference once the conference is established but only the master control engine or master CCRS determines the hosting conference bridge for a request for a new collaboration conference.

To begin the process of determining which CCRS of the system is designated as the master control engine each CCRS may perform the operations of the flowchart of to gather information about the system configuration. This gathered information may then be utilized by the system to determine which CCRS is the master CCRS tasked to determine the hosting conference bridge for a particular request for a new collaboration conference.

Beginning in operation each CCRS determines the identifier or ID number associated with the CCRS. In general the telecommunications network in which the CCRS system is incorporated may assign an ID number or other identifier to each CCRS in the system. In one example the ID number is associated with the CCRS during provisioning of the CCRS device by a network administrator or technician such as upon installation of the CCRS into the network. Further the ID number may be associated with CCRS in such a manner as to provide a preference to a particular CCRS or control engine of the CCRS that is designated as the master CCRS or master control engine. The manner through which the ID number is used to determine which CCRS is tasked as the master control engine is discussed in more detail below with reference to .

Continuing to operation each CCRS of the system determines the number of conference bridges to which the particular CCRS is connected. For example as shown in CCRS A is connected to and can communicate with each of conference bridge A through conference bridge E . Such connections between a CCRS device and a conference bridge are referred to herein as the locally connected or local conference bridges to each CCRS. Thus CCRS A determines in operation that it is locally connected to five conference bridges over communication lines . The same operation is performed by CCRS B and CCRS C each determining that they are also connected to five conference bridges. The number of determined local connections provides the system with a manner to determine which CCRS device communicates with the most number of conference bridges making the master control engine designation the most effective.

Continuing to operations and each CCRS also determines the total number of conference bridges locally connected to all of the CCRS in the system . In particular each CCRS receives the number of locally connected conference bridges determined in operation . To receive this information each CCRS in the system broadcasts their locally connected conference bridges to the other CCRS devices in the system . Thus continuing the example above CCRS A broadcasts over communication lines to CCRS B and CCRS C that CCRS A is connected to five conference bridges. Similarly CCRS B broadcasts to CCRS A and CCRS C that CCRS B is also connected to five conference bridges and CCRS C broadcasts to CCRS A and CCRS B that CCRS C is connected to five conference bridges. In operation each CCRS receives these broadcasts and stores the information in the related database for use in operation .

With the information received in operation each CCRS calculates the total number of conference bridges connected to all of the CCRS in the system in operation . Thus because each of the CCRS in the example of is connected to five conference bridges each CCRS calculates the total number of locally connected bridges to be fifteen 15 as CCRS A is connected to five conference bridges CCRS B is also connected to five conference bridges and CCRS C is also connected to five conference bridges. This information is also stored in the database for use by the CCRS system .

With the information obtained through the operations of the CCRS system can determine which CCRS is tasked as the master control engine through the method of the flowchart of . In particular the telecommunications network or one or more components associated with or a part of the CCRS system of performs the operations of to determine which CCRS is the master control engine for determining which conference bridge of the system hosts a collaboration conference.

Beginning in operation the CCRS system determines if the calculated sum of local bridges across all of the CCRS of the system is equal as calculated by each CCRS. This number is determined in operation of the flowchart of discussed above. Thus in the example given above each of the CCRS in the system calculated a total number of 15 locally connected bridges for all of the CCRS in the system. Thus in operation the system would determine that the calculated sum of local bridges across all of the CCRS of the system is calculated equally by each of the CCRS. However in some circumstances at least one CCRS may calculate a different total number of locally connected bridges for each CCRS. For example a CCRS system is shown in that is similar to the system of . However in the example system shown in CCRS communication line is faulty or malfunctioning such that CCRS C cannot communicate with CCRS B . Thus in this example CCRS B would not have received the broadcast from CCRS C of the number of locally connected conference bridges connected to CCRS C. Thus CCRS B calculates the total number of connected bridges as ten five bridges connected to CCRS A and five bridges connected to CCRS B . However CCRS A would continue to calculate the total number of connected bridges as 15 as it receives the broadcast from each other CCRS device. Thus in this example not all of the CCRS would calculate the same total of connected bridges across all of the CCRS.

If the system determines that not all of the CCRS calculated the same total number of connected bridges the system would then determine in operation if only one of the control engines of the CCRS has the highest calculated total of connected bridges. For example due to communication problems between the CCRS devices in the system more than one CCRS or control engine may calculate the largest total number of conference bridges connected to all of the CCRS devices in the system. This is the case illustrated in where CCRS A calculates 15 total bridge connections five each from CCRS A CCRS B and CCRS C while CCRS B calculates ten total bridge connections five from CCRS A and five from CCRS B and CCRS C similarly calculates ten total bridge connections five from CCRS A and five from CCRS C . If only one CCRS calculates the highest number of total connected conference bridges the system would select the CCRS that calculates the largest sum of connected bridges as seen by all CCRS devices as the master control engine to select which conference bridge hosts requests for a collaboration conference in operation .

Returning to operation if the system determines that more than one control engine has calculated the highest sum of connected bridges the system performs operation and removes from consideration for master control engine status all control engines of CCRS except those that calculated the highest total number. For example in a system including twenty conference bridges and three CCRS devices several CCRS devices may calculate a total of sixty conference bridge connections while others may calculate fewer than sixty if there is a faulty connection in the system. In this example each of the CCRS devices that calculate the total number of connections of less than sixty is removed from consideration for master control engine status in operation . However each CCRS that calculates the highest number would remain in consideration for master control engine status. Upon removal of those CCRS devices or control engines in operation the system proceeds on to operation . Similarly if the system determines in operation that the calculated sum of connected bridges for all CCRS devices is equal the system performs operation .

Operations are similar to operations described above. However in these operations the CCRS system analyzes the number of locally connected conference bridges to each CCRS device individually. Thus in operation the CCRS system determines if the number of locally connected conference bridge to each CCRS device is the same across all of the CCRS devices. In particular referring once again to the example of CCRS A is connected to five conference bridges CCRS B is also connected to five conference bridges and CCRS C is connected to five conference bridges. Thus in this example each CCRS device is connected to the same number of conference bridges through CCRS bridge communication lines . As shown in the flowchart of in such a case the CCRS system would proceed to operation described in more detail below.

Another example is illustrated in however. is a CCRS system that is similar to the system of . However in the example system shown in communication line between CCRS C and conference bridge E is faulty or malfunctioning such that CCRS C cannot communicate with conference bridge E. Thus in this example CCRS C communicates only with conference bridges A D . As a result the number of locally connected conference bridges for CCRS C is four while both CCRS A and CCRS B are locally connected to five conference bridges. Thus returning to operation of the CCRS system would determine that not all CCRS devices in the CCRS system have the same number of locally connected conference bridges in this example. In such cases the CCRS system may then proceed to operation .

Similar to operation described above if the system determines that not all of the CCRS have the same number of locally connected bridges the system would then determine in operation if only one of the control engines of the CCRS has the highest number of locally connected bridges. For example due to communication problems between the CCRS devices and the conference bridges more than one CCRS or control engine may calculate a larger number of locally connected conference bridges connected to the CCRS devices in the system. This is the case illustrated in where CCRS A and CCRS B are connected to five conference bridges conference bridges A E while CCRS C is connected to four conference bridges conference bridges A D . However if only one CCRS device has the highest number of locally connected conference bridges connected to it the CCRS system sets the control engine associated with that CCRS as the master control engine in operation . The master control engine is then tasked with determining which conference bridge hosts collaboration conference requests.

Returning to operation if the system determines that more than one control engine has the highest number of locally connected bridges the system performs operation and removes from consideration for master control engine status all control engines of CCRS except those that calculated the highest number of locally connected bridges. Thus in the example of CCRS C would be removed from consideration as the number of locally connected conference bridges is four and the number of locally connected bridges for CCRS A and CCRS B is five. Upon removal of those CCRS devices or control engines in operation the system proceeds on to operation .

In operation the CCRS system sets the master control engine as the remaining CCRS with the lowest ID number. As mentioned above each CCRS in a CCRS system is assigned an ID number. Thus in operation the ID number is utilized by the system to select a control engine as the master control engine from the remaining CCRS. In another embodiment the master control engine may be set as the control engine or CCRS with the highest ID number. In this manner a selection hierarchy of the CCRS devices may be established through the ID numbers if each CCRS device includes the same number of connections to the conference bridges. The hierarchy of CCRS devices may be set through the ID numbers for any reasons related to the network. For example the hierarchy may provide a preference to a master control engine that is geographically closer to the headquarters of the administrator of the telecommunications network. In another example the hierarchy may provide a preference to a master control engine that is logically central to the telecommunications network to reduce transmission times through the network from the master CCRS. In general the hierarchy may be established through the CCRS ID numbers for any reason related to the operation of the network.

In general and illustrated through the flowchart of the master control engine is selected based on three criteria in a particular order 1 the calculated sum of all connected bridges seen by all of the CCRS devices 2 the number of locally connected conference bridges for each individual CCRS devices and 3 the ID number associated with each CCRS device. The CCRS system uses the above criteria to determine the integrity of the connections within the system and if all connections within the system are functioning properly the master control engine is determined through the ID number. As should be appreciated each CCRS includes a database that stores any information needed for the above determinations as well as one or more applications to perform the selection of the master control engine or to perform the operations of the master control engine. In addition one or more safeguards may be implemented in the CCRS system that prevents the master control engine from bouncing between two or more CCRS devices. For example a delay may be incorporated that delays the switching of the master control engine from one CCRS to another to prevent frequent skipping of the master control engine status and allow the master control engine selection process be stable.

Once it is determined which of the CCRS devices is tasked as the master control engine the CCRS system may begin routing requests for collaboration conferences to a connected conference bridge. In particular CCRS system and or the various components of a CCRS system may perform one or more of the operations illustrated in the flowchart of to connect all requests to join an existing collaboration conference or initiate a new collaboration conference on a conference bridge.

The method of begins in operation when a CCRS device of the CCRS system receives a request to join or initiate a collaboration conference from a requestor. In general any CCRS device of the system may receive the request to join or initiate a collaboration conference from a requestor to the telecommunications network. Upon receipt the CCRS may execute an application that checks the database of the CCRS to determine whether the requested conference is active in operation . In addition to indicating that the collaboration conference is active the database for the receiving CCRS may also indicate the particular conference bridge hosting the collaboration conference. In the case when a collaboration conference is active and the conference bridge is known the receiving CCRS routes the request to join the collaboration conference to the appropriate conference bridge such that the requestor then joins the conference.

However in some circumstances such as when initiating a collaboration conference the receiving CCRS checks the database and determines that the requested collaboration conference is not active. In this case the CCRS then accesses the database to determine the identity of the CCRS device running the master control engine or otherwise acting as the master controller which in one embodiment could be the same CCRS as the receiving CCRS and in operation routes the request to the master control engine for further processing.

In general operations through are performed by the receiving CCRS while operations through of are performed by the CCRS running the master control engine. However in some embodiments the receiving CCRS and the master control engine CCRS are the same device such that one CCRS performs all of the operations of .

In operation the master control engine determines which bridge will host the requested collaboration conference. In general the master control engine may use any information available or method to determine which bridge hosts a requested collaboration conference. For example the master control engine may consult a priority table or list to determine which conference bridge will host the collaboration conference. The information or data within the priority table may be stored in the databases of the respective CCRS devices. In general the priority list is associated to each account of the network a customer number or other identifier of a requester and the priority list identifies one or more conference bridges that may host a collaboration conference and a priority associated with each conference bridge. For example the priority list for one customer may include three conference bridges ranked in order by the highest priority to the lower priority. In some embodiments a plurality of conference bridges may be grouped into a single priority group. Upon receipt of a request for a collaboration conference the master control engine may identify the requester access the priority list associated with the requester and select a conference bridge based on the priority list. As discussed in more detail below the priority of the conference bridges for any requester may be based on several criteria including geographic location and technical features of the conference bridges. The operation of the load balancing and priority routing in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 678 titled LOAD BALANCING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

In one example of such criteria one or more conference bridges may be assigned a higher priority based on the geographical location of the conference bridge. For various reasons a conference bridge located in a particular area may be preferable for hosting a collaboration conference from a particular requester. For example a conference bridge located nearer the requester may be preferable to one located a far distance. In this situation the priority list for that requester may be updated or created to provide priority to the conference bridge near the requester such that upon determining which conference bridge to host the collaboration conference the control state engine may first consider the higher prioritized bridge.

Similarly a higher priority may be given to a conference bridge that provides additionally requested features for the collaboration conference. For example the requester may request the conference occur in wideband audio or other features that require an IP based conference bridge. In this situation an IP based conference bridge may be given a higher priority than non IP based conference bridges in an attempt to meet the requests of the requester. Other priority criteria may be the size or other network requirements of the conference. For example a requester may routinely request a high volume conference such that the CCRS may associate a conference bridge that handles larger conferences conferences with more participants a higher priority for that particular requester. In general however any information or criteria may be considered when the master control engine prepares the priority list associated with a requester.

Once the conference bridge is selected by the master control engine in operation the master control engine instructs an application server of the master CCRS to transmit a request to the selected conference bridge in operation . In one embodiment described above the application server routes the conference request to a conference bridge by requesting the conference bridge for an available port on the bridge. If the conference request is a request to establish a collaboration conference the request may be for a plurality of available ports to host the conference. The allocation of available ports associated with the conference bridge may be handled by a request from the CCRS or by a control server associated with the conference bridge. In either case available ports of the conference bridge may be made available in response to the conference request. In other embodiments selection of a conference bridge may be accomplished using domain name system DNS resolution techniques such as round robin selection or intelligent algorithms that account for location and or proximity considerations e.g. Anycast load on the bridges popularity or any other known policy. Such techniques may either replace or supplement the routing protocols as part of the conference bridge selection process.

Also in operation the master control engine sets the status of the collaboration conference to a temporary or temp status. This state is stored in the database of the CCRS device that is tasked as the master control engine. In general a collaboration conference can be designated as having several states including active temp ended and unknown . As discussed above an active state indicates that the collaboration conference is established on a conference bridge. A temp state indicates that a request for a collaboration conference has been received by the master control engine and the master control engine is attempting to establish the collaboration conference on a conference bridge. An ended state indicates that a collaboration conference has ended but provides a small window of time to allow the conferencing system to completing the conference session. An unknown status is set when a collaboration conference is interrupted by a failure at the conference bridge. Although only four states are discussed herein it should be appreciated that any number of states may be applied to a collaboration conference to aid the CCRS system in maintaining and tracking the various collaboration conferences performed through the network.

As mentioned the master control engine sets the state of the requested collaboration conference to a temp state in operation . While the collaboration conference is in the temp state any additional requests to join and the original request to initiate the particular collaboration conference are held until an acknowledgement from the selected conference bridge is received. Thus in operation the master CCRS receives an acknowledgement message from the selected conference bridge that the requested ports are available indicating that the requested ports for hosting a collaboration conference are available on the selected conference bridge.

In response the application server of the master CCRS routes the request for the collaboration conference to the selected bridge in operation . In addition the application server can route any additional requests that may have arrived at the master control engine CCRS device while the collaboration conference was in a temp state. Also in operation the master control engine sets the state of the collaboration conference to active . This active status may also be provided to the other CCRS devices in the CCRS system so that those CCRS devices become aware of the active conference. In one embodiment the CCRS devices receive the active status of any collaboration conference through the connection to the conference bridge hosting the conference. In another embodiment the active status and the hosting conference bridge of the collaboration conference may be broadcast to the other CCRS devices in the CCRS system for storage in each CCRS database. Thus when additional requests are made to join the collaboration conference the receiving CCRS does not need to refer the request to the master control engine for routing. Rather the receiving CCRS can check the database and determine that the requested collaboration conference is active and on which conference bridge the conference is hosted. This also relieves the master control engine to route other collaboration conferencing initialization requests.

Another advantage that the CCRS system provides includes the situation when a conference bridge is placed offline or suffers a failure. For example a scheduled maintenance on one of the conference bridges may be desired by a network administrator. Thus conferences currently being hosted on the conference bridge for repair may be maintained by the conference bridge until completion but new conferences may be directed to other conference bridges in an effort to remove the conferences from the selected conference bridge. To accomplish this the CCRS may remove the failing or scheduled for repair conference bridge from the priority lists for each requester. Thus when a request is received to begin a new collaboration conference and the CCRS consults the priority list for the requester the failing or scheduled for repair bridge is not an available option. However the CCRS devices may continue to direct requests for ongoing conferences to the proper conference bridge as the state of the collaboration conference remains active until termination of the conference. The operation of disaster recovery in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 689 titled DISASTER RECOVERY WITH A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The CCRS may perform a similar operation when a conference bridge enters a failure state. In this situation the failed bridge may be removed from the priority list for each requester. In addition all requests received by the CCRS to join an existing conference may be sent to another conference bridge. However this may create a situation where a conference is split between two conference bridges. In this situation the CCRS may generate a notice to a network administrator of the potential for a split conference so that the administrator may direct each participant of the split conference to a single operating conference bridge. In some embodiments the recovery of a split conference into a united conference may be performed automatically by the CCRS upon detection. In addition upon bringing the failed bridge back online the CCRS may throttle the conferences placed on the bridge to prevent an overload of the bridge.

The CCRS includes other features that may aid the network in transmitting collaboration conferences. For example one embodiment of the CCRS may route an internet or web connection that is associated with the collaboration conference to the same conference bridge that hosts the conference to maintain continuity between the related web application and the conference. Another example may include a conference lingering feature that maintains the status of each conference in the state engines for a specified amount of time to allow any changes or alterations to the requesters account to propagate to each conference bridge and state engine associated with the CCRS. Additionally the CCRS may be configured to collect information about the conferences and store this information for analyze or use by the network and or administrators of the network. For example information on the number of participants associated with any conference may be maintained for future analysis to differentiate large conference users for future routing decisions.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include various steps which are described in this specification. The steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. Various modifications and alterations to the described embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings herein. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous systems arrangements and methods which although not explicitly shown or described herein embody the principles of the invention and are thus within the spirit and scope of the present invention. From the above description and drawings it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular embodiments shown and described are for purposes of illustrations only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. References to details of particular embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

