---

title: Custom electronic program guides
abstract: Custom electronic program guides are disclosed. An example method includes collecting identifying information associated with media using at least one of a microphone or camera of a consumer electronics device, determining a characteristic of the consumer electronics device, the characteristic being at least one of a length of time during which the identifying information was collected, a percentage of the identifying information corresponding to a same program, or a geographic location at which the identifying information was collected, and determining, based on the characteristic, whether the collected identifying information is to be used in generating a custom electronic program guide for a user associated with the consumer electronics device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09215489&OS=09215489&RS=09215489
owner: The Nielson Company (US), LLC
number: 09215489
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This disclosure relates generally to media and more particularly to custom electronic program guides.

Media delivery systems typically provide information to users regarding media to be delivered to devices associated with the users. In some instances media delivery systems convey information e.g. presentation times descriptions parental rating guides PG R etc. etc. regarding upcoming programming via a program guide. Program guides typically include e.g. in a grid a list of channels and corresponding media to be provided via the channels at different times. Such a program guide may be presented to the users electronically.

Media consumers use electronic program guides to identify upcoming air times and channel locations of media e.g. television programs motion pictures internet videos radio programs etc. and or to identify media of interest for immediate viewing.

Example methods and apparatus disclosed herein are used to collect media identifying information indicative of media presented by a consumer electronics device e.g. a mobile device e.g. a cellular phone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA tablet computer remote control etc. a computer a set top box STB a digital video recorder DVR a television a stereo a home automation system etc. . The identifying information identifies media e.g. television programming radio programming internet programming etc. and is used to generate a custom electronic program guide. Some such example methods and apparatus are implemented using portable metering technology. In some examples the portable metering technology is implemented by a dedicated audience measurement meter. In other examples the portable metering technology is implemented by a software meter installed on a consumer electronics device. In some examples the consumer electronics device is portable.

In some examples the meter collects identifying information e.g. metadata signatures codes and or watermarks associated with media received by a microphone camera and or other sensor e.g. optical infrared etc. . The received media may be presented by one or more media presentation device s e.g. a television a computer a radio a stereo etc. in proximity to the meter. Any type of media presentation device s may be metered. Such presentation devices may receive the media via any type of distribution medium such as for example cable satellite Internet and or over the air distribution mediums. In some examples such as when a dedicated portable meter is employed or when a consumer electronics device having a meter is to be carried by a specific individual e.g. a mobile phone with an installed meter the meter is assigned to a particular audience member participating in a market research study. In such instances the metering device stores a unique audience member identifier corresponding to its respective audience member e.g. a participant and or panelist number personal name family name family position e.g. father mother brother etc. a proxy assigned to a member of the monitored household etc. .

In the illustrated example of the meter the television and or the STB communicate with a central data facility via a network e.g. the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN cellular network etc. . The central data facility of the illustrated example includes a server and a database . In the illustrated example communication via the network may be performed through wireless and or wired communication link s .

In the illustrated example of the meter receives audio and or video presented via for example the television and or other media presentation device s . In the illustrated example the meter accesses the audio and or video of presented media to obtain media identifying information. The meter may collected the identifying information using any desired techniques. For example the media may be collected by for example listening for audio presented within the environment with a microphone and or by capturing images of the video presented on the presentation device s . Alternatively the media may be collected via a wired connection. Further the obtained media may be examined for metadata identifying the media may be decoded for embedded codes e.g. watermarks may be processed to generate a signature etc. As used herein a signature is a representation of some preferably unique portion of the media or the signal used to transport the media. As used herein a code is data added to the signal for the purpose of identifying the corresponding media and or for another purpose such as tuning e.g. a packet identifier used in tuning digital television . The codes may for example be embedded in video in audio or in a data stream communicated with the audio video. In some examples the codes are embedded so as to be electronically detected but not easily detected by unaided human senses. The Nielsen NAES codes carried by many television programs broadcast in the United States are an example of such codes.

In some examples the media is identified by collecting tuning information e.g. channel numbers and timestamps to enable cross referencing of a broadcast program schedule. In some such examples the tuning information is obtained by intercepting tuning commands from a remote control.

In the illustrated example of the meter collects identifying information using a microphone. In other examples a camera and or other sensor e.g. audio optical infrared etc. is used. In the example of the microphone receives audio signals which may be embedded with codes. In other examples a camera captures video and or images which may be embedded with codes displayed on the television .

In the illustrated example of the meter periodically or aperiodically uploads the identifying information e.g. collected signatures codes channel numbers etc. to the central data facility . For example after the meter collects identifying information associated with media for a certain period of time e.g. fifteen minutes the meter sends the identifying information to the central data facility . In some examples rather than storing the data for period uploads the meter continuously or substantially continuously i.e. whenever the ability to upload is present uploads the identifying information to the central data facility . For example the meter uploads the identifying information for a first program presented on a television tuned to a given channel at substantially the same time the program is presented and continues to upload identifying information associated with the tuned program s in substantial real time. In examples when a second program is tuned i.e. the channel is changed the meter monitors the time of exposure for both programs until it determines that the collected identifying information or a threshold percentage of the collected identifying information has been associated with the second program for a certain period of time e.g. three minutes . At that point the meter ceases to accrue time of exposure to the first program but continues to accrue the time of exposure to the second program.

In the example of the example server of the central data facility processes the identifying information and retrieves program information associated with the identifying information from the database . The program information may include program schedules program descriptions and or data identifying similar and or related programs etc. The example server sends the requested program information back to the meter via the network . In some examples the meter presents the program information on a display of the meter or a media presentation device e.g. the television associated with the meter each time program information associated with uploaded identifying information is received.

In some examples the central data facility provides updates to the meter and or media presentation device s of the media exposure environment e.g. the television and or the STB via the network . The updates may include program information to be stored on the meter and or a consumer electronics device associated with the meter . In some examples the meter cross references the identifying information to the program information e.g. program schedules program descriptions program information of similar and or related programs etc. stored in a storage device e.g. program database accessible by the meter . In some examples the meter cross references the identifying information to the program information stored on accessible media presentation devices e.g. in a DVR via the network e.g. a LAN .

In the illustrated example of the information presentation device is implemented by a television and an audience member views a television program on the television . In this example the television program is tuned via the STB . In the illustrated example the meter is implemented by software executed on a portable consumer electronics device such as a mobile phone. The consumer electronics device has multiple functions that may be accessed by a user. In the illustrated example the audience member sets the consumer electronics device to a listen mode during which time the meter receives audio presented within the home of the audience member via a microphone. The consumer electronics device meter analyzes the collected audio to gather identifying information. For example the meter may collect tuning information collect watermarks if present and or generate signatures. The collected identifying information may be used to identify the media locally at the meter see U.S. Pat. No. 9 106 953 and or the data may be exported to the central data facility for media identification. Regardless of where the media identification occurs if the same media is presented for a sufficient time period e.g. a threshold such as 10 minutes the television program is potentially media to be added to a personal television guide e.g. an electronic program guide EPG for the audience member . In some examples the consumer electronics device meter prompts the audience member for authorization to add the media to the personalized EPG through an alarm. In some examples the meter or the central data facility determines a location where the exposure occurred e.g. via a global positioning system GPS associated with the meter and makes a determination to add or not add the media and or to prompt or not prompt the audience member for authorization to add the media to the personalized EPG based on the location.

In some examples the meter sends the identifying information and a request for the program information to the central data facility via the network . In some examples the meter sends the corresponding geographic location of the meter along with the request. In some such examples the central data facility sends a response message including the program information e.g. the program name program schedule information program description program information of similar and or related programs etc. via the network to the meter . In some examples the program information is localized based on the geographic information e.g. limited to a schedule for local channels related local programming etc. . The meter of the illustrated example renders the program information in a custom television program guide to be displayed to the user e.g. via a consumer electronics device associated with the meter . In some examples the meter forwards the program guide data e.g. via a Bluetooth connection via a home network via the network etc. to the STB and or the television to be rendered and displayed on the television and or another media presentation device.

In some examples the central data facility uses the identifying information received from the meter to track the programs detected by the meter . The server of the central data facility is able to process data representative of the programs detected by the meter and other similar consumer electronics devices meters to estimate a viewing audience for the corresponding program. To this end the meter may collect audience identification information identifying persons in the environment . The audience identification information may be collected by the audience member to self identify e.g. by inputting their name or other identifier and or by any automatic identification methods. In examples where the meter is assigned to a specific individual all media exposure data to be credited is credited to that particular user. To support the development of exposure and or popularity ratings the audience members may be persons who have agreed to be monitored e.g. panelists . Such panelists may be statistically selected to represent population s of interest. Panelists provide accurate and detailed demographic information during a registration process conducted by an audience measurement entity and or a panelist recruitment entity which enables projecting the media exposure behavior of the panelist s to one or more populations e.g. demographic segments of interest.

In the illustrated example of the example antenna facilitates wireless communication with an example network e.g. the network . In some examples the data port facilitates wired communication e.g. USB universal serial bus etc. with other devices e.g. a personal computer the television the STB etc. .

The example controller of facilitates control of the consumer electronics device by analyzing data received from the antenna the data port and or the user interface . The user interface may include any of or all of a touchscreen display keyboard mouse etc. of the consumer electronics device . Furthermore the controller of the illustrated example controls the microphone and or the camera to collect data. In some examples when the program guide meter is activated e.g. by instructions from the user interface the controller instructs the microphone and or the camera to send the collected audio and or video images respectively to the program guide meter .

In the illustrated example of the collector of the program guide meter identifies and collects identifying information e.g. samples of audio and or video watermarks digital signatures codes etc. from the audio collected by the microphone and or the images collected by the camera . In some examples the collector processes the received audio signal and or images to determine the identifying information. The collector of the illustrated example forwards the identifying information to the selector .

In some examples program information e.g. a program name character being displayed on the screen broadcast channel and or time of the program game time of a sporting event etc. identified based on the collected identifying information may be displayed via the user interface . The displayed information need not be for a currently tuned program but may instead be for an upcoming program or past program. In the illustrated example a database e.g. the databases stores identifying information in association with corresponding program information. The controller of the illustrated example identifies the program associated with the identifying information and retrieves the corresponding program information from the database. In some examples the collector timestamps the identifying information as it is collected.

The example monitor of the program guide meter of monitors characteristics of the consumer electronics device while the collector identifies and or processes identifying information. In some examples the characteristics of the consumer electronics device include at least a length of time it collects identifying information associated with a program or a location. The example monitor of monitors the length of time the collector collects identifying information using the timer of the consumer electronics device . The example monitor of monitors the geographic location of the consumer electronics device using a global positioning system GPS receiver of the consumer electronics device . In some examples the monitor determines a geographic location of the consumer electronics device based on the location of a wireless access point base station etc. in communication with the consumer electronics device . The monitor of the illustrated example provides the characteristics of the consumer electronics device to the selector . The selector as described below in further detail with respect to determines when a program being viewed is eligible for use in a custom electronic program guide. The selector notifies the controller once the program is eligible for use in the custom electronic program guide and provides the controller the identifying information. In some examples the selector and or the controller is partially or entirely located in the central data facility .

In the illustrated example of when the selector notifies the controller that a program or other media is eligible to be added to the custom electronic program guide e.g. because the program or other media has been presented for more than a threshold period of time e.g. longer than three minutes etc. the controller determines whether or not to add program information associated with identifying information to the custom television guide. In some examples the controller automatically determines whether or not to add the program based on user and or default settings for the custom television guide. In some examples the settings for automatically adding the program to the custom EPG include one or more of the channel airing the program the location where the program is identified the type of program e.g. first aired rerun live etc. the time of day that the program is identified and or the length of time that the program has been exposed to the consumer electronics device . In some examples the controller prompts the user via the user interface to request authorization for the addition of the program to the electronic program guide. In some examples the controller requests program information from a central data facility and or the program database based on the identifying information prior to prompting the user. In some such examples the controller includes the program information e.g. the program name program schedule etc. in the prompt.

The example controller of sends a request for program information associated with the identifying information via the data port to the central data facility of . The central data facility cross references the identifying information to program information stored in a database e.g. the database and responds with corresponding program information associated with the identifying information. In some examples the controller retrieves the corresponding program information from the program database by cross referencing the identifying information to program information stored in the database . The data in the program database may be for example cached signatures as detailed in U.S. Pat. No. 9 106 953 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Upon receipt of the program information the controller forwards the program information data to the program guide generator to generate the custom television guide.

In some examples the controller of sends demographic profile information of the user associated with consumer electronics device along with the identifying information for use in audience measurement. In the illustrated example the demographic profile information is stored at the central data facility in association with identifier s of the audience member s to facilitate audience measurement. The demographic profile information is used by the central data facility to generate estimates of the demographic composition of the audience and or subset s of the audience viewing the media associated with the identifying information.

In the illustrated example of the program guide generator generates a custom electronic program guide EPG for a user e.g. the audience member . The EPG may be for any type of media such as television radio streaming Internet media etc. In some examples the program guide generator receives instructions based on user input from the user interface and or the program guide meter for use in generating the custom EPG. In some examples the controller instructs the program guide generator to include program information received from the central data facility and or stored in the program database in the EPG. In some examples the program guide generator generates the program guide using metadata stored in the program database and or by adding the program information to a previously stored EPG in the program database . Accordingly the custom EPG for the example user s of the consumer electronics device includes newly received program information and previously selected or viewed program information that has already been included in a prior version of the user s custom EPG. In some examples the program guide generator stores the generated EPG in the program database.

In the illustrated example an example user e.g. the audience member can manually add program s to the custom EPG. The user may enter a request to search for program s of interest via the user interface . In response the example controller of searches for the requested program and associated program information within the program database and or sends a request to a website e.g. a website hosted by the central data facility for program information associated with the media. After the controller of the illustrated example receives the requested program information the controller instructs the program guide generator to add the requested program information to the custom EPG for the user.

In the illustrated example the user interface renders the generated EPG for display to the user e.g. via a display or touchscreen . In some examples the controller forwards the generated EPG to one or more media presentation device s e.g. the television the STB etc. for display.

The program database of the illustrated example stores program information e.g. program information received from the example central data facility . The stored program information may include media name s media description s media schedule s identification of similar and or related media and their corresponding program information etc. In some examples the program information in the program database is stored in association with identifying information to facilitate local identification of media by the program guide meter . In some examples the program information is stored with corresponding identifying information e.g. watermarks digital signatures channel numbers timestamps etc. associated with the program information. Although the program guide database is shown within the consumer electronics device in in some examples the program database is partially or entirely located in a storage device external to the consumer electronics device e.g. in the database of the central data facility in a media presentation device etc. .

While an example manner of implementing the meter consumer electronics device of has been illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example controller the example program guide meter the example collector the example monitor the example selector the example user interface the example program guide generator the example program database the example timer the example GPS receiver and or more generally the example meter and or consumer electronics device of and or may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example controller the example program guide meter the example collector the example monitor the example selector the example user interface the example program guide generator the example program database the example timer the example GPS receiver and or more generally the example meter and or consumer electronics device could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example controller the example program guide meter the example collector the example monitor the example selector the example user interface the example program guide generator the example program database the example timer and or the example GPS receiver are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example meter and or consumer electronics device of and or may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

In the illustrated example of the selector receives identifying information from the collector of and the monitor . Upon receipt of the identifying information from the collector the new program analyzer determines whether the identifying information is associated with program information currently provided in a custom EPG. The new program analyzer of the illustrated example cross references the identifying information with the custom EPG data stored in the program database . If the identifying information is associated with a program already included in the custom EPG then the selector determines that the identifying information does not need to be processed to add the program to the custom EPG. If the identifying information is not associated with a program already included in the custom EPG then the selector determines that the program associated with the identifying information is to be used in generating the custom EPG.

The example geographic location analyzer of analyzes whether a geographic location of the example consumer electronics device of associated with the collected identifying information meets a characteristic criterion. The geographic location characteristic is used to determine whether a program associated with the identifying information is to be included in a custom EPG. The geographic location characteristic may be based on a user input from the user interface and or based on a default setting. One or more criteria and or threshold s for the geographic location characteristic may be stored in the characteristic threshold database and may be altered by the user via the example user interface. In some examples any program s identified in designated area s e.g. a home location see example of are used in the custom EPG. The designated location s are defined by the geographic location characteristic criteria. If the consumer electronics device is located within a designated area as defined by the geographic location characteristic criteria then the program is eligible for use in generating the custom EPG. In some examples if the example consumer electronics device is outside of the designated area the selector of determines that the program associated with the identifying information is not to be included in the custom EPG. In some examples the user is prompted to authorize use of the identifying information when the geographic location is outside of the designated area and or the user is not prompted to authorize the use when the geographic location is within the designated area.

The example geographic location analyzer of receives location information from the example monitor corresponding to the time period during which the identifying information was collected. The geographic location analyzer of the illustrated example cross references the location of the consumer electronics device with the geographic location characteristic criteria in the characteristic threshold database . If the consumer electronics device is located within an area specified by the geographic location characteristic criteria then the geographic location analyzer determines that the threshold is met and the program associated with the collected identifying information is eligible to be used in generating the custom EPG.

The example time period analyzer of analyzes whether a time period characteristic threshold consumer electronics device associated with collecting identifying information is met. The time period characteristic is used in the illustrated example to determine whether a program associated with the identifying information is eligible to be used in a custom EPG. The time period characteristic threshold may be set based on a user input from the example user interface and or based on a default setting. One or more time period characteristic threshold s may be stored in the characteristic threshold database . If the consumer electronics device has been exposed to a program for at least a time period e.g. thirty seconds 1 minute five minutes fifteen minutes etc. greater than the time period threshold then the program is eligible for use in generating the custom EPG. If the consumer electronics device has not been exposed to a program for at least the designated length of time then the example selector of determines that the program associated with the identifying information is not to be included the custom EPG. In detecting the duration of an exposure commercials may or may not be factored in for example an interruption of an exposure of less than two minutes may be ignored in detecting if the exposure meets the exposure threshold.

The time period analyzer of receives timing information from the example monitor and or timer corresponding to the time period during which the identifying information was collected by an example collector. The example timing information includes a length of time that the consumer electronics device is exposed to a program and or its associated advertisement s . The program s associated advertisement s of the illustrated example are associated with a program based on whether or not they air on the same channel before after and or between segments of the program. To determine the length of time the program is exposed to the consumer electronics device the example monitor determines the length of time identifying information corresponding to the program and or its advertisements is being collected. The timer is reset when the collector collects identifying information for a new program different from the example program and or its advertisements. If continuously received or a percentage of continuously received collected pieces of identifying information correspond to the same program and its associated advertisement s then the monitor continues the timer . In some examples the timer is allowed to run even if identifying information different from the program is detected e.g. during a commercial break for less than a set threshold period of time so that commercials news flashes channel surfing during commercials a mute during a phone call noise in the measurement and or other interruptions do not mask the fact that the program was substantially continuously watched. In the illustrated example if the monitor determines that one or more continuously collected piece s of identifying information e.g. one or more signatures watermarks etc. are not associated with a previously identified program then the timer is reset if such identifying information collected longer than the set threshold e.g. a time associated with a typical commercial break such as ninety seconds . The time period analyzer receives the length of time as measured by the timer from the monitor .

In some examples if a certain percentage of the collected identifying information during a time period e.g. a sliding window corresponds to the same program and or associated advertisement s then the time period analyzer determines that the time period characteristic threshold has been reached. In some examples the monitor keeps track of all collected pieces of identifying information for the threshold period of time. In some such examples the monitor identifies the programs exposed to the consumer electronics device during the threshold period of time. If a certain percentage e.g. 70 of the identifying information is related to the same program then the time period analyzer determines that the time period characteristic threshold has been met.

In some examples the monitor utilizes a sliding window of time and an identifying information threshold. For example if seventy percent 70 of the signatures and or watermarks collected during the example time period correspond to the same program then the monitor instructs the selector that the threshold has been met. Such examples allow for the time period characteristic threshold to be met despite interruptions in the viewing of the example program e.g. due to commercials brief channel surfing a mute etc. .

In some examples the time period analyzer of cross references the length of time the consumer electronics device has been either continuously or non continuously exposed to a program by tracking the length of time the consumer electronics device collector collects identifying information associated with the program to the time period characteristic threshold in the characteristic threshold database . If the consumer electronics device has been exposed to the program for at least the designated threshold of time then the selector of determines that the threshold is met and the program associated with the collected identifying information is to be included in the custom EPG.

While an example manner of implementing the selector of has been illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in and or may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example new program analyzer the example geographic location analyzer the example time period analyzer the example characteristic threshold database and or more generally the example selector of and or may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example new program analyzer the example geographic location analyzer the example time period analyzer the example characteristic threshold database and or more generally the example selector could be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the apparatus or system claims of this patent involving a program analyzer a geographic location analyzer or a time period analyzer are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example new program analyzer the example geographic location analyzer the example time period analyzer the example characteristic threshold database and or more generally the example selector are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example selector of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

A flowchart representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the consumer electronics device of and or and in particular the example controller the example program guide meter the example collector the example monitor the example selector the example user interface the example program guide generator the example timer and or the example GPS receiver of is shown in . A flowchart representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the selector of and or and in particular the example new program analyzer geographic analyzer and or time period analyzer is shown in . In these examples the machine readable instructions comprise a program for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example processor platform discussed below in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard drive a digital versatile disk DVD a Blu ray disk or a memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program is described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in and or many other methods of implementing the example consumer electronics device may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a compact disk CD a digital versatile disk DVD a cache a random access memory RAM and or any other storage medium in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage device and or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage medium in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage disk or storage device and to exclude propagating signals. As used herein when the phrase at least is used as the transition term in a preamble of a claim it is open ended in the same manner as the term comprising is open ended. Thus a claim using at least as the transition term in its preamble may include elements in addition to those expressly recited in the claim.

Example machine readable instructions that may be executed to implement the consumer electronics device of and or are represented by the flow chart shown in . At block example collector of example program guide meter determines whether the consumer electronics device has been exposed to media e.g. a television program radio program etc. based on whether the collector has identified and collected identifying information e.g. metadata signatures codes watermarks etc. in a media exposure environment. The collector collects the identifying information from at least one of audio video and or or image s captured by the microphone camera and or other sensors e.g. optical infrared etc. of the consumer electronics device . If the collector does not collect identifying information associated with identifiable media then the collector continues to monitor the audio video and or images exposed to the consumer electronics device at block . If the collector does collect identifying information control moves to block . In some examples the controller uses the identifying information to retrieve program information e.g. program name character name cast information episode information scene information etc. from the program database and or the central data facility database to display on the user interface of the consumer electronics device .

At block of the program guide meter via example selector determines whether the collected identifying information is associated with a program that is currently included in a custom EPG for the user. In the illustrated example the identifying information of program s that are included in the custom EPG are stored in example program database . At block the selector cross checks the program database to determine if the identifying information of the program is included in the custom EPG. In some examples the selector and or the controller cross check s the database at the central data facility of to determine whether the program associated with the collected identifying information is included in the custom EPG. In some such examples the controller crosschecks the database to identify the program and the selector crosschecks the program database to determine if the program is included in the custom EPG. In if the example selector determines that the collected identifying information is associated with a program included in the custom EPG then control moves to block . If the selector determines that the identifying information is not used in generating the custom EPG control moves to block .

An example implementation of the instruction blocks are illustrated within dashed block in are further described below with reference to .

At block of the selector identifies one or more consumer electronics device characteristic s used to determine whether the identified program is to be included in the custom EPG. In some examples the consumer electronics device characteristic s include one or more of a time period characteristic or a geographic location characteristic. At block the selector identifies the consumer electronics device characteristic s based on one or more of a default setting or a user selection.

At block of the selector receives the consumer electronics device characteristic s from the example monitor and cross references the consumer electronics device characteristic s to one or more designated threshold values and or other criteria stored in example characteristic threshold value database . In some examples a threshold value for a time characteristic is a time period and or length of time that the collector collects identifying information. In some examples a threshold value for a time characteristic is a percentage of the identifying information collected for a certain time period that is associated to the same program e.g. 75 of the identifying information collected in a 15 minute period corresponding to the program Love It or List It and the remaining percentage of the identifying information corresponds to commercials channel surfing etc. In some examples a designated geographic area e.g. measured by a distance such as a radius from a geographic location of interest may be used for a geographic location criterion e.g. see . In some examples the consumer electronics device characteristic thresholds and or criteria are assigned based on default settings. In some examples a user may adjust the device characteristic threshold values and or settings using the user interface . Once the selector determines whether the consumer electronics device characteristic s meet the characteristic threshold value s as further described herein with reference to control moves to block of .

At block of if the characteristic s of the consumer electronics device measured by the monitor do not meet the characteristic threshold value s and or criteria control moves to block . If the characteristic s of the consumer electronics device do meet the characteristic threshold value s and or criteria control moves to block .

At block of the meter identifies user authorization settings for collecting identifying information. The meter of the illustrated example determines whether to request a user for authorization to include the program associated with the collected identifying information in the custom EPG. In some examples the meter determines whether or not to prompt the user for authorization based on default settings and or user preferences. In some examples the prompting is performed via the user interface .

In some examples a user selects scenarios for when user authorization is to be requested by the consumer electronics device e.g. time s of day when the identifying information is collected one or more geographic location s where the identifying information is collected ratings information for program associated with identifying information etc. . In the illustrated example the meter determines whether the user is to be prompted for authorization based on the settings block . In some examples the user is prompted if the consumer electronics device is located at a geographic location outside of a designated area. If user authorization settings indicate that the user is to be prompted for authorization to use the identifying information in generating the custom EPG control moves to block . In if user authorization default settings and or preferences indicate that authorization is not to be requested from block control moves to block .

At block of the meter instructs the controller to prompt the user via the user interface to authorize the inclusion of the program associated with the collected identifying information in the custom EPG. In some examples the meter and or controller retrieves program information e.g. a program name program description etc. associated with the identifying information from the program database and or the database and displays the program information via the user interface along with the prompt for authorization.

In the example of after the controller prompts the user for authorization at block if the meter determines the user did not authorize the inclusion of the program associated with the collected identifying information in the custom EPG control moves to block . If the user does authorize including the program control moves to block .

At block of the illustrated example of the selector designates the collected identifying information to include the corresponding program in the custom electronic program guide. The selector forwards the identifying information to the program guide generator . Upon receipt of the designated identifying information the program guide generator cross references the collected identifying information with the program information in the program database . In some examples the program guide generator instructs the controller to retrieve program information associated with the identifying information from the database of the central data facility . The program guide generator updates the custom EPG to include the program information associated with the designated identifying information. For example the custom EPG may be updated to identify presentation time title rating and broadcast channel for the program.

At block the meter determines whether to continue collecting identifying information via the collector . If the consumer electronics device is to continue collecting identifying information control returns to block . If the consumer electronics device is to stop collecting identifying information the instructions end. In some examples the collector continues to collect identifying information until a user instructs the consumer electronics device via the user interface to end listening mode. In some examples the consumer electronics device stops collecting identifying information after a threshold period of time. In some examples the consumer electronics device stops collecting identifying information after determining the identifying information associated with the same program has been collected for a designated period of time. In such examples awakening may occur to restart data collection pursuant to the example of after another threshold period of time has passed.

At block of if the selector identifies that the consumer electronics device characteristic s criterion are both a time period characteristic and a geographic location characteristic then control moves to block . At block of the selector receives the geographic location from the GPS receiver identifying where the consumer electronics device collected identifying information. At block the selector also receives a length of time from the timer that the collector has been collecting the identifying information associated with an example program from an example monitor . In some examples the time period is not retrieved directly from the timer but instead is calculated based on timestamps associated with logged identifying information to specific time s of collection. In some examples the time period is retrieved from the timer and the timer is reset if identifying information that does not correspond to the program is detected for more than a threshold time period e.g. two minutes . In the illustrated example an example geographic location analyzer compares the received geographic location with the designated area s stored in the example characteristic threshold database . The example time period analyzer compares the received length of time with the time period threshold value stored in the characteristic threshold database .

At block of the illustrated example if the received geographic location is within a designated area then the geographic location analyzer determines that the geographic location threshold has been met. If the received length of time is greater than the time period threshold then the time period analyzer determines that the time period threshold has been met. In some examples the time period threshold is satisfied if a certain percentage of the pieces of identifying information collected during a given time period are associated with the same program. If the threshold percentage is satisfied then the time period threshold is determined to have been reached. If both the geographic location threshold and the time period threshold have been met at block control outputs that the consumer electronics device characteristic threshold has been met. In the illustrated example if either the geographic location threshold or the time period threshold has not been met then at block control outputs that the consumer electronics device characteristic threshold has not been met.

In the illustrated example of at block if the selector identifies that the consumer electronics device characteristic is not both a time period characteristic and a geographic location characteristic then control moves to block . At block if the selector identifies that the consumer electronics device characteristic is a geographic location characteristic then control moves to block . At block the monitor receives the geographic location of where the consumer electronics device collected identifying information from the example GPS receiver . The monitor provides the selector with the geographic location information. The example geographic location analyzer of the selector compares the received geographic location with the designated area stored in the example characteristic threshold database .

At block of the illustrated example of if the geographic location of the consumer electronics device is within the designated area then the geographic location analyzer determines that the geographic location threshold has been met. If the geographic location threshold has been met then at block control outputs that the consumer electronics device characteristic threshold has been met. If the geographic location threshold has not been met then at block control outputs that the consumer electronics device characteristic threshold has not been met.

In the illustrated example of at block if the selector identifies the consumer electronics device characteristic is not a geographic location characteristic then control moves to block . At block the selector receives the length of time the collector collected the identifying information associated with an example program from the example monitor . The example time period analyzer compares the received length of time with the time period threshold value stored in the example characteristic threshold database . In some examples the time period threshold is satisfied if at least a certain percentage of the pieces of identifying information collected during a given time period are associated with the same program. If the threshold percentage e.g. 85 is satisfied then the time period threshold is determined to have been reached.

At block of the illustrated example of if the received length of time is greater than the time period threshold then the time period analyzer determines that the time period threshold has been met. If the time period threshold has been met at block control outputs that the consumer electronics device characteristic threshold has been met. If the time period threshold has not been met then at block control outputs that the consumer electronics device characteristic threshold has not been met.

In the illustrated example of the monitor of the consumer electronics device determines the geographic location of the consumer electronics device via the GPS receiver . In some examples the consumer electronics device determines the geographic location of the consumer electronics device based on one or more wireless access points cellular base stations etc. in communication with the consumer electronics device . For example if the consumer electronics device is communicatively connected to a wireless router of the home the monitor can determine that the consumer electronics device is at home. The monitor forwards the geographic location to the selector . The selector of the illustrated example determines whether the consumer electronics device is within the designated area using the geographic location analyzer .

In the illustrated example of a user may use the consumer electronics device of and or throughout environment . When the consumer electronics device executes the instructions and or of the consumer electronics device collects any identifying information e.g. metadata signatures codes watermarks etc. exposed to one or more of the microphone camera and or other sensor s of the consumer electronics device.

In the illustrated example of if the geographic location characteristic of is to be used then the consumer electronics device may only include programs associated with identifying information collected in the designated area in the custom EPG. For example if the consumer electronics device is in the home and the consumer electronics device collects identifying information embedded in a television program presented within the home the identifying information is eligible for use in generating the custom EPG. However if the example consumer electronics device is in the restaurant and the consumer electronics device collects identifying information embedded in a television program playing on a television in the restaurant the consumer electronics device does not use the identifying information to generate the custom EPG. In some examples the geographic location criterion is not used and program s are added to the custom EPG wherein the user selects a button e.g. a listen button see to identify the program. For example if the user initiates a Shazam application on an iPhone to identify a program the program is automatically added to the custom EPG and or a media presentation queue of a media presentation application such as Netflix . In some examples the user may select a listen button to identify the program and the user interface prompts the user to indicate whether to add or not to add the identified program to the custom EPG and or a media presentation queue.

In the illustrated example of if the geographic location threshold of is not activated then the consumer electronics device may use collected identifying information to generate an example custom EPG including program information associated with the identifying information at any location in the environment . For example if the consumer electronics device collects identifying information associated with a television program presented within the home for a threshold period the identifying information is eligible for use in generating the custom EPG. In other examples if the consumer electronics device collects identifying information from a radio program played in the shopping center and or a television program presented in the restaurant for a period of time that meets the time period threshold then the radio program and or television program is included in the custom EPG.

The example daily custom EPG of shows a schedule of programs e.g. Law Order CSI etc. and program information e.g. CH 32 Season 2 19 32 etc. for corresponding programs airing on a selected day e.g. Monday . In the illustrated example of the program and or timeslots may be highlighted in the daily custom EPG e.g. 8 PM time slot and or selected by a user touching the program names and or timeslots respectively. In the illustrated example of once highlighted additional program information and or functions may be retrieved and or implemented using the action buttons .

The example start listening button and stop listening button of the GUI of initiates and ends the instructions of and or respectively. In the illustrated example when a user touches the start listening button the user interface of instructs the collector to begin collecting identifying information e.g. metadata signatures codes watermarks etc. . In some examples the user interface instructs the monitor to track the length of time consumer electronics device that identifying information associated with a certain program is collected. In some examples the example monitor uses the timer or clock of the consumer electronics device to monitor the length of time. In some examples the monitor tracks identifying information for a certain period of time and determines if a certain percentage of the identifying information is associated with the same media e.g. television program. The example monitor may monitor the location of the consumer electronics device using the GPS receiver and or based on communication with wireless access points cellular base stations etc. In the illustrated example of when a user touches the stop listening button the user interface instructs the meter to stop collecting the identifying information. In the illustrated example of at block the meter responds to selection of the stop listening button that the collector by ceasing collection of identifying information. The instructions of then end.

In the example of the GUI presents an example reminder interface e.g. the reminder interface of when the example reminder button is selected. In the example of a user is able to set a reminder for future viewings of a program selected from the custom EPG . In the illustrated example of the reminder interface includes header example reminder buttons an example accept button and an example cancel button .

In the illustrated example of the example header displays program information associated with the selected program. When at least one of the reminder buttons are selected and the accept button is touched an example controller of the consumer electronics device uses the timer to notify the user via the user interface that a corresponding program is going to air 15 minutes 30 minutes or one hour before the program begins respectively. In some examples the reminder buttons may be modified added or removed. When the user touches the cancel button the controller no longer notifies the user of the upcoming viewing for the selected program.

In the example of the GUI presents an example description interface e.g. the example description interface of when the example details button is selected. The example description interface of displays a description of a program selected from the custom EPG . In the illustrated example of the description interface includes a header and description field .

In the illustrated example of the example header displays program information associated with the selected program. The example description field displays detailed program information. In some examples the detailed program information may include a description of the program a summary of an episode of the selected program cast of the program and or credits of the program. In the illustrated example of the controller retrieves the program information for the header and the detailed program information for the description field from example program database and or example database .

In the example of the GUI presents an example suggestions interface e.g. the example suggestions interface of when the example suggestions button is selected. The example suggestions interface of displays program information of similar and or related programs to the program selected from the custom EPG . In the illustrated example of the suggestions interface includes an example header example related program selections an example accept button and an example cancel button .

In the illustrated example of the example header displays program information for similar and or related programs of the selected program. When the suggestions button of is selected the controller of the consumer electronics device retrieves program information of programs similar to and or related to the selected program from the program database and or the database of the central data facility . In some examples program information of the selected program is correlated with program information of similar and or related programs in the program database and or the database . In the illustrated example a selected program may be similar to or related to other programs based on genre cast members production companies time eras audiences demographics channel numbers etc. In some examples the suggested programs are based on profile information of the user e.g. demographics location etc. 

The example controller retrieves the program information of the similar programs and displays the related program information e.g. the related program name of the selections via the user interface consumer electronics device. In the illustrated example of the controller identified and retrieved the selections CSI NY Law Order CI CLOSER because they were in the same genre as the selected program Law Order shown in the header . In some examples the user may select the related program selections denoted by X in the illustrated example to add the corresponding program to the custom EPG .

In the illustrated example of if one or more related program selections are selected the controller instructs the program guide generator to include program information associated with the selected related programs. The program guide generator then updates and generates the custom EPG with the corresponding program information.

In the example of when selected the EPG button displays alternate versions of the custom EPG . In some examples the alternate versions of the EPG include weekly and or monthly versions of the EPG. In some examples the alternate versions of the EPG include more detailed program information e.g. display program description related program information etc. . In some examples alternate versions of the EPG include images associated with the programs of the EPG etc. In some examples the alternate versions of the EPG include a service provider EPG listing all programs provided by the corresponding service provider e.g. a cable service provider satellite television service provider satellite radio provider etc. .

In the example of when selected the record button instructs an example digital video recorder e.g. a recorder of the STB in communication with or at least accessible to the consumer electronics device to record a selected program. When a user touches the record button the controller instructs the example STB via example network to record the selected program.

In the example of when selected the list of shows button displays the programs included in the custom EPG. An example list of shows may be stored in the program database and or the database . When the button is touched the controller retrieves the example list of shows from the program database and or the database . In some examples the list of shows includes all programs included in the custom EPG. In some examples the list of shows includes programs that will be airing in a certain time period such as on the corresponding day corresponding week etc. In the illustrated example of the controller displays the list of shows via the user interface of the consumer electronics device .

In the example of when selected the quit button closes the GUI and or the custom EPG application. In response to the selection of the quit button the example controller of the consumer electronics device instructs the user interface to stop displaying the GUI . In some examples a user is prompted for authorization to close the GUI .

The example main header of is accessible while the custom EPG is being accessed by the consumer electronics device . The example main header includes example universal control button areas an example title header and an example listen button . In the illustrated example of the universal control button areas include two example buttons and three example buttons respectively. The buttons in the universal control button areas enable a user to control and or access other functions of the consumer electronics device e.g. access applications menus messages etc. . In some examples the universal control button areas can be configured to have buttons for control of applications or functions for the custom EPG e.g. quit zoom etc. and or consumer electronics device . In some examples the universal buttons in the areas are programmable or reconfigurable to have custom functionality.

In the illustrated example of the example title header of the GUI displays a custom EPG title e.g. My TV and an example control menu button . The example control menu button when activated instructs the GUI to display an example control menu such as the example control menu described herein with respect to .

In the illustrated example of the example listen button enables a user to control e.g. activate deactivate the listening function of the metered consumer electronics device . In the illustrated example of when a user activates the listen button the user interface of instructs the meter to instruct the collector to begin collecting identifying information e.g. metadata signatures codes watermarks etc. .

In the example GUI of when the listen button is selected a second time the user interface instructs the collector to stop collecting the identifying information.

The example GUI in uses the example tab display to allow a user to navigate among different features of the generated custom EPG displayed on the tabs . The tab display features three tabs the MyTV tab the My EPG tab and the EPG tab . The example MyTV tab enables a user to navigate the custom EPG in particular by enable viewing the list of scheduled programs included in the custom EPG in a daily display e.g. see and or a weekly display e.g. see . In some examples other time periods may be used in the MyTV tab . The example My EPG tab enables a user to see a list of channels associated with programs used in generating the custom EPG as described herein e.g. see or a list of shows on an example channel to be added to the custom EPG e.g. see . The example EPG tab enables a user to browse an EPG for a service provider for example a cable service provider or satellite television service provider e.g. see .

In the illustrated example of the MyTV tab displays a custom EPG arranged daily. In some examples when the custom EPG is selected the MyTV tab is the home screen of the GUI i.e. the screen that is displayed when the custom EPG application is opened on the consumer electronics device . When selected the MyTV tab of the illustrated example displays the current date e.g. Nov. 7 2012 in the illustrated example in the tab title . In some examples the date is displayed in another location of the custom EPG .

The custom EPG of includes an example time column and a program column . The example time column of displays the time that a corresponding program in the program column is going to air although times when programs are not being aired may also be displayed. The program column includes one or more program fields. In the illustrated example program field includes programming information for television program FUTURAMA that is to air at 9 00 AM of Nov. 7 2012. The example program field displays program information e.g. program name FUTURAMA channel information Comedy Central episode details Fear of a Bot Planet Season 1 Episode 2 and an image associated with the program. In some examples the program field may be selected and a program detail display is presented to the user e.g. see .

The example program field may include a record indicator or a reminder indicator . The record indicator indicates that the program is set to be recorded by the STB or other recording device in communication with the consumer electronics device . The reminder indicator indicates that a reminder is set for the program to alert a user via the consumer electronics device or any other device in communication with the consumer electronics device .

The example GUI of includes an example scroll tab and example scroll arrows enable a user to navigate the custom EPG . The scroll tab scrolls up and down to enable a user to see the programs that will be airing throughout the displayed day. The scroll arrows navigate the custom EPG to the previous day or next day to enable a user to see the programs that will be airing on the corresponding day. In some examples the GUI includes functions to allow a user to swipe up down left or right to navigate the custom EPG as an alternative or in addition to the scroll bar and or scroll arrows .

The example GUI of includes a selector button that may be used to change the settings of the custom EPG . For example the selector button is used to change the custom EPG from daily view as shown in to weekly view as shown in . In some examples the selector button may be used to navigate the custom EPG to another day or any other similar function.

In the illustrated example of the MyTV tab displays a custom EPG arranged weekly. In some examples the MyTV tab with the custom EPG selected is the home screen of the GUI. When selected the MyTV tab of the illustrated example displays the current week e.g. the week of Nov. 7 2012 in the illustrated example in the tab title . In some examples the date is displayed in another location of the custom EPG .

The custom EPG of includes an example time column and day columns to create a calendar grid. The time column is arranged in hourly increments and the day columns are arranged by days of the week although other arrangements may be implemented.

In the illustrated example of light shaded program indicators indicate when a program is going to air. For example a program indicator indicates that a program will air on Monday Nov. 5 2012 from 9 00 AM until 12 00 PM. In the illustrated example of dark shaded appointment indicators indicate when a user associated with the consumer electronics device has a scheduled appointment. For example an appointment indicator indicates that the user has an appointment scheduled for Monday Nov. 5 2012 from 11 00 AM until 1 00 PM. In some examples the consumer electronics device has a functioning calendar that may be accessed by the GUI to populate time slots with an appointment indicator e.g. the appointment indicator when the user has an appointment. In some examples the user may enter appointments using the GUI . In some examples selecting a program indicator or appointment indicator will open a program detail display e.g. see or appointment detail display respectively.

In some examples the controller of the consumer electronics device may be used to automatically detect timing conflicts. In some such examples if the controller determines that a program in the user s custom EPG is scheduled to air during a user s appointment the controller instructs the STB or other similar recording device to record the scheduled program. To this end the controller may interact with the application programming interfaces APIs or other interfaces of the recording device s . In the illustrated example the program indicator includes a recording indicator to show that the program is being recorded. In some examples a reminder can be set and indicated using a reminder indicator such as reminder indicator .

The example GUI of includes an example scroll tab and example scroll arrows enable a user to navigate the custom EPG . The scroll tab scrolls up and down to enable a user to navigate the time of the week. The scroll arrows navigate the custom EPG to a past week or a future week to enable a user to see any program and or appoints scheduled for the week. In some examples the GUI includes functions to allow a user to swipe up down left or right to navigate the custom EPG as an alternative or in addition to the scroll bar and or scroll arrows .

The example GUI of includes a selector button that may be used to change the settings of the custom EPG . For example the selector button is used to change the custom EPG from weekly view as shown in to daily view as shown in . In some examples the selector button may be used to navigate the custom EPG to another day or any other similar function.

In the example GUI displays an example program detail display . In some examples the program detail display is presented by the GUI when a user selects a program presented by the GUI . In some examples the program detail display is presented when a collector e.g. the collector of the consumer electronics device collects identifying information e.g. metadata signatures codes watermarks etc. associated with the program. When the program detail display is activated the GUI retrieves the program detail information from the database consumer electronics device and or the database . The program detail display includes an example program image program information display television launch button and program action bar .

The example program image depicts an image in association with the selected program of the program detail display . In some examples the program image depicts a character or actor on the television when the program is airing and the program detail display is opened. In some examples a user is able to edit change and or remove the image . The program information display of the illustrated example displays program information associated with the selected program. In the illustrated example the program information display includes a program header and a program information field . In the illustrated example the program header of the illustrated example displays the program name. The program information field of the illustrated example displays the program information e.g. episode information channel information time and date of the program etc. . In some examples the program information field includes descriptive information of a scene of the program e.g. an actor scene background information character shooting location etc. being presented if the program detail display is open while the program is airing. In the illustrated example the program information field includes a record indicator and or a reminder indicator to indicate whether one or more corresponding programs are set to record and or an alarm is set for the one or more corresponding programs.

The example television launch button of enables a user to view the program described in the program detail display . When the television launch button is selected the controller of the consumer electronics device instructs one or more presentation device s to tune to the program. In some examples the example controller instructs the user interface to present the program. In the illustrated example the controller sends a message to another device e.g. the television the STB etc. associated with the consumer electronics device via a network to launch the program. In some examples a user of the consumer electronics device is capable of controlling the program playback on the other example devices using the GUI . In such examples the GUI may include remote control functionality to enable the consumer electronics device to control the television via a network e.g. the network such as a LAN digital living network alliance DLNA network etc. infrared sensor optical sensor etc.

The example program action bar of includes an example reminder button an example record button an example remove button and an example suggestions button . When selected the reminder button sets an alarm indicating that the program presented on the program detail display is airing. In some examples the alarm is presented by the user interface of the consumer electronics device . In some examples the reminder is presented to the user via other devices associated with the consumer electronics device e.g. the television the STB etc. .

The example record button of enables a user to record the program of the program detail display . When the record button is selected the consumer electronics device instructs one or more media presentation devices e.g. the STB a DVR a smart television etc. associated with the consumer electronics device to record the program when it airs. In some examples the consumer electronics device is associated with media presentation devices via a network e.g. the network .

The example remove button of enables a user to delete the program of the program detail display from the example custom EPG e.g. the custom EPG s etc. . In some examples when the remove button is selected the consumer electronics device erases corresponding program information from the database and or the database .

The example suggestions button of enables a user to view programs related to the program of the program detail display . When the suggestions button is selected the consumer electronics device retrieves program information of similar and or related programs stored in the database and or the database . In the illustrated examples the program information for the similar and or related programs is displayed to a user via the GUI . In some examples the related programs are presented in a similar manner as the program detail display .

In the illustrated example of the My EPG tab displays a list of channels associated with programs included in an example custom EPG e.g. the custom EPG s . The example My EPG tab includes an example date display corresponding to a date that the list of channels are scheduled to air e.g. Nov. 7 2012 . In some examples the channel list displays all channels associated with programs in the custom EPG. The My EPG tab also includes an example search bar to enable a user to search for channels and or programs in the custom EPG.

The example channel list of includes a number of channel fields for example a channel field that present corresponding channel information to a user. The example channel field includes an example channel image an example channel information field and an example remove button . The example channel image is associated with an example channel presented in the channel information field and may include an icon designating the channel an image of an actor character etc. In some examples the user may edit the channel image .

The example channel information field of presents channel information for example the channel name Comedy Central and channel number Channel 100. The example remove button of the channel field allows a user to remove the channel and any programs associated with the channel from the user s custom EPG e.g. the custom EPG s . In some examples when the remove button is selected if the consumer electronics device collects identifying information from a program aired on the corresponding channel the program associated with the identifying information will not be included in the custom EPG. In some examples if the remove button is selected a prompt will request the user to confirm removal of the channel and or programs associated with the channel from the custom EPG.

The example GUI of includes an example scroll tab and example scroll arrows enable a user to navigate the channel list . The scroll tab scrolls up and down the channel list . The scroll arrows of the illustrated example enable the user to navigate the channel list to a past day or a future day to enable a user to see channels associated with programs airing on the corresponding day. In some examples the GUI includes functions to allow a user to swipe up down left or right to navigate the channel list as an alternative or in addition to the scroll bar and or scroll arrows .

In the illustrated example of the My EPG tab displays a list of programs that may be used or selected to generate an example custom EPG e.g. the custom EPG s . The example My EPG tab includes a channel field to identify the channel on which the programs in the list of programs will air. The My EPG tab includes a date display to indicate a date on which the programs of the program list are airing on a given day e.g. Nov. 7 2012 . In some examples the program list displays all programs available to be used to generate the custom EPG regardless of the channel or date e.g. by alphabetical order chronological order etc. . The My EPG tab also includes a search bar to enable a user to search for channels and or programs in the custom EPG.

The example channel list of includes a time column and a program column . The example time column displays the time s when corresponding program s are scheduled to air or have aired. The example program column includes a number of program fields for example a program field that present corresponding program information to a user. The example program field includes an example program image an example program information field and an example add button . The example program image is associated with an example program presented in the program information field and may include an icon designating the channel an image of an actor character etc. In some examples the user may edit the channel image .

The example program information field of presents program information for example a program name Futurama a channel name Comedy Central and or episode information Fear of a Bot Planet Season 1 Episode 2 . The example add button of the program field allows a user to add the program in the program field to the custom EPG. In some such examples the controller instructs the program generator to include the corresponding program information in the custom EPG. In some examples if the add button is selected a prompt will request the user to confirm the addition of the program to the custom EPG.

The example GUI of includes an example scroll tab and example scroll arrows enable a user to navigate the program list . The scroll tab scrolls up and down the program list . The scroll arrows of the illustrated example enable the user to navigate the program list to a past day or a future day to enable a user to see programs associated with the channel of channel display airing on the corresponding day. In some examples the GUI includes functions to allow a user to swipe up down left or right to navigate the program list as an alternative or in addition to the scroll bar and or scroll arrows .

In the illustrated example of the EPG tab displays an example EPG associated with a service provider e.g. a cable service provider a satellite television provider satellite radio provider etc. . The example EPG is presented to the user via the GUI . The illustrated example of the EPG is an example and may take the appearance of any EPG generated by any service provider. In some examples the EPG is generated by the consumer electronics device and or a device associated with the consumer electronics device e.g. the STB the television etc. . In some examples the EPG is generated from display data stored in a database of a service provider STB e.g. the STB of . In some examples the EPG is generated from display data stored in consumer electronics device the database and or the database .

The example GUI of includes an example scroll tab and example scroll arrows enable a user to navigate the EPG . The scroll tab scrolls up and down the EPG . The scroll arrows of the illustrated example enable the user to navigate the EPG to a past day or a future day to enable a user to see programs. In some examples the GUI includes functions to allow a user to swipe up down left or right to navigate the EPG as an alternative or in addition to the scroll bar and or scroll arrows .

The example recordings button of enables a user to navigate recordings of the STB a DVR or other similar recording device associated with the consumer electronics device . When the recordings button is selected the GUI displays the recordings display of . The recordings display includes a tab display with an example ongoing recordings tab an example scheduled recordings tab and an example recorded programs tab . The example ongoing recordings tab displays programs that are currently being recorded by the STB a DVR or other similar recording device associated with the example consumer electronics device . The example scheduled recordings tab displays programs that are scheduled for recording by the STB a DVR and or other similar recording device associated with the example consumer electronics device . The example recorded programs tab displays programs that have been recorded by the STB a DVR or other similar recording device associated with the example consumer electronics device . Each of the tabs of the illustrated example displays a corresponding recordings viewer .

The example recordings viewer of includes an example time column and an example program column with a number of program fields for example the program field . The example time column displays a time and or channel associated with a program in the corresponding program field. The illustrated example of shows a program field including program information and a status bar . In the illustrated examples the controller retrieves corresponding program information to be presented in the recordings viewer by the GUI . The program information may include a program name channel information episode information program description etc. In the illustrated example a status bar indicates the status of the recording e.g. 60 complete . In some examples a recordings viewer of the scheduled recordings tab includes program information and the corresponding time that the program is scheduled to record. In some examples a recordings viewer of the recorded programs tab includes program information and the corresponding time that the program was recorded.

The example reminders button of enables a user to view and or edit reminder settings for programs used in generating a custom EPG e.g. the custom EPG s . For example the user can view whether reminders are on or off time settings audio visual settings vibration settings etc.

The example suggestions button of enables a user to view suggested programs that are similar and or related to the programs used in generating the custom EPG as described herein the programs in the custom EPG are programs viewed by the user as determined by an example meter . In some examples the user can set the suggestions criteria for similar or related programs. For example suggestions are based on genre cast members production companies time periods audiences demographics channel numbers etc. In some examples the suggestions button provides an example GUI including a browser that allows the user to set the criteria for similar or related programs and or search for similar or related programs. In some examples the user is able to ignore suggestions provided to the user when selecting the suggestions button so that the corresponding program is no longer suggested to the user. In some examples the user is able to view details of suggested programs e.g. via the program detail display of and or add the suggested program to the user s custom EPG e.g. the custom EPG s .

The example settings button of enables a user to view settings for the GUI and or consumer electronics device . For example the user may adjust color schemes time settings suggestion criteria as described herein notification settings for reminders as described herein and or user profiles. For example a user profile may include geographic location settings for the example selector described herein.

The example help button of enables a user to view a help screen and or send help requests for troubleshooting. For example the help button may access a website displaying frequently asked questions troubleshooting tutorials search indexes or any other similar features.

The example exit button of closes the main menu on the GUI and returns the GUI to the previous screen and or a home screen e.g. the custom EPG s .

The processor platform of the instant example includes a processor . For example the processor can be implemented by one or more microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.

The processor includes a local memory e.g. a cache and is in communication with a main memory including a volatile memory and a non volatile memory via a bus . The volatile memory may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of random access memory device. The non volatile memory may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the main memory is controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform also includes an interface circuit . The interface circuit may be implemented by any type of interface standard such as an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface.

One or more input devices are connected to the interface circuit . The input device s permit a user to enter data and commands into the processor . The input device s can be implemented by for example a keyboard a mouse a touchscreen a track pad a trackball isopoint and or a voice recognition system. The user interface input device s may be used to implement input functions of the user interface of .

One or more output devices are also connected to the interface circuit . The output devices can be implemented for example by display devices e.g. a liquid crystal display a cathode ray tube display CRT and or speakers . The interface circuit thus typically includes a graphics driver card. The output device s may be used to implement the output functions of the user interface of .

The interface circuit also includes a communication device e.g. the data port of such as a modem or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external computers via a network e.g. an Ethernet connection a digital subscriber line DSL a telephone line coaxial cable a cellular telephone system etc. .

The processor platform also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing software and data. Examples of such mass storage devices include floppy disk drives hard drive disks compact disk drives and digital versatile disk DVD drives. The mass storage device may implement the program database .

The coded instructions which may implement the coded instructions of and or may be stored in the mass storage device in the volatile memory in the non volatile memory and or on a removable storage disk such as a CD or DVD.

From the foregoing it will appreciate that the example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been disclosed to identify media exposed e.g. visually aurally or electromagnetically to a consumer electronics device and to generate a custom electronic program guide for the user based on the identified media.

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

