---

title: Method and apparatus for signal reception with ambient light compensation
abstract: A free space communications apparatus includes a first receiving element configured to receive a communication signal and an ambient noise signal and to generate a first current as a function of any and all received signals, a second receiving element electrically coupled with the first receiving element to receive the ambient noise signal and to generate a second current as a function of any and all received signals, and an output signal produced as a function of the communication signal received by the first receiving element. The first and second receiving elements are electrically connected in a circuit that cancels at least a portion of the first current as a function of the second current to produce the output signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09154228&OS=09154228&RS=09154228
owner: University of North Dakota
number: 09154228
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121015
---
This invention was made with government support under FA4861 06 C 0006 awarded by The United States Department of Defense and FA8650 09 C1600 awarded by the United States air Force Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to signal reception systems and methods for free space communication and more particularly to signal reception systems and methods for free space communication with compensation for ambient noise signals.

Photo detectors can be used to detect laser signals to support high speed data communications for a variety of applications such as for ground to air air to air and other types of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV communications deep space communications and underwater submersible communications. However unwanted ambient light or other noise signals often causes the photo detector to saturate causing an undesirable signal to noise S N ratio. Saturation is generally not a problem during nighttime conditions when ambient light levels are low. However during daytime conditions sunlight can produce a direct current DC photo current and cause the photo detector to saturate making a desired communication signal e.g. laser beam signal undetectable. Moreover in deep space application sunlight and other atmospheric conditions can produce similar saturation problems. Filters are sometimes used to reduce saturation including optical filters colored and neutral density filters and low band pass and high pass filters. However known filters have not performed well. Some receivers don t have any kind of filtering and use computers to sift through all the signals to receive the correct one. Computerized signal analysis has drawbacks such as requiring complex equipment and software. All of these filtering and computer processing methods have the effect of reducing signals from unwanted bandwidths while keeping others and when they are placed with photo diodes are often called daylight filters. None of these known methods truly cancels out all unwanted ambient signals they only diminish the power of signals in unwanted bandwidths.

Known optical laser receivers in their most basic construction consist of one photo detector. Such a known communication system is illustrated in which shows laser transmitter having a laser illustrated as diode D1 and a receiver having a single optical receiver element illustrated as photo detector diode D2. In the absence of any kind of filtering sunlight received by the photo diode D2 of the receiver will produce a strong DC current. Strong sunlight will indeed overpower a laser signal from the diode D1 which may have been transmitted a great distance away from the receiver . An output voltage Vof the system of can be represented by Equation 1 where Iis current produced by ambient noise such as ambient light e.g. sunlight and any and all other received ambient noise Iis current produced by a signal from the transmitter and R2 is the resistance of a resistor R2 in the receiver 2 1 

Discerning a laser signal is difficult amid all the background noise received by the photo detector diode D2. Known filters and computerized processing methods are simply not good enough to eliminate all the unwanted noise including sunlight. As a result some believe that these saturation problems mean optical free space communication system are not feasible for many applications such as for UAV communications.

Thus additional techniques are needed to further reduce problems of atmospheric or other ambient noise in communication signal reception.

A free space communications apparatus includes a first receiving element configured to receive a communication signal and an ambient noise signal and to generate a first current as a function of any and all received signals a second receiving element electrically coupled with the first receiving element to receive the ambient noise signal and to generate a second current as a function of any and all received signals and an output signal produced as a function of the communication signal received by the first receiving element. The first and second receiving elements are electrically connected in a circuit that cancels at least a portion of the first current as a function of the second current to produce the output signal.

While the above identified figures set forth embodiments of the present disclosure other embodiments are also contemplated as noted in the discussion. In all cases this disclosure presents the invention by way of representation and not limitation. It should be understood that numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art which fall within the scope and spirit of the principles of the invention. The figures may not be drawn to scale and applications and embodiments of the present invention may include features and components not specifically shown in the drawings.

In general the present invention provides a free space signal transmission system and associated sign reception apparatus and method that allows an output signal to be generated by the reception apparatus as a function of a received free space communication signal with ambient noise signals e.g. sunlight substantially canceled such that the output signal has a relatively high signal to noise S N ratio. A receiver circuit that cross couples an even number of signal receivers in a differential configuration can cancel out any common signal input. For example a laser communication signal system in a simple embodiment can electrically cross couple two photo receiver devices or a greater even number of receiver devices in a receiver circuit apparatus with an effect being that in an absence of a received laser communication signal received ambient noise signals are canceled and a net output power is zero or close to zero. In one such embodiment a desired communication signal is focused upon and transmitted into only one of the receiver devices with another of the receiver devices receiving only ambient noise signals e.g. sunlight but not the desired communication signal. The receiver devices can be positioned adjacent one another in close proximity such that ambient noise signals received by each device are substantially equal. The cross coupled photo receiver devices can thereby cancel out ambient noise signals that received by both of the receiver devices. With all other signals being cancelled out the desired communication signal is an overwhelmingly dominant signal in a resultant output. The desired communication signal can then be received with relatively little noise and subsequent signal processing can be made easier. For embodiments utilizing optical signal transmission the photo receiver devices can be photo detectors solar cell array modules or other receptor devices. Typically the signal reception devices will be configured to each generate an electrical current as a function of any and all received signals such that separate currents are generated for each detector element. In further embodiments operational amplifiers can be used to reduce parasitic capacitance in receiver circuitry. Moreover the present invention can be used in conjunction with filtering and or post reception signal processing but in some embodiments such filtering and processing can be omitted entirely as desired. Additional features and embodiments of the present invention will be better understood in view of the description that follows and in view of the accompanying drawings.

It should be noted that the embodiment illustrated in is provided merely by way of example and not limitation. In further embodiments communications with an underwater submersible purely land based communication nodes e.g. automobiles buildings etc. deep space vehicles and or satellites other applications are possible.

The transmitter apparatus as shown in includes a signal generator and a transmitter element . In one embodiment the transmitter element can be a laser. In further embodiments the transmitter element can be configured to produce another type of narrow beam line of sight communication signal e.g. narrow beam microwave using any desired electromagnetic signal format. The signal generator can control and govern modulation of a communication signal S e.g. communication laser beam generated by the transmitter element and can incorporate suitable processing hardware and software firmware. The signal generator and the transmitter element can each have any suitable configuration to generate and transmit the communication signal Sin a desired format. For instance where the transmitter element is a laser and the communication signal Sis a laser beam laser beam can be an infrared IR beam a visible spectrum beam or any other type of beam desired for a particular application. It should be noted that the transmitter apparatus is shown in in simplified schematic form. Various additional components not shown in can be included in further embodiments. For example an aiming and tracking system not shown can be utilized to facilitate aiming the communication signal S.

The receiving apparatus as shown in includes a receiver subassembly a computer and computer readable memory . The receiver subassembly in the illustrated embodiment includes a substrate and receiver elements and . The receiver elements and can each be photo detectors solar panel array modules or other receiver elements capable of receiving optical signals. In a preferred embodiment the receiver elements and are identically configured such that each element and can receive signals and generate identical or substantially identical outputs e.g. output currents based on the same or substantially the same inputs e.g. ambient light or other ambient noise . For instance the receiver elements and can be positioned adjacent to one another in close proximity facing in the same direction such the noise signal source impinges equally or substantially equally on both receiver elements and . The computer can be any suitable computer having one or more processor and can optionally include signal processing capabilities in the form of suitable hardware and or software firmware. The computer readable memory can take any suitable form and is accessible by the computer for read and or write functionality. Signals received by the receiver subassembly and other data can be stored in the memory for later retrieval.

The receiver subassembly can comprise a single unit in one preferred embodiment. For example the receiver elements and can both be formed adjacent one another in a closely spaced relationship on a single surface of the substrate . A single unit single integrated circuit construction is particularly advantageous when the receiver elements and comprise solar panels or solar cell array modules. As explained further below it is desirable for the receiver elements and to detect the same or substantially the same ambient noise signals and receiver elements formed on the same surface of a single substrate are less likely to exhibit performance variations such as those related to manufacturing tolerance and fabrication related structural differences. In other words matching and signal cancelling can be enhanced when the receiver elements and are as identical as possible. Although slight manufacturing related variations are common and inevitable a single substrate embodiment can help reduce associated performance degradation. In alternative embodiments the receiver subassembly can be made up of any number of physically separate structures or panels that make up at least two receiver elements and . For instance more than two receiver elements can be provided though typically an even number of receiver elements are utilized. Moreover the individual receiver elements and can themselves be made up of any number of solar cells in an array module each have any desired configuration.

In an unmanned aerial vehicle applications deep space applications and other desired implementations the receiver elements and of the receiver subassembly can each have a relatively large surface area such as on the order or square centimeters to square meters of surface area. Generally speaking receiver element surface area may increase with increasing free space communication signal transmission distances. A large surface area facilitates directing the communication signal Son a selected one of the receiver elements or without impinging the communication signal Son the other one of the receiver elements or . In some embodiments the communication signal S e.g. a laser beam can be focused on a region that falls within a perimeter of the selected one of the receiver elements or .

As shown in the receiver includes a circuit having diodes D2 and D3 electrically connected together in a cross coupled configuration and a resistor R2 connected between the diodes D2 and D3 to an output. An output signal can be produced by the circuit which can be in the form of a voltage output V. The diodes D2 and D3 can each be photodiodes or other light sensitive elements that can generate a current as a function of light input. Each of the diodes D2 and D3 can generate a current in direct current DC form as a function of received signals i.e. received energy . A current Ican be generated by the diode D2 as a function of any and all received signals for instance as a total current produced by a current Igenerated as a function of the received communication signal Sand a current Igenerated as a function of a received ambient noise signal S such as from the noise source shown in . A current Ican be generated by the diode D3 as a function of the received ambient noise signal S. The cross coupled configuration can involve the diode D2 having a cathode facing an output terminal of the circuit and the diode D3 having an anode facing the output terminal of the circuit which as a result of the separate input currents Iand Igenerated by the diodes D2 and D3 causes a cancellation effect for equivalent currents Iand Igenerated by both diodes D2 and D3. This results in a net output of only the current Igenerated by the received communication signal Sat one of the diodes D2 .

An output of the circuit shown in is governed by Equation 2 where Vis the output voltage signal Iis a current generated as a function of the received communication signal S and R2 is a resistance of the resistor R2 2 2 

Accordingly photo current due to any ambient noise signal S e.g. sunlight is canceled due to cross coupling of the two photo diodes D2 and D3. It is presumed that the ambient noise signal Sis essentially equally received by both diodes D2 and D3 for complete cancellation to occur. Thus when two signal generating photo receptors are arranged such that when they are opposed to one another such as in the configuration shown in the effect is a cancelation of ambient noise if the both photo receptors receive the same amount of noise input. As used herein the term cancellation refers to cancellation of signals received by each receiving element and is intended to encompass situations in which incidental variations in signal reception at different receiving elements leads to incidental variations and inequalities in generated currents.

It should be recognized that B and C are a highly simplified representations of possible circuitry that can be used in conjunction with the present invention. Those figures are presented merely by way of example and not limitation. For instance various other additional circuit elements that are not specifically shown can be utilized as desired for particular applications.

An output of the diode D2 can be passed through the first operational amplifier in an inverting configuration that is with an output current of the diode D2 connected to a negative terminal of the first operational amplifier . The resistor R3 can be electrically connected across the negative terminal and an output terminal of the first operational amplifier such that the first operational amplifier can be configured with divided negative feedback i.e. resistor feedback . The resistor R4 can be electrically connected in series downstream of the first operational amplifier and the resistor R3. An anode of the diode D2 and a positive terminal of the first operational amplifier can each be electrically connected to ground.

Similarly an output of the diode D3 can be passed through the second operational amplifier in an inverting configuration that is with an output current of the diode D3 connected to a negative terminal of the second operational amplifier . The resistor R5 can be electrically connected across the negative terminal and an output terminal of the second operational amplifier such that the second operational amplifier can be configured with divided negative feedback i.e. resistor feedback . The resistor R6 can be electrically connected in series downstream of the second operational amplifier and the resistor R5. An anode of the diode D3 and a positive terminal of the second operational amplifier can each be electrically connected to ground. In one embodiment the diodes D2 and D3 the first and second operational amplifiers and the resistors R3 and R5 and the resistors R4 and R6 can respectively have identical or substantially identical configurations.

Outputs of the first and second operational amplifiers and can be passed through the third operational amplifier such that the third operational amplifier can be configured as a negative comparator or subtractor utilizing outputs of the first and second operational amplifiers and . The resistor R7 can be electrically connected across the negative terminal and an output terminal of the third operational amplifier such that the third operational amplifier can be configured with divided negative feedback. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the output of the first operational amplifier is input to a negative input terminal of the third operational amplifier and the output of the second operational amplifier is input to a positive input terminal of the third operational amplifier . The resistor R8 can be electrically connected from a location at the positive input of the third operational amplifier to ground such that the resistor R8 connection to ground can provide an escape path for bias currents. Use of the third operational amplifier is optional and the third operational amplifier and the resistor R8 can be omitted entirely in further embodiments.

Although not labeled in for simplicity a current Ican be generated by the diode D2 as a function of any and all received signals for instance as a total current produced by a current Igenerated as a function of the received communication signal Sand a current Igenerated as a function of a received ambient noise signal S such as from the noise source shown in . Moreover a current I not labeled in can be generated by the diode D3 as a function of the received ambient noise signal S. The output signal VO from the third operational amplifier can effectively cancel the currents Iand Igenerated as functions of the undesired received ambient noise signal S leaving a current Igenerated as a function of the desired communication signal S.

Solar panels i.e. solar cell array modules are not specifically designed as communication receiver diodes. Solar panels have the benefit of having a large surface area which makes communication signal targeting easier however solar panels have a relatively low response to higher frequencies. A reason solar panel exhibit relatively low responses to high frequencies is that the photo solar cells comprising the solar panels are generally PN junctions which means there is a junction capacitor. A value of this junction capacitor is proportional to an area of the junction so larger solar cells have worse bandwidths than smaller ones. One way to mitigate the relatively low response of solar panels is to virtually eliminate the effect of the junction capacitor which can be done using one or more operational amplifiers.

By connecting a receiver element e.g. diode D2 or D3 or solar cell modules SC1 or SC2 between negative and positive input terminals of an operational amplifier parasitic capacitance can be reduced. Equation 3 gives a voltage output Vfor the circuits shown in and Equation 4 gives gain Afor the circuits shown in . In Equations 3 and 4 Vis a voltage output for an output signal A Iis a current generated as a function of the received communication signal S R is a resistance of each of resistors R3 and R5 R is a resistance of each of resistors R4 and R6 and R7 is a resistance of the resistor R7.

Bandwidth is no longer limited when the receivers and are set up as illustrated in . Instead bandwidth is limited by the particular operational amplifiers and used. Therefore a preferred embodiment can utilize high speed operational amplifiers. A bit rate for the embodiments shown in may be faster than the embodiments shown in by as much as 10 times or more with increases from the order of approximately 100 kbit sec. to the order of 1 Mbit sec. or more in some embodiments.

The present inventors have conducted experiments that have verified performance of the present invention. These experimental examples are described below.

The receivers used in the experiment were solar panels One pair manufactured by Sanyo Energy model number AM 1801CA 53 mm 25 mm and another pair manufactured by Parallax Inc. model number 750 00030 125 mm 63 mm. There were two lasers used a 532 nm laser green model number CPA LP0080 2 and white light from an Illumin laser keychain light model ESP 006. A 1 kHz sine wave was generated using a K and H IDL 800 Digital Lab and transmitted via laser and white light LED. Power of the frequency components of the total incoming signal was examined for a two cases with and without cancelation using photo receivers. Results were collected using a National Instruments myDaq connected to a laptop computer.

With two receivers canceling out each other power of what constitutes ambient light indoors e.g. noise from light bulbs is significantly reduced. An undesired 120 Hz noise component due in large part to ambient light drops from a strength Magnitude of approximately 12 dB in the prior art configuration of to approximately 26 dB in . A gain from approximately 26 dB in the prior art configuration of to approximately 18 db in is achieved for reception of the communication signal S a 2 times increase when the receivers are canceling each other out. The 1 kHz signal component is also much cleaner i.e. less jagged and more smooth off peak in . In this case cross coupling two receivers not only reduced noise from ambient light S but increased gain from the intended communication signal S .

Another test similar to Test A was performed using a different communication signal source. For purposes of Test B a single solar cell panel a Parallax Inc. model number 750 00030 solar panel 125 mm 63 mm was used as the single receiving element a 532 nm laser green model number CPA LP0080 2 as diode D1 generating a 1 kHz sine wave signal Susing a K and H IDL 800 Digital Lab signal generator and indoor room lighting i.e. light bulb output as a source of an ambient noise signal S. The 1 kHz component increased slightly for the cross coupled configuration and the 120 Hz component dropped from a strength Magnitude of approximately 12 dB to approximately 25 dB a drop of about 4 times.

In the experiments the white ambient light in Test A covered the entire receiving panel s whereas the green laser in Test B did not so the effect of cancelation may be different because of these two different methods of input.

With the smaller 53 mm 25 mm solar panels used in Test C the effects of a differential cross coupled receiving elements are again similar to Tests A and B with the panels arranged in differential mode producing better results. For a 1 kHz incoming signal S the cancelation effects from a second photo receiver as in as opposed to only one receiving element as in the prior art configuration in increases power of the 1 kHz signal from approximately 51 dB to approximately 35 dB a more than 6 times increase.

Any relative terms or terms of degree used herein such as substantially essentially generally and the like should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to any applicable definitions or limits expressly stated herein. In all instances any relative terms or terms of degree used herein should be interpreted to broadly encompass any relevant disclosed embodiments as well as such ranges or variations as would be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art in view of the entirety of the present disclosure such as to encompass ordinary manufacturing tolerance variations incidental alignment variations incidental signal distortions alignment or shape variations induced by thermal or optical operational conditions and the like.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. For example the type of receiving elements or devices used to receive communication signals and ambient noise signals can vary as desired for particular applications though only a few representative examples have been described and illustrated in detail herein.

