---

title: Apparatus and methods for detecting a conductive object at a location
abstract: A method and apparatus to determine capacitance variations of a first number of two or more sense elements of a touch screen device. A processing device is configured to detect a presence of a conductive object on any one of a second number of three or more button areas of the touch screen device. The first number of sense elements is less than the second number of button areas. The processing device is further configured to recognize an activation of one of the three or more button areas using the determined capacitance variations of the first number of two or more sense elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08519973&OS=08519973&RS=08519973
owner: Cypress Semiconductor Corporation
number: 08519973
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120409
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 204 543 filed Aug. 5 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 174 507 issued May 8 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 437 517 filed May 18 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 004 497 issued Aug. 23 2011.

This invention relates to the field of user interface devices and in particular to touch sensing devices.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface device HID . One user interface device that is common is a touch sensor button. A basis touch sensor button emulates the function of a mechanical button. Touch sensor buttons may be embedded into different types of operational panels of electronic devices. For example touch sensor buttons may be used on operational or control panels of household appliances consumer electronics mechanical devices and the like. Touch sensor buttons may also be used in conjunction with or in place of other user input devices such as keyboards mice trackballs or the like.

Each of the conventional touch sensor buttons may be made of a sensor element of conductive material such as copper clad. The conductive material may be form shaped in a circular shape illustrated in or even in a rectangular shape illustrated in . The touch sensor buttons may be capacitance sensor buttons which may be used as non contact switches. These switches when protected by an insulating layer offer resistance to severe environments.

It should be noted that the conventional configuration of includes a one to one configuration of touch sensor buttons to capacitance sensors. There are other conventional configurations that may use less capacitance sensors to measure the capacitance on the three touch sensor buttons. These conventional configurations however still require a one to one configuration of pins to touch sensor buttons. Accordingly by adding more buttons the processing device needs to have more pins to correspond to the one to one configuration of pins to touch sensor buttons. Similarly by increasing the pin count the scan time to scan the sensor elements increases. In addition the memory of the processing device which may be used to store program data and or temporary data e.g. raw measurement data differential counts baseline measurement data and the like increases by increasing the pin count.

Described herein is an apparatus and method for detecting a presence of a conductive object on a sensing device and recognizing three or more button operations performed by the conductive object using two sensing areas of the sensing device. The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of a method and apparatus are described to recognize three or more button operations performed by the conductive object on three or more sensor elements that are coupled to two pins of a processing device. In one embodiment the apparatus may include a sensing device e.g. touch sensor button that has first second and third sensor elements. The third sensor element has a first portion coupled to the first sensor element and a second portion coupled to the second sensor element. These portions of the third sensor element are electrically isolated from one another.

The embodiments describe herein permit the expansion of additional buttons e.g. three or more total buttons to the sensing device while using only two pins on the processing device. Conversely since the conventional configuration has implemented a one to one configuration of sensor elements to pins of the processing device each button added requires an additional pin on the processing device. Using only two pins the scan time does not increase by adding additional buttons to implement three or more buttons on the sensing device. By maintaining two pins for three or more buttons the scan time to scan the sensor elements is not increased. In other words more buttons may be implemented without increasing the total scan time of the sensing device. Similarly the memory of the processing device is not increased to accommodate additional program data and or temporary data e.g. raw measurement data differential counts baseline measurement data and the like for the additional buttons.

The sensing device may use two capacitive switch relaxation oscillator CSR pins of a processing device to realize more than two buttons on the sensing device. For example the three or more buttons may be realized by using two sensing areas. Each sensing area may include a bar of conductive material and several interconnected sub bars. The sub bars of the two sensing areas are interleaved and are electrically isolated. In other words one set of interconnected sub bars are connected to one pin while the other set is coupled to the other pin. The two sensing areas make up three or more sensor elements that are used to form the touch sensor buttons. The different buttons contain different percentages of surface area of the sensing areas. Alternatively each sensing area may include two or more bars of conductive material with or without several interconnected sub bars.

For example a three button scheme using two pins includes one sensor element that has 100 of the first sensing area the second sensor element has 50 of the first sensing area and 50 of the second sensing area and the third sensor element has 100 of the second sensing area. Accordingly by scanning and measuring the capacitance e.g. capacitance variation of the capacitance minus the baseline as described below on the two pins to detect the presence of the conductive object the processing device can distinguish between the presence of the conductive object on the first second and third sensor elements. For example if the capacitance variation measured on the first pin is greater than zero and the capacitance variation measured on the second pin is equal to approximately zero then the first button has been pressed. Similarly if the capacitance variation measured on the first pin is equal to the capacitance variation measured on the second pin then the second button has been pressed. If the capacitance variation measured on the first pin is equal to approximately zero and the capacitance variation measured on the second pin is greater than zero then the third button has been pressed.

The embodiments herein may be beneficial to help reduce the pin count of the processing device. This may decrease the complexity of the processing device or allow the processing device to support additional functionality such as cursor positioning and selecting functionality keyboard functionality slider functionality or the like. Furthermore the embodiments may be beneficial to help reduce the scan time of the sensing device. Using two pins of the processing device to measure the capacitance on two sensing areas to realize three or more buttons is faster than measuring the capacitance on three or more touch sensor buttons of the conventional configuration e.g. one to one configuration . In addition using two pins reduces the RAM FLASH space needed in the sensing device as compared to the conventional configuration.

The embodiments described herein may be used in different types of operational panels of electronic devices. For example touch sensor buttons may be used on operational or control panels of household appliances consumer electronics mechanical devices and the like. Touch sensor buttons may also be used in conjunction with or in place of other user input devices such as keyboards mice trackballs or the like.

The processing device may also include an analog block array not illustrated . The analog block array is also coupled to the system bus. Analog block array also may be configured to implement a variety of analog circuits e.g. ADC analog filters etc. using in one embodiment configurable UMs. The analog block array may also be coupled to the GPIO .

As illustrated capacitance sensor may be integrated into processing device . Capacitance sensor may include analog I O for coupling to an external component such as touch sensor pad touch sensor slider touch sensor buttons and or other devices. Capacitance sensor and processing device are described in more detail below.

It should be noted that the embodiments described herein are not limited to touch sensor pads for notebook implementations but can be used in other capacitive sensing implementations for example the sensing device may be a touch sensor slider or a touch sensor button e.g. capacitance sensing button . Similarly the operations described herein are not limited to notebook cursor operations but can include other operations such as lighting control dimmer volume control graphic equalizer control speed control or other control operations requiring gradual adjustments. It should also be noted that these embodiments of capacitive sensing implementations may be used in conjunction with non capacitive sensing elements including but not limited to pick buttons sliders ex. display brightness and contrast scroll wheels multi media control ex. volume track advance etc handwriting recognition and numeric keypad operation.

In one embodiment the electronic system includes a touch sensor pad coupled to the processing device via bus . Touch sensor pad may include a multi dimension sensor array. The multi dimension sensor array comprises a plurality of sensor elements organized as rows and columns. In another embodiment the electronic system includes a touch sensor slider coupled to the processing device via bus . Touch sensor slider may include a single dimension sensor array. The single dimension sensor array comprises a plurality of sensor elements organized as rows or alternatively as columns. In another embodiment the electronic system includes a touch sensor button coupled to the processing device via bus . Touch sensor button may include a single dimension or multi dimension sensor array. The single or multi dimension sensor array comprises a plurality of sensor elements. For a touch sensor button the plurality of sensor elements may be coupled together to detect a presence of a conductive object over the entire surface of the sensing device. Alternatively the touch sensor button has a single sensor element to detect the presence of the conductive object. In one embodiment the touch sensor button may be a capacitance sensor element. Capacitance sensor elements may be used as non contact switches. These switches when protected by an insulating layer offer resistance to severe environments.

The electronic system may include any combination of one or more of the touch sensor pad touch sensor slider and or touch sensor button . In another embodiment the electronic system may also include non capacitance sensor elements coupled to the processing device via bus . The non capacitance sensor elements may include buttons light emitting diodes LEDs and other user interface devices such as a mouse a keyboard or other functional keys that do not require capacitance sensing. In one embodiment buses and may be a single bus. Alternatively these buses may be configured into any combination of one or more separate buses.

The processing device may also provide value added functionality such as keyboard control integration LEDs battery charger and general purpose I O as illustrated as non capacitance sensor elements . Non capacitance sensor elements are coupled to the GPIO .

Processing device may include internal oscillator clocks and communication block . The oscillator clocks block provides clock signals to one or more of the components of processing device . Communication block may be used to communicate with an external component such as a host processor via host interface I F line . Alternatively processing block may also be coupled to embedded controller to communicate with the external components such as host . Interfacing to the host can be through various methods. In one exemplary embodiment interfacing with the host may be done using a standard PS 2 interface to connect to an embedded controller which in turn sends data to the host via low pin count LPC interface. In some instances it may be beneficial for the processing device to do both touch sensor pad and keyboard control operations thereby freeing up the embedded controller for other housekeeping functions. In another exemplary embodiment interfacing may be done using a universal serial bus USB interface directly coupled to the host via host interface line . Alternatively the processing device may communicate to external components such as the host using industry standard interfaces such as USB PS 2 inter integrated circuit I2C bus or system packet interfaces SPI . The host and or embedded controller may be coupled to the processing device with a ribbon or flex cable from an assembly which houses the sensing device and processing device.

In one embodiment the processing device is configured to communicate with the embedded controller or the host to send and or receive data. The data may be a command or alternatively a signal. In an exemplary embodiment the electronic system may operate in both standard mouse compatible and enhanced modes. The standard mouse compatible mode utilizes the HID class drivers already built into the Operating System OS software of host . These drivers enable the processing device and sensing device to operate as a standard cursor control user interface device such as a two button PS 2 mouse. The enhanced mode may enable additional features such as scrolling reporting absolute position or disabling the sensing device such as when a mouse is plugged into the notebook. Alternatively the processing device may be configured to communicate with the embedded controller or the host using non OS drivers such as dedicated touch sensor pad drivers or other drivers known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

In other words the processing device may operate to communicate data e.g. commands or signals using hardware software and or firmware and the data may be communicated directly to the processing device of the host such as a host processor or alternatively may be communicated to the host via drivers of the host such as OS drivers or other non OS drivers. It should also be noted that the host may directly communicate with the processing device via host interface .

In one embodiment the data sent to the host from the processing device includes click double click movement of the cursor scroll up scroll down scroll left scroll right step Back and step Forward. Alternatively other user interface device commands may be communicated to the host from the processing device . These commands may be based on gestures occurring on the sensing device that are recognized by the processing device such as tap push hop and zigzag gestures. Alternatively other commands may be recognized. Similarly signals may be sent that indicate the recognition of these operations.

In particular a tap gesture for example may be when the finger e.g. conductive object is on the sensing device for less than a threshold time. If the time the finger is placed on the touchpad is greater than the threshold time it may be considered to be a movement of the cursor in the x or y axes. Scroll up scroll down scroll left and scroll right step back and step forward may be detected when the absolute position of the conductive object is within a pre defined area and movement of the conductive object is detected.

Processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate a multi chip module substrate or the like. Alternatively the components of processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one exemplary embodiment processing device may be a Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device manufactured by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or the like. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple microengines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

Capacitance sensor may be integrated into the IC of the processing device or alternatively in a separate IC. Alternatively descriptions of capacitance sensor may be generated and compiled for incorporation into other integrated circuits. For example behavioral level code describing capacitance sensor or portions thereof may be generated using a hardware descriptive language such as VHDL or Verilog and stored to a machine accessible medium e.g. CD ROM hard disk floppy disk etc. . Furthermore the behavioral level code can be compiled into register transfer level RTL code a netlist or even a circuit layout and stored to a machine accessible medium. The behavioral level code the RTL code the netlist and the circuit layout all represent various levels of abstraction to describe capacitance sensor .

It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above.

In one embodiment electronic system may be used in a notebook computer. Alternatively the electronic device may be used in other applications such as a mobile handset a personal data assistant PDA a keyboard a television a remote control a monitor a handheld multi media device a handheld video player a handheld gaming device or a control panel.

In one embodiment capacitance sensor may be a capacitive switch relaxation oscillator CSR . The CSR may have an array of capacitive touch switches using a current programmable relaxation oscillator an analog multiplexer digital counting functions and high level software routines to compensate for environmental and physical switch variations. The switch array may include combinations of independent switches sliding switches e.g. touch sensor slider and touch sensor pads implemented as a pair of orthogonal sliding switches. The CSR may include physical electrical and software components. The physical component may include the physical switch itself typically a pattern constructed on a printed circuit board PCB with an insulating cover a flexible membrane or a transparent overlay. The electrical component may include an oscillator or other means to convert a changed capacitance into a measured signal. The electrical component may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The software component may include detection and compensation software algorithms to convert the count value into a switch detection decision. For example in the case of slide switches or X Y touch sensor pads a calculation for finding position of the conductive object to greater resolution than the physical pitch of the switches may be used.

It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance. Although the embodiments described herein are described using a relaxation oscillator the present embodiments are not limited to using relaxation oscillators but may include other methods such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer or the like.

The current versus voltage phase shift measurement may include driving the capacitance through a fixed value resistor to yield voltage and current waveforms that are out of phase by a predictable amount. The drive frequency can be adjusted to keep the phase measurement in a readily measured range. The resistor capacitor charge timing may include charging the capacitor through a fixed resistor and measuring timing on the voltage ramp. Small capacitor values may require very large resistors for reasonable timing. The capacitive bridge divider may include driving the capacitor under test through a fixed reference capacitor. The reference capacitor and the capacitor under test form a voltage divider. The voltage signal is recovered with a synchronous demodulator which may be done in the processing device . The charge transfer may be conceptually similar to an R C charging circuit. In this method Cp is the capacitance being sensed. Cis the summing capacitor into which charge is transferred on successive cycles. At the start of the measurement cycle the voltage on Cis reset. The voltage on Cincreases exponentially and only slightly with each clock cycle. The time for this voltage to reach a specific threshold is measured with a counter. Additional details regarding these alternative embodiments have not been included so as to not obscure the present embodiments and because these alternative embodiments for measuring capacitance are known by those of ordinary skill in the art.

The conductive object in this case is a finger alternatively this technique may be applied to any conductive object for example a conductive door switch position sensor or conductive pen in a stylus tracking system.

The relaxation oscillator begins by charging the capacitor from a ground potential or zero voltage and continues to pile charge on the capacitor at a fixed charging current Ic until the voltage across the capacitor at node reaches a reference voltage or threshold voltage V. At V the relaxation oscillator allows the accumulated charge at node to discharge e.g. the capacitor to relax back to the ground potential and then the process repeats itself. In particular the output of comparator asserts a clock signal F e.g. F goes high which enables the reset switch . This resets the voltage on the capacitor at node to ground and the charge cycle starts again. The relaxation oscillator outputs a relaxation oscillator clock signal F having a frequency f dependent upon capacitance C of the capacitor and charging current Ic .

The comparator trip time of the comparator and reset switch add a fixed delay. The output of the comparator is synchronized with a reference system clock to guarantee that the comparator reset time is long enough to completely reset the charging voltage on capacitor . This sets a practical upper limit to the operating frequency. For example if capacitance C of the capacitor changes then fwill change proportionally according to Equation 1 . By comparing fof F against the frequency f of a known reference system clock signal REF CLK the change in capacitance C can be measured. Accordingly equations 2 and 3 below describe that a change in frequency between F and REF CLK is proportional to a change in capacitance of the capacitor . where 2 . 3 

In one embodiment a frequency comparator may be coupled to receive relaxation oscillator clock signal F and REF CLK compare their frequencies fand f respectively and output a signal indicative of the difference f between these frequencies. By monitoring f one can determine whether the capacitance of the capacitor has changed.

In one exemplary embodiment the relaxation oscillator may be built using a programmable timer e.g. timer to implement the comparator and reset switch . Alternatively the relaxation oscillator may be built using other circuiting. Relaxation oscillators are known in by those of ordinary skill in the art and accordingly additional details regarding their operation have not been included so as to not obscure the present embodiments.

Relaxation oscillator of includes all the components described with respect to and a selection circuit . The selection circuit is coupled to the plurality of sensor elements N the reset switch the current source and the comparator . Selection circuit may be used to allow the relaxation oscillator to measure capacitance on multiple sensor elements e.g. rows or columns . The selection circuit may be configured to sequentially select a sensor element of the plurality of sensor elements to provide the charge current and to measure the capacitance of each sensor element. In one exemplary embodiment the selection circuit is a multiplexer array of the relaxation oscillator . Alternatively selection circuit may be other circuitry outside the relaxation oscillator or even outside the capacitance sensor to select the sensor element to be measured. Capacitance sensor may include one relaxation oscillator and digital counter for the plurality of sensor elements of the sensor array. Alternatively capacitance sensor may include multiple relaxation oscillators and digital counters to measure capacitance on the plurality of sensor elements of the sensor array. The multiplexer array may also be used to ground the sensor elements that are not being measured. This may be done in conjunction with a dedicated pin in the GP10 port .

In another embodiment the capacitance sensor may be configured to simultaneously scan the sensor elements as opposed to being configured to sequentially scan the sensor elements as described above. For example the sensing device may include a sensor array having a plurality of rows and columns. The rows may be scanned simultaneously and the columns may be scanned simultaneously.

In one exemplary embodiment the voltages on all of the rows of the sensor array are simultaneously moved while the voltages of the columns are held at a constant voltage with the complete set of sampled points simultaneously giving a profile of the conductive object in a first dimension. Next the voltages on all of the rows are held at a constant voltage while the voltages on all the rows are simultaneously moved to obtain a complete set of sampled points simultaneously giving a profile of the conductive object in the other dimension.

In another exemplary embodiment the voltages on all of the rows of the sensor array are simultaneously moved in a positive direction while the voltages of the columns are moved in a negative direction. Next the voltages on all of the rows of the sensor array are simultaneously moved in a negative direction while the voltages of the columns are moved in a positive direction. This technique doubles the effect of any transcapacitance between the two dimensions or conversely halves the effect of any parasitic capacitance to the ground. In both methods the capacitive information from the sensing process provides a profile of the presence of the conductive object to the sensing device in each dimension. Alternatively other methods for scanning known by those of ordinary skill in the art may be used to scan the sensing device.

Digital counter is coupled to the output of the relaxation oscillator . Digital counter receives the relaxation oscillator output signal F . Digital counter is configured to count at least one of a frequency or a period of the relaxation oscillator output received from the relaxation oscillator.

As previously described with respect to the relaxation oscillator when a finger or conductive object is placed on the switch the capacitance increases from Cp to Cp Cf so the relaxation oscillator output signal F decreases. The relaxation oscillator output signal F is fed to the digital counter for measurement. There are two methods for counting the relaxation oscillator output signal frequency measurement and period measurement. In one embodiment the digital counter may include two multiplexers and . Multiplexers and are configured to select the inputs for the PWM and the timer for the two measurement methods frequency and period measurement methods. Alternatively other selection circuits may be used to select the inputs for the PWM and the time . In another embodiment multiplexers and are not included in the digital counter for example the digital counter may be configured in one or the other measurement configuration.

In the frequency measurement method the relaxation oscillator output signal is counted for a fixed period of time. The counter is read to obtain the number of counts during the gate time. This method works well at low frequencies where the oscillator reset time is small compared to the oscillator period. A pulse width modulator PWM is clocked for a fixed period by a derivative of the system clock VC which is a divider from system clock e.g. 24 MHz . Pulse width modulation is a modulation technique that generates variable length pulses to represent the amplitude of an analog input signal in this case VC . The output of PWM enables timer e.g. 16 bit . The relaxation oscillator output signal clocks the timer . The timer is reset at the start of the sequence and the count value is read out at the end of the gate period.

In the period measurement method the relaxation oscillator output signal gates a counter which is clocked by the system clock e.g. 24 MHz . In order to improve sensitivity and resolution multiple periods of the oscillator are counted with the PWM . The output of PWM is used to gate the timer . In this method the relaxation oscillator output signal drives the clock input of PWM . As previously described pulse width modulation is a modulation technique that generates variable length pulses to represent the amplitude of an analog input signal in this case the relaxation oscillator output signal . The output of the PWM enables timer e.g. 16 bit which is clocked at the system clock frequency e.g. 24 MHz . When the output of PWM is asserted e.g. goes high the count starts by releasing the capture control. When the terminal count of the PWM is reached the capture signal is asserted e.g. goes high stopping the count and setting the PWM s interrupt. The timer value is read in this interrupt. The relaxation oscillator is indexed to the next switch e.g. capacitor to be measured and the count sequence is started again.

The two counting methods may have equivalent performance in sensitivity and signal to noise ratio SNR . The period measurement method may have a slightly faster data acquisition rate but this rate is dependent on software loads and the values of the switch capacitances. The frequency measurement method has a fixed switch data acquisition rate.

The length of the counter and the detection time required for the switch are determined by sensitivity requirements. Small changes in the capacitance on capacitor result in small changes in frequency. In order to find these small changes it may be necessary to count for a considerable time.

At startup or boot the switches e.g. capacitors N are scanned and the count values for each switch with no actuation are stored as a baseline array Cp . The presence of a finger on the switch is determined by the difference in counts between a stored value for no switch actuation and the acquired value with switch actuation referred to here as n. The sensitivity of a single switch is approximately 

The value of n should be large enough for reasonable resolution and clear indication of switch actuation. This drives switch construction decisions.

Cf should be as large a fraction of Cp as possible. In one exemplary embodiment the fraction of Cf Cp ranges between approximately 0.01 to approximately 2.0. Alternatively other fractions may be used for Cf Cp. Since Cf is determined by finger area and distance from the finger to the switch s conductive traces through the over lying insulator the baseline capacitance Cp should be minimized. The baseline capacitance Cp includes the capacitance of the switch pad plus any parasitics including routing and chip pin capacitance.

In switch array applications variations in sensitivity should be minimized. If there are large differences in n one switch may actuate at 1.0 cm while another may not actuate until direct contact. This presents a non ideal user interface device. There are numerous methods for balancing the sensitivity. These may include precisely matching on board capacitance with PC trace length modification adding balance capacitors on each switch s PC board trace and or adapting a calibration factor to each switch to be applied each time the switch is tested.

In one embodiment the PCB design may be adapted to minimize capacitance including thicker PCBs where possible. In one exemplary embodiment a 0.062 inch thick PCB is used. Alternatively other thicknesses may be used for example a 0.015 inch thick PCB.

It should be noted that the count window should be long enough for n to be a significant number. In one embodiment the significant number can be as little as 10 or alternatively as much as several hundred. In one exemplary embodiment where Cf is 1.0 of Cp a typical weak switch and where the switch threshold is set at a count value of 20 n is found to be 

Adding some margin to yield 2500 counts and running the frequency measurement method at 1.0 MHz the detection time for the switch is approximately 2.5 microseconds. In the frequency measurement method the frequency difference between a switch with and without actuation i.e. CP CF vs. CP is approximately 

This shows that the sensitivity variation between one channel and another is a function of the square of the difference in the two channels static capacitances. This sensitivity difference can be compensated using routines in the high level Application Programming Interfaces APIs .

In the period measurement method the count difference between a switch with and without actuation i.e. CP CF vs. CP is approximately 

The charge currents are typically lower and the period is longer to increase sensitivity or the number of periods for which fis counted can be increased. In either method by matching the static parasitic capacitances Cp of the individual switches the repeatability of detection increases making all switches work approximately at the same difference. Compensation for this variation can be done in software at runtime. The compensation algorithms for both the frequency method and period method may be included in the high level APIs.

Some implementations of this circuit use a current source programmed by a fixed resistor value. If the range of capacitance to be measured changes external components i.e. the resistor should be adjusted.

Using the multiplexer array multiple sensor elements may be sequentially scanned to provide current to and measure the capacitance from the capacitors e.g. sensor elements as previously described. In other words while one sensor element is being measured the remaining sensor elements are grounded using the GPIO port . This drive and multiplex arrangement bypasses the existing GPIO to connect the selected pin to an internal analog multiplexer mux bus. The capacitor charging current e.g. current source and reset switch are connected to the analog mux bus. This may limit the pin count requirement to simply the number of switches e.g. capacitors N to be addressed. In one exemplary embodiment no external resistors or capacitors are required inside or outside the processing device to enable operation.

The capacitor charging current for the relaxation oscillator is generated in a register programmable current output DAC also known as IDAC . Accordingly the current source is a current DAC or IDAC. The IDAC output current may be set by an 8 bit value provided by the processing device such as from the processing core . The 8 bit value may be stored in a register or in memory.

Estimating and measuring PCB capacitances may be difficult the oscillator reset time may add to the oscillator period especially at higher frequencies and there may be some variation to the magnitude of the IDAC output current with operating frequency. Accordingly the optimum oscillation frequency and operating current for a particular switch array may be determined to some degree by experimentation.

In many capacitive switch designs the two plates e.g. and of the sensing capacitor are actually adjacent sensor elements that are electrically isolated e.g. PCB pads or traces as indicated in . Typically one of these plates is grounded. Layouts for touch sensor slider e.g. linear slide switches and touch sensor pad applications have switches that are immediately adjacent. In this case all of the switches that are not active are grounded through the GPIO of the processing device dedicated to that pin. The actual capacitance between adjacent plates is small Cp but the capacitance of the active plate and its PCB trace back to the processing device to ground when detecting the presence of the conductive object may be considerably higher Cp Cf . The capacitance of two parallel plates is given by the following equation 

The dimensions of equation 8 are in meters. This is a very simple model of the capacitance. The reality is that there are fringing effects that substantially increase the switch to ground and PCB trace to ground capacitance.

Switch sensitivity i.e. actuation distance may be increased by one or more of the following 1 increasing board thickness to increase the distance between the active switch and any parasitics 2 minimizing PC trace routing underneath switches 3 utilizing a grided ground with 50 or less fill if use of a ground plane is absolutely necessary 4 increasing the spacing between switch pads and any adjacent ground plane 5 increasing pad area 6 decreasing thickness of any insulating overlay or 7 verifying that there is no air gap between the PC pad surface and the touching finger.

There is some variation of switch sensitivity as a result of environmental factors. A baseline update routine which compensates for this variation may be provided in the high level APIs.

Sliding switches are used for control requiring gradual adjustments. Examples include a lighting control dimmer volume control graphic equalizer and speed control. These switches are mechanically adjacent to one another. Actuation of one switch results in partial actuation of physically adjacent switches. The actual position in the sliding switch is found by computing the centroid location of the set of switches activated.

In applications for touch sensor sliders e.g. sliding switches and touch sensor pads it is often necessary to determine finger or other capacitive object position to more resolution than the native pitch of the individual switches. The contact area of a finger on a sliding switch or a touch pad is often larger than any single switch. In one embodiment in order to calculate the interpolated position using a centroid the array is first scanned to verify that a given switch location is valid. The requirement is for some number of adjacent switch signals to be above a noise threshold. When the strongest signal is found this signal and those immediately adjacent are used to compute a centroid 

The calculated value will almost certainly be fractional. In order to report the centroid to a specific resolution for example a range of 0 to 100 for 12 switches the centroid value may be multiplied by a calculated scalar. It may be more efficient to combine the interpolation and scaling operations into a single calculation and report this result directly in the desired scale. This may be handled in the high level APIs. Alternatively other methods may be used to interpolate the position of the conductive object.

A physical touchpad assembly is a multi layered module to detect a conductive object. In one embodiment the multi layer stack up of a touchpad assembly includes a PCB an adhesive layer and an overlay. The PCB includes the processing device and other components such as the connector to the host necessary for operations for sensing the capacitance. These components are on the non sensing side of the PCB. The PCB also includes the sensor array on the opposite side the sensing side of the PCB. Alternatively other multi layer stack ups may be used in the touchpad assembly.

The PCB may be made of standard materials such as FR4 or Kapton e.g. flexible PCB . In either case the processing device may be attached e.g. soldered directly to the sensing PCB e.g. attached to the non sensing side of the PCB . The PCB thickness varies depending on multiple variables including height restrictions and sensitivity requirements. In one embodiment the PCB thickness is at least approximately 0.3 millimeters mm . Alternatively the PCB may have other thicknesses. It should be noted that thicker PCBs may yield better results. The PCB length and width is dependent on individual design requirements for the device on which the sensing device is mounted such as a notebook or mobile handset.

The adhesive layer is directly on top of the PCB sensing array and is used to affix the overlay to the overall touchpad assembly. Typical material used for connecting the overlay to the PCB is non conductive adhesive such as 3M 467 or 468. In one exemplary embodiment the adhesive thickness is approximately 0.05 mm. Alternatively other thicknesses may be used.

The overlay may be non conductive material used to protect the PCB circuitry to environmental elements and to insulate the user s finger e.g. conductive object from the circuitry. Overlay can be ABS plastic polycarbonate glass or Mylar Alternatively other materials known by those of ordinary skill in the art may be used. In one exemplary embodiment the overlay has a thickness of approximately 1.0 mm. In another exemplary embodiment the overlay thickness has a thickness of approximately 2.0 mm. Alternatively other thicknesses may be used.

The sensor array may be a grid like pattern of sensor elements e.g. capacitive elements used in conjunction with the processing device to detect a presence of a conductive object such as finger to a resolution greater than that which is native. The touch sensor pad layout pattern maximizes the area covered by conductive material such as copper in relation to spaces necessary to define the rows and columns of the sensor array.

Alternating columns in correspond to x and y axis elements. The y axis sensor elements K are illustrated as black diamonds in and the x axis sensor elements L are illustrated as white diamonds in and . It should be noted that other shapes may be used for the sensor elements. In another embodiment the columns and row may include vertical and horizontal bars e.g. rectangular shaped bars however this design may include additional layers in the PCB to allow the vertical and horizontal bars to be positioned on the PCB so that they are not in contact with one another.

As illustrated in the top conductive layer includes the sensor elements for both the columns and the rows of the sensor array as well as the connections between the sensor elements of the columns of the sensor array. The bottom conductive layer includes the conductive paths that connect the sensor elements of the rows that reside in the top conductive layer . The conductive paths between the sensor elements of the rows use vias to connect to one another in the bottom conductive layer . Vias go from the top conductive layer through the dielectric layer to the bottom conductive layer . Coating layers and are applied to the surfaces opposite to the surfaces that are coupled to the dielectric layer on both the top and bottom conductive layers and .

It should be noted that the space between coating layers and and dielectric layer which does not include any conductive material may be filled with the same material as the coating layers or dielectric layer. Alternatively it may be filled with other materials.

It should be noted that the present embodiments are not be limited to connecting the sensor elements of the rows using vias to the bottom conductive layer but may include connecting the sensor elements of the columns using vias to the bottom conductive layer . Furthermore the present embodiments are not limited two layer configurations but may include disposing the sensor elements on multiple layers such as three or four layer configurations.

When pins are not being sensed only one pin is sensed at a time they are routed to ground. By surrounding the sensing device e.g. touch sensor pad with a ground plane the exterior elements have the same fringe capacitance to ground as the interior elements.

In one embodiment an IC including the processing device may be directly placed on the non sensor side of the PCB. This placement does not necessary have to be in the center. The processing device IC is not required to have a specific set of dimensions for a touch sensor pad nor a certain number of pins. Alternatively the IC may be placed somewhere external to the PCB.

Each of the conventional touch sensor buttons may be made of a sensor element of conductive material such as copper clad. The conductive material may be formed in a circular shape illustrated in in a rectangular shape or in a square shape illustrated in . The touch sensor buttons may be capacitance sensor buttons which may be used as non contact switches. These switches when protected by an insulating layer offer resistance to severe environments.

The sensing device of includes two sensing areas and of conductive material that are electrically isolated. The sensing areas of conductive area are used to make up the three buttons . In particular button includes a sensor element having a surface area of one conductive material illustrated as white surface area of button . Similarly button includes a sensor element having a surface area of another conductive material illustrated as hashed surface area of button . The conductive materials may be similar or dissimilar materials but more importantly are electrically isolated from one another. For example button is coupled to a first pin and button is coupled to a second pin of processing device . Button however includes a sensor element having a surface area of two conductive materials illustrated as white and hashed surface areas of button that are electrically isolated. A portion first portion of the sensor element of button is coupled to the conductive material of button and another portion second portion is coupled to the conductive material of button .

In one embodiment first portion is coupled to the sensor element of button using a conductive line and second portion is coupled to the sensor element button using a conductive line . The conductive lines and may be conductive traces printed on the surface of the PCB. Alternatively conductive lines may be conductive paths of conductive material that coupled the conductive material of the sensor elements and to the pins of the processing device .

The processing device scans the touch sensor buttons using the capacitance sensors and and measures the capacitance on the two sensing areas of conductive material that realize the touch sensor buttons . The processing device is operable to recognize a first button operation on the first sensor element a second button operation on the second sensor element and third button operation on the first and second portions of the third sensor element. Accordingly the capacitance sensors of the processing device are not coupled to the touch sensor buttons in a one to one configuration like that of the conventional sensing device.

In another embodiment the processing device may include only one capacitance sensor that is coupled to a selection circuit. The selection circuit operates to select one conductive path to scan and measure. The processing device includes two pins to couple to the two sensing areas of conductive material that make up the three or more buttons. In another embodiment the processing device may include only one pin and be coupled to a selection circuit that is external to the processing device that selects between the two sensing areas of conductive material.

In one embodiment the processing device that is coupled to the sensing device of three or more touch sensor buttons includes one more capacitance sensors coupled to the first and second sensor elements. The one or more capacitance sensors are operable to measure capacitance on the three or more sensor elements. For example if the capacitance variation measured on the first pin is greater than zero and the capacitance variation measured on the second pin is equal to approximately zero then the first button has been pressed. Similarly if the capacitance variation measured on the first pin is equal to the capacitance variation measured on the second pin then the second button has been pressed. If the capacitance variation measured on the first pin is equal to approximately zero and the capacitance variation measured on the second pin is greater than zero then the third button has been pressed.

In one embodiment the one or more capacitance sensors e.g. and may include a relaxation oscillator. The relaxation oscillator may be similar to the relaxation oscillator described above which includes a current source a selection circuit a comparator and a reset switch. The relaxation oscillator may be coupled to a digital counter that is operable to count at least one of a frequency or a period of a relaxation oscillator output received from the relaxation oscillator.

In one embodiment the method may be performed by detecting a presence of a conductive object on a sensing device and recognizing three or more button operations performed by the conductive object using two sensing areas of the sensing device. In one embodiment the operation of recognizing the three or more button operations may include recognizing a first button operation when the presence of the conductive object is detected on a first sensing area of the two sensing areas of the sensing device recognizing a second button operation when the presence of the conductive object is detected on a second sensing area of the two sensing areas of the sensing device and recognizing one or more button operations when the presence of the conductive object is detected on the first and second sensing areas and .

The method may include the operation of determining a capacitance on each of the two sensing areas and determining the three or more button operations based on the determined capacitance. The sensing areas and may be scanned sequentially or alternatively may be scanned simultaneously by one or more capacitance sensors of the processing device .

In one embodiment the two sensing areas may be used to realize three buttons as illustrated in . Alternatively the two sensing areas may be used to realize more than three button areas. In one embodiment the sensor elements of the touch sensor buttons may be circular shaped as illustrated in . Alternatively the sensor elements may have other shapes such as rectangles squares ovals hexagon octagons or the like.

In one embodiment portions and are substantially equal in surface area of the sensor element of button . Alternatively portions and are not equal in surface area. In one embodiment the portions of sensor element of button are semi circularly shaped. Alternatively the portions of the sensor element may have other shapes.

In the embodiment of conductive lines and are conductive traces that couple the first and second portions and to the first and third sensor elements of button and respectively. The conductive lines and may be comprised of similar or dissimilar materials as the conductive material of the sensor elements. It should be noted that first portion sensor element of button and conductive line are electrically isolated from second portion sensor element of button and conductive line . Accordingly the two sensing areas e.g. and are comprised of these electrically isolated conductive materials.

In one embodiment the first and second portions and each have a surface area that is substantially equal. Alternatively the portions may have surface areas in other proportions.

In the embodiment of conductive lines and are conductive traces that couple the first and second portions and to the first and third sensor elements of button and respectively. The conductive lines and may be comprised of similar or dissimilar materials as the conductive material of the sensor elements. It should be noted that first portion sensor element of button and conductive line are electrically isolated from second portion sensor element of button and conductive line . Accordingly the two sensing areas e.g. and are comprised of these electrically isolated conductive materials.

In one embodiment the first and second portions and each have a surface area that is substantially equal. Alternatively the portions may have surface areas in other proportions.

The shapes of the sensor elements and the portions of the sensor elements are not limited to the shapes illustrated and described herein but may include other shapes. For example include embodiments of rectangular and square shapes for the sensor elements and the portions of the sensor elements. In addition the number of sensor elements in the sensing device is not limited to three but may be greater than three. For example illustrate embodiments of four and five touch sensor buttons however more sensor elements than five may also be used.

The sensing device of includes two sensing areas of conductive material that are electrically isolated. The sensing areas of conductive area are used to make up the four buttons . In particular button includes a sensor element having a surface area of one conductive material illustrated as white surface area of button . Similarly button includes a sensor element having a surface area of another conductive material illustrated as hashed surface area of button . The conductive materials may be similar or dissimilar materials but more importantly are electrically isolated from one another. For example button is coupled to a first pin and button is coupled to a second pin of processing device . Buttons and however include a sensor element having a surface area of two conductive materials illustrated as white and hashed surface areas of buttons and that are electrically isolated. A portion first portion of the sensor elements of buttons and is coupled to the conductive material of button and another portion second portion is coupled to the conductive material of button .

In one embodiment first portion is coupled to the sensor element of button using a conductive line and second portion is coupled to the sensor element button using a conductive line . The conductive lines and may be conductive traces printed on the surface of the PCB. Alternatively conductive lines and may be conductive paths of conductive material that coupled the conductive material of the sensor elements and to the pins of the processing device .

In one embodiment each sensor element of buttons and comprises two surface areas one surface area being the first portion and the other surface area being the second portion . The surface areas may be one solid shape or alternatively the surface areas may be interleaved sub traces. For example the first conductive line is a first conductive trace and the first conductive trace has one or more sub traces e.g. and the second conductive line is a second conductive trace that has one or more sub traces e.g. . In one embodiment at least one sub trace of the first conductive trace is interleaved with at least one sub trace of the second conductive trace . Alternatively the sub traces of the first and second conductive traces are not interleaved.

The sensor elements of buttons and each have a surface area ratio between the surface area of the first portion and the second portion . In one embodiment the surface area ratio of button is approximately 25 of the first portion to approximately 75 of the second portion 25 75 . The surface area ratio of button is approximately 75 of the first portion to approximately 25 of the second portion 75 25 . Alternatively the surface area ratios of buttons and may be switched in surface area ratios e.g. 75 25 for button and 25 75 for button . In another embodiment button and button may have other surface area ratios ranging from 99 1 to 49 51 and vice versa.

In the embodiment of buttons and each include seven sub traces sub traces and sub traces . In particular button includes four sub traces of the first portion and three sub traces of the second portion . Button includes three sub traces of the first portion and four sub traces of the second portion . Accordingly the surface area ratio of button is 4 7 of the first portion to 3 7 of the second portion and the surface area ratio of button is 3 7 of the first portion to 4 7 of the second portion . Alternatively other total number of sub traces and other combinations of sub traces may be used to form the different surface area ratios.

The sensing device of includes two sensing areas illustrates a white and hashed surface areas of conductive material that are electrically isolated. The sensing areas of conductive area are used to make up the five buttons .

In one embodiment each sensor element of buttons and comprises two surface areas one surface area being the first portion and the other surface area being the second portion . The surface areas may be one solid shape or alternatively the surface areas may be interleaved sub traces. For example the first conductive line is a first conductive trace and the first conductive trace has twelve sub traces and the second conductive line is a second conductive trace that has twelve sub traces . At least two sub traces of both the first and second conductive traces are interleaved in each sensor element.

In this embodiment the surface area ratio of button is approximately 6 8 of the first portion to approximately 2 8 of the second portion . The surface area ratio of button is approximately 4 8 25 of the first portion to approximately 4 8 50 of the second portion . The surface area ratio of button is approximately 2 8 of the first portion to approximately 6 8 of the second portion .

In another embodiment the surface area ratio of button is approximately 25 of the first portion to approximately 75 of the second portion . The surface area ratio of button is approximately 50 of the first portion to approximately 50 of the second portion . The surface area ratio of button is approximately 75 of the first portion to approximately 25 of the second portion .

In another embodiment the surface area ratio of button is approximately 33 of the first portion to approximately 67 of the second portion . The surface area ratio of button is approximately 50 of the first portion to approximately 50 of the second portion . The surface area ratio of button is approximately 67 of the first portion to approximately 33 of the second portion .

Alternatively other surface area ratios total number of sub traces and other combinations of sub traces may be used to form the sensor elements that include the two conductive materials.

As described with respect to the embodiments above the processing device can scan the touch sensor buttons of or the touch sensor buttons of using one or more capacitance sensors and measure the capacitance on the two sensing areas of conductive material that realize the touch sensor buttons or . Accordingly the processing device is operable to recognize a first button operation on the first sensor element a second button operation on the second sensor element and third and fourth button operations or third fourth and fifth button operations on the first and second portions of the third and fourth sensor elements or third fourth and fifth sensor elements .

It should be noted that although the sensor elements that include the two portions are illustrated and described as being inside or in between the two sensor elements that are coupled to the pins the sensor elements that include the two portions may be disposed in other positions with respect to the other two sensor elements.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a machine readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signal e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the machine readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the communication medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

