---

title: Intra-oral device for protecting oral tissues during radiation treatment
abstract: An intra-oral device for positioning oral tissues during medical treatment, for example, radiation treatment. The device includes upper and lower dental arch members configured to engage the maxillary and mandibular teeth or edentulous arch(es) of a patient, respectively. The upper and lower dental arch members are operatively coupled to provide a dental arch assembly. A protective element to displace or depress a patient's tongue is secured at a suitable working position with respect to the dental arch assembly. In an embodiment, provision is made for three-dimensional spatial adjustment of the protective element to a desired location, at least during initial fitting and assembly. The device is then secured to allow consistent repetition of the oral tissue positioning from treatment to treatment. The protective element may be configured to engage the tongue of a patient so that the tongue may be selectively positioned for treatment and/or diagnostic procedures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09504537&OS=09504537&RS=09504537
owner: GRAYDUCK STENTS, LLC
number: 09504537
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121124
---
This application is a continuation in part and claims priority from currently pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 103 441 filed May 9 2011 which application claimed priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 347 985 filed May 25 2010. The disclosures of each of the aforementioned patent applications including their specification claims and drawing figures are hereby incorporated herein by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The patent owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This application relates to devices for reducing exposure of certain tissues to ionizing radiation during treatment of head and neck cancers in patients and to methods for use of such devices.

As is generally known cancer treatment can be complex and invasive. In some cases patients need to be subjected to high dose radiation treatment in order to eradicate and prevent additional cancerous tissue growth. In cases of head and neck cancer cancerous tissue growth is typically located on the floor of the mouth cheek lining tonsils pharynx the tongue and or lymph nodes. When radiation treatment is applied in cases of head and neck cancer some damage often occurs to non cancerous tissues that lie in the pathway of the beam treating the cancer. For example a patient s tongue may not be invaded by a cancer when the cancer is in the tonsils but the tongue may be damaged by ionizing radiation that passes through the tongue in order to treat the tonsillar tumor. Thus it would be advantageous if non cancerous tissue could be spared radiation damage by altering the beam path and or by moving such non cancerous tissue physically out of the way of the radiation beam.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual apparatus that may be constructed or used to practice the methods taught herein and to manufacture the intra oral devices as set forth herein. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the devices taught herein and for the alternate configurations thereof and for the methods of use of the devices. However various other elements for such intra oral devices for the methods of use thereof may be utilized within the teachings hereof and within the coverage of the claims set forth herein.

Intra oral devices for protecting head and neck tissues during radiation treatment and method s for use of various embodiments for such devices are described herein. In an intra oral device is shown being fitted to a patient P for movement of the patient s tongue T which may be envisaged from the illustration to be in an embodiment to the patient s right. In a substantially mirror image configuration to intra oral device just noted above is provided in the form of an intra oral device the intra oral device is configured for movement of a patient P s tongue T to the left. In an intra oral device is depicted which is configured for guiding movement of a patient P s tongue T downward. Such intra oral devices or or or similar embodiments using the teachings hereof may be useful in the reduction of damage to non cancerous tissues of an oral cancer patient during radiation treatment. The intra oral devices or provide structures such as tongue deviation paddle for movement of a patient s tongue to the right or tongue deviation paddle for movement of a patient s tongue to the left either of which can move a patient s tongue out of the way of a radiation beam during treatment. The intra oral device may include a tongue depressing paddle which may be used to depress a patient P s tongue T out of the way of a radiation beam during treatment. Structures such as tongue deviation paddles or which generally may be referenced herein without regard to handedness as tongue deviation paddle or a tongue depressing paddle may also hold a patient s tongue T or other adjacent tissues steady in a repeatable position so that a multi dose radiation beam can be better targeted. Use of such intra oral devices minimizes exposure and resulting damage from radiation to adjacent non cancerous tissues. In various embodiments and in methods of use thereof intra oral devices or or or other embodiments and configurations described herein may be configured to protect a patient s healthy tongue from the negative effects of radiation. In other embodiments and methods of use thereof intra oral devices or or or other embodiments and configurations made possible by the descriptions herein may be configured to stabilize a cancerous lesion on a patient s tongue so that a radiation beam will have a relatively fixed stable target volume during radiation treatment.

As just mentioned above one component useful in an embodiment of intra oral devices or which provides tongue deviating functionality is a tongue deviating paddle or . Such a tongue deviating paddle or may be disposed in a roughly vertical configuration such as depicted in . However note that the tongue deviating paddles need not be oriented roughly vertically and may be rotated to any desired angle. As noted in and elsewhere herein a tongue deviating paddle noted with reference numeral may be configured for urging a tongue to a patient s right. For example as noted in and elsewhere herein a tongue deviating paddle noted with reference numeral may be configured for urging a tongue to a patient s left. In an embodiment one of the uses of a tongue deviating paddle whether or is to move a patient s tongue away from a side of the patient s mouth that has a cancer to be treated by radiation. Various embodiments for an intra oral device or may be configured such that the position of a tongue deviating paddle or may be adjusted to allow for customizing the device or to the particular size and shape of the mouth and tongue of a particular patient.

Additionally in an embodiment of an intra oral device or a tongue deviating paddle or may be alternately be disposed substantially horizontally in order to depress raise or otherwise stabilize the patient s tongue. In such manner the positioning of tongue deviating paddle or may optionally also include support of a tongue toward one side or another of a patient s mouth. Thus in an embodiment for an intra oral device or a tongue deviating paddle or may be disposed substantially horizontally to upwardly lift a tongue or to downwardly depress a tongue in order to hold a patient s tongue away from a cancerous zone in the patient s mouth so as to minimize or prevent exposure of a patient s tongue or other tissues to radiation.

Intra oral devices or alternate embodiments according to the teachings hereof may be provided in or assembled from kits as noted in having components of various predetermined sizes. For example small sized components with small upper and lower dental arch members in a dental arch assembly with small tongue deviating paddles and and a small tongue depressing paddle may be provided. In another embodiment medium sized components may be provided with medium sized upper and lower dental arch members in a dental arch assembly and medium sized tongue deviating and or medium size tongue depressing paddles. In other embodiments large sized components may be provided having large upper and lower dental arch members in a dental arch assembly and large tongue deviating and or tongue depressing paddles all of which may be adapted for different sizes and shapes of mouths encountered in various patients P to be treated. Yet further embodiments may be configured in a mix match combination mixing large medium or small components to accommodate unusual mouth sizes or treatment environments as may be encountered in various patients. As depicted in a kit for fabrication of an intra oral device or or may include various components and selected components may be assembled into an embodiment having primarily tongue deviating functionality or into an embodiment having primarily tongue depressing functionality.

Attention is directed to which shows an intra oral device having a tongue depressing function using a tongue depressing paddle . The purpose of the tongue depressing paddle is to move a patient s tongue down for example during treatment of a maxillary cancer or to stabilize a patient s tongue in a secure position for example during treatment of a mandibular or tongue cancer. The intra oral device may be configured such that the position of a tongue depressing paddle may be adjusted to allow for customizing to the particular size and shape of the mouth and size and shape of a tongue of a particular patient.

In various embodiments an upper dental arch member may be separately provided. In a kit e.g. see a selection of upper dental arch members may be provided in preselected sizes having a configuration complementary in size and shape to that of maxillary dental arch dimensions found in a selected group of anticipated patients. In an embodiment an upper dental arch member may be provided in a generally U shaped e.g. horseshoe shaped configuration. An upper dental arch member may be provided in various sizes such as small medium large or other sizes.

As may be appreciated from in an embodiment an upper dental arch member may have an upper side . An upwardly directed upper receiving trough may be disposed on or in the upper side . As seen in the upper receiving trough may be adapted to receive a fill in material which fill in material may be molded to customize the fit of the upper dental arch member to an individual patient s maxillary teeth see or edentulous maxillary arch. The upper receiving trough may be variously adapted to receive a moldable compound for fabrication into a bite pad for secure receipt of the occlusal surface of a patient s maxillary teeth or edentulous arch. Optionally as seen in in order to assist in the retention of the fill in material in the upper receiving trough an inwardly directed wedge and or an outwardly shaped wedge may be provided such as by way of post molding machining of upper dental arch or by using multipart fabrication techniques.

In various embodiments a lower dental arch member may be provided. In a kit see a selection of various sizes for a lower dental arch member may be provided in a configuration complementary in size and shape to that of mandibular dental arch dimensions expected to be found in an anticipated patient population. In an embodiment a lower dental arch member may be provided in a generally U shaped e.g. horseshoe shaped configuration. A lower dental arch member may be provided in various sizes such as small medium large or other sizes.

As may be appreciated from in an embodiment a lower dental arch member may have a lower side on or in which a downwardly directed lower receiving trough is provided. The downwardly directed receiving trough may be adapted to receive a fill in material which fill in material may be molded to customize the fit of the lower dental arch member to an individual patient s mandibular teeth see or edentulous mandibular arch. The lower receiving trough may be variously adapted to receive a moldable compound for fabrication into a bite pad for secure receipt of the occlusal surface of a patient s mandibular teeth or edentulous arch. Optionally as seen in in order to assist in the retention of the fill in material in the lower receiving trough an inwardly directed wedge and or an outwardly shaped wedge may be provided such as by way of post molding machining of lower dental arch or by using multipart fabrication techniques.

In various embodiments the upper dental arch member and the lower dental arch member are joined together to provide a dental arch assembly . As seen in in an embodiment the upper dental arch member may be connected to the lower dental arch member by an anterior strut . In an embodiment posterior struts and may connect the upper dental arch member and lower dental arch member . As noted in in an embodiment upper dental arch member may include a first end and a second end . In an embodiment the lower dental arch member may include a third end and a fourth end . The upper dental arch member and the lower dental arch member may be joined to each other at near or adjacent their respective posterior aspect that is the open end of their U shape . On one side at adjacent or near first end and third end upper member and lower member may be joined together. On an opposing side at adjacent or near second end and fourth end upper member and lower member may be joined together.

In an embodiment as seen in struts and may allow anterior posterior placement at selected locations between the upper dental arch member and the lower dental arch member . Thus the upper dental arch member and the lower dental arch member may be moved forward F or rearward R with respect to each other as noted by reference arrows in . In an embodiment provision of adjustable struts and for example sliding or hinged components for attachment to one or both of the upper dental arch member and lower dental arch member may allow adjustment for a fabricating a dental arch assembly with regard to the amount of interincisal opening.

As seen in an embodiment the struts and may include therein an adjustable guide G which may be provided in the form of a spherical bearing or ball joint and respectively. Such ball joints and may have therein a through joint aperture such as a slot or hole defined by internal sidewall or respectively which allow a tongue deviating paddle or tongue depressing paddle to be adjusted in a medial and or lateral direction that is in a front to back or in a side to side fashion an in various embodiments in up and down directions as well.

In an embodiment at time of fabrication the struts and may be adjustable so as to allow the fabricator to conform the upper dental arch member and lower dental arch member to a patient s jaw and or tongue shapes or treatment objectives. In such embodiment at time of fabrication the struts and or may be moved forward or backward so as to configure the upper dental arch member at a suitable location relative to the lower dental arch member.

Attention is now directed to where posterior stabilizing rods and are shown. Rods and provide structural connector for example between dental arch and tongue deviating paddle or tongue depressing paddle . Rods and may be sized and shaped to be inserted through the through joint aperture such as slots or holes defined by sidewalls and or in the ball joints and or of struts and or . As seen in posterior stabilizing rods and may be utilized to locate and secure a tongue depressing paddle . Alternately as depicted in a posterior stabilizing rod such as rod may be utilized to locate and secure a tongue deviating paddle .

As seen in at the anterior aspect that is at the front of the device an anterior strut may be attached to join the upper member and the lower member in such a way that the anterior strut may be provided of selected height between a lower side placed at lower dental arch member and an upper side placed at upper dental arch member see and thus can adjustment may be tolerated with respect to differences in the interincisal distance in various patients. An anterior strut may also provide a housing for a rotating spherical bearing or ball joint that may have a running through it a guide hole or slot defined by interior sidewalls . The anterior strut may be configured to support and serve as an attachment point as regards the anterior posterior location of a tongue deviating paddle or a tongue depressing paddle . The anterior strut may also be configured to support and serve as an X Y and Z axis placement locator for a tongue deviating paddle or a tongue depressing paddle . For example see wherein a range of motion limit R for an exemplary adjustable guide G such as ball joint in strut is illustrated functionality may be similar for adjustable guides G in struts and . In an embodiment a connector portion CP is sized and shaped for adjustable engagement with the adjustable guide G. In an embodiment such adjustable guides G may allow adjustment along one or more of a a pitch axis b roll axis c yaw axis and d a linear axis . As shown in a midline rod may provided sized and shaped complementary to a through joint aperture slot or hole defined by sidewalls in ball joint of anterior strut to connect locate and secure a tongue deviating paddle . Likewise as seen in a midline rod may be provided sized and shaped complementary to through joint aperture slot or hole defined by sidewalls in ball joint of anterior strut to connect locate and secure a tongue depressing paddle .

In an embodiment a tongue deviating paddle may be provided in generally oval or tear drop shaped configuration. However any convenient figuration may be utilized and the device shall in no way be considered to limited structures and uses to such shapes as may be suggested for an embodiment In an embodiment a tongue deviating paddle or a tongue depressing paddle may be provided with a midline rod A that will fit through the anterior strut and protrude outward from the front of the dental arch assembly for control during the fitting and placement stage. As seen in a tongue deviating paddle may have a working surface that at least in part has a concave surface toward a patient s tongue T see not shown in . The tongue deviating paddle may also have a convex surface on a non working side that is a side away from a patient s tongue. Affixed to or provided as a part of a tongue deviating paddle a mount may be provided for securing thereto a posterior stabilizing rod . Such posterior stabilizing rod may in an embodiment be sized and shaped to fit through the appropriate guides in the form of through joint aperture slots or holes defined by sidewalls alternately guides defined in the form of through joint aperture slots or holes defined by sidewalls in one of one or more posterior struts which are here shown as struts and in order to locate and secure tongue deviating paddle so as to hold the tongue toward the contra lateral opposite side. The tongue deviating paddles may take different forms and sizes e.g. small medium or large and be configured to deviate to the right or to deviate to the left of a patient depending on the side of a patient s mouth where their cancer that requires treatment is located.

A tongue deviating paddle may be provided in a generally oval shaped or tear drop shaped tongue protection element PE having a mount configured to receive at a first end or of one of the posterior stabilizing rods or respectively. In an embodiment as may be appreciated by reference to mount may be provided in the form of a seat formed in the protective element PE e.g. tongue deviating paddle containing a spherical or ball type joint wherein ball B has a rod receiving partial aperture defined by interior sidewalls wall and interior end wall .

In an embodiment a protective element PE such as a tongue deviating paddle may further include a housing that is sized and shape to receive a midline rod . In an embodiment the housing may be defined by interior sidewalls and by an endwall as noted in . In an embodiment a housing may be mounted at or near an anterior end of a tongue deviating paddle and configured to receive a first end of midline rod .

As seen in a tongue depressing paddle may be provided with a tongue protection element . Such tongue protection element may be provided in a generally oval shape or with a rounded triangular shape or with a trapezoidal shape as suitable in particular circumstances. In an embodiment joints and or may be provided and mounted on a first side of the paddle . The joints and or may be provided as ball mount joints in that balls and respectively are provided with spherical freedom of movement in joints and or . In an embodiment as noted in a cross sectional view provided in balls and may be provided with rod receiving partial apertures defined by interior sidewalls walls and and interior end walls and respectively. The rod receiving partial apertures defined by the just mentioned features are configured to receive and seat the posterior stabilizing rods and and more particularly a first end or of such rods as noted in broken lines in . In an embodiment the tongue depressing paddle may be provided with a housing configured to receive the midline rod which in an embodiment may be of the same configuration as described above as regards housing .

Embodiments of the intra oral device will now be further described with reference to . illustrates an embodiment of an intra oral device configured with a tongue deviating paddle . However it must be understood that the tongue deviating paddle components and connecting parts as shown configured in are interchangeable and thus may be replaced by similar elements of different sizes or of either right hand or of left hand configuration and such alternate configuration will provide the tissue positioning functionality as described herein. As assembled the intra oral device includes two elongate essentially U shaped members namely an upper member and a lower member . The upper member and the lower member are shown coupled together by struts and .

As seen in in another embodiment an upper member may be coupled to a lower member using a moveable joint . Alternatively upper member and lower member may be directly and fixedly attached together as generally shown in for example.

When assembled an intra oral device may include an upper dental arch member having upper molded surface and a lower dental arch member with lower molded surface that as joined together such as by struts provide a dental arch assembly which acts as an intermaxillary scaffold. The dental arch assembly thus holds a patient s maxillary teeth arch and mandibular teeth arch see for example the position of patient s teeth and and angle alpha a in apart in a repeatable position in three dimensional space at a selected angle alpha a of opening and as may be possible with suitable patient tolerance consistent with medical objectives at suitable forward or rearward positioning of the mandibular teeth arch in relation to the position of the maxillary teeth arch .

In an embodiment a dental arch assembly should be considered to be an intra oral device even without the use of a protective element such as tongue deviating paddles or tongue depressing paddles or the like. In any event when a desired or prescribed opening position of a patient s mouth is achieved with the intermaxillary dental arch assembly portion of the intra oral device the device then additionally is used to provide supports for a protective element such as a tongue paddle that is a tongue deviating paddle or tongue depressing paddle and thus a selected paddle then displaces a patient s tongue in a prescribed direction and position.

After a dental arch assembly is constructed a protective element PE including protective portions PP see such as tongue paddle or may be inserted into a patient s mouth and loosely attached by way of an adjustable guide to the dental arch assembly . Using a posterior stabilizing rod as a stabilizing device rotating the tongue deviating paddle or using midline rod A and the adjustable guide as a fulcrum point a patient s tongue may be positioned to a desired location. In an embodiment once the patient s tongue T is in a suitable location the anterior strut and posterior strut or as applicable may be fixed to midline rod A and posterior stabilizing rod . In an embodiment a locking mechanism e.g compression fitting may be utilized to fix in place any one or more of posterior stabilizing rods or or midline rods or each of which is more fully described elsewhere herein . In an embodiment fixation into a secure working position may be accomplished using a bonding agent such as a curable bonding agent known in the field such as light cured acrylic or by other methods such as by fusing the components with cyanoacrylate compositions or similar bonding agents. In any event the objective is to assemble an intra oral device for example device or into a secure configuration and to lock the protective element such as a tongue deviating paddle e.g. or or a tongue depressing paddle into a final secure position. In various embodiments such locking mechanisms may be irreversible e.g. cyanoacrylate fusion or reversible mechanical locking mechanism .

Referring back to the intra oral device may include an oval shaped or tear drop shaped tongue protective element e.g. tongue deviating paddle . In an embodiment a paddle e.g. or may be positioned in the middle of the device . In an embodiment a tongue deviating paddle may be disposed within the device such that certain freedom of movement adjustment ability of the tongue deviating paddle within the device is ensured. Ball joints or which are included in the struts and respectively and similar structures in tongue deviating paddle or and in the tongue depressing paddle may be configured to allow a desired range of motion of a protective element e.g. tongue paddles or relative to the dental arch assembly . Such ball joints may be secured to their respective struts or paddles. In an embodiment such assembly and fixation goal may be accomplished using a bonding agent such as a curable bonding compound e.g. a cyanoacrylate composition once a tongue paddle e.g. paddle or is positioned in a desired location. For example the tongue deviating paddle may be coupled through the mount with the rod disposed through the strut . The front end of the tongue deviating paddle may be connected with the midline rod disposed through the anterior strut . The described structure allows for movement at the front end of tongue deviating paddle when the midline rod is moved. The excess part of a midline rod may be removed e.g. cut off or snapped off at broken line once the tongue deviating paddle e.g. is secured in a desired position to provide a new second end of midline rod . Similarly in an intra oral device using a tongue depressing paddle any excess part of a midline rod may be removed e.g. cut off or snapped off at broken line once the tongue depressing paddle e.g. is secured in a desired position to provide a new second end of midline rod .

As shown in and further described below the tongue deviating paddle may be disposed generally vertically relative to the intermaxillary supporting dental arch assembly . While in this the tongue deviating paddle illustrated is configured to provide a tongue deviation to the left relative to the patient a right hand version of a tongue deviating paddle may be configured and mounted similarly to that of the left hand version . In an embodiment the upper dental arch member and or lower dental arch member may be configured to provide independent support for a protective element such as tongue deviating paddle or or tongue depressing paddle . For example a tongue deviating paddle may be attached to a middle section somewhere about the center of the U shape of the upper dental arch member or to a middle section somewhere about the center of the U shape of the lower dental arch member .

Turning again to an embodiment of an intra oral device will now be further described. illustrates an example assembly for an intra oral device that includes a tongue depressing paddle . Similar to the tongue deviating paddles the tongue depressing paddle may utilize a midline rod that fits through a ball joint of an anterior strut . In an embodiment a tongue depressing paddle may be generally a rounded triangular trapezoidal or oval shaped and may be positioned generally horizontally as shown in . Like the tongue deviating paddles described above a tongue depressing paddle may be loosely fitted intra orally into the dental arch assembly formed by the upper dental arch member and lower dental arch member and positioned using the midline rod . Once the tongue depressing paddle is in a selected position the tongue depressing paddle may be immobilized and thus fixed in place via midline rod and anterior strut . Then the midline rod may be shortened as desired. Also posterior stabilizing rods and may be added for additional strength and secured to the dental arch assembly and to the tongue depressing paddle . Suitable locking mechanisms or curable bonding agents or the like as mentioned elsewhere herein may be utilized as appropriate to secure and ensure the intended service of the intra oral device.

Turning again to in an intra oral device or as set out in such drawing figures respectively the upper dental arch member defines an upper plane approximating a plane along the occlusal surfaces of a patent s maxillary teeth or edentulous arch. In various embodiments as may be understood by additional reference to a protective element PE including protective portion PP e.g. tongue deviating paddle or and connector portion CP e.g. midline rod or A may be deployed in a configuration roughly perpendicular to the upper plane . In various embodiments such roughly perpendicular configuration will vary anywhere from a precisely perpendicular orientation at ninety 90 degrees to upper plane up to as much of an offset as plus or minus forty five 45 degrees from a perpendicular orientation.

Turning to for orientation with respect to dental arch member and to as regards an intra oral device the lower dental arch member defines a lower plane see approximating a plane along the occlusal surfaces of a patent s mandibular teeth or edentulous arch. In various embodiments as may be understood by additional reference to a protective element PE including protective portion PP e.g. tongue depressing paddle and connector portion CP e.g. midline rod A may be deployed in a configuration with protective portion PP oriented roughly parallel to the lower plane . In various embodiments such roughly parallel configuration will vary anywhere from a precisely parallel orientation to lower plane in many embodiments up to as much of a downward or upward angle using connector portion CP such as midline rod for evaluation of the angle of plus or minus forty five 45 degrees from a parallel orientation. In an embodiments for an intra oral device utilizing a tongue depressing paddle first posterior stabilizing rod and second posterior stabilizing rod may be structured in an anhedral configuration where the rods and are extending upward from their respective guides G at struts and toward tongue depressing paddle . In an embodiments for an intra oral device utilizing a tongue depressing paddle first posterior stabilizing rod and second posterior stabilizing rod may be structured in a dihedral configuration where the rods and are extending downward from their respective guides G at struts and toward tongue depressing paddle . In an embodiments for an intra oral device utilizing a tongue depressing paddle first posterior stabilizing rod and second posterior stabilizing rod may be structured in a neutral configuration where the rods and extending substantially horizontally from their respective guides G at struts and toward tongue depressing paddle .

Any of the dental arch assemblies and other components used in intra oral devices or may be customized for a particular patient. Similarly the shape of a tongue paddle e.g. paddles or may be adjusted by material removal or and by material addition to optimize the particular shape of the device to fit a patient s tongue or their other oral tissue limitations surgical scars for example for comfort and or ideal management. In operation when the customized device is inserted into the patient s mouth the tongue paddle e.g. paddles or will shift the location of a patient s tongue so as to either avoid or reduce adverse effects of head and neck cancer radiation treatment thus protecting or stabilizing the tongue tissues. The materials selected may optimally be capable of withstanding several weeks of daily high dose radiation exposure. In an embodiment an intra oral device or may be manufactured of a radiation resistant material thus in an embodiment having low radiation absorption and scatter. Accordingly an intra oral device or may be manufactured using any suitable material for example plastics acrylics carbon fibers or other materials having properties consistent with applicable requirements including various governmental regulations for medical treatment devices used in oral service in humans.

The fill in material and for the upper member and lower member as described above in reference to may include a suitable material having a moldable property. For example the fill in material may be made of a customizable material such as Triad acrylic a polyether or polyvinylsiloxane or other functionally similar materials. When the device or is inserted into the patient s mouth the patient molds the surfaces on the upper member and on the lower member by biting into the fill in material which in an embodiment may be subsequently hardened for example either autocatalytically or via application of a bright photoactivating light. In this manner the surfaces and replicate the occlusal surfaces of a particular patient s maxillary teeth and mandibular teeth or comparable edentulous arch forms. The devices or may also be customized such as by addition of light cured acrylic to add devices such as lead lined lip bumpers cheek bumpers near metallic crowns and the like.

In the foregoing description numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for an intra oral device for positioning certain oral tissue during radiation treatment. The purpose of the intra oral devices described here is to provide a wide range of flexibility to give the end user of the device as much latitude to customize and idealize its application for the maximum benefit of the patient. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description may include for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as surface at adjacent proximity near on onto and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. Various components are described which may be employed alternatively yet be included in a kit or product package to enable an end user to select the optimal components for use in a particular situation. Accordingly procedures utilizing the intra oral device described herein and the method s described herein may be utilized as multiple discrete operations in a manner that is most helpful in a particular circumstance. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such alternatives are necessarily order dependent or that use of various components is necessarily in the alternative. Also the reader will note that the phrase in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Various aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. This disclosure is intended to cover methods and apparatus described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

