---

title: Photovoltaic cell with nano-patterned substrate
abstract: A photovoltaic solar cell comprises a nano-patterned substrate layer. A plurality of nano-windows are etched into an intermediate substrate layer to form the nano-patterned substrate layer. The nano-patterned substrate layer is positioned between an n-type semiconductor layer composed of an n-type semiconductor material and a p-type semiconductor layer composed of a p-type semiconductor material. Semiconductor material accumulates in the plurality of nano-windows, causing a plurality of heterojunctions to form between the n-type semiconductor layer and the p-type semiconductor layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09472702&OS=09472702&RS=09472702
owner: The Board of Regents of the University of Texas System
number: 09472702
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121119
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The adoption of photovoltaics for generating electricity from sunlight is strongly impacted by cost considerations. At present photovoltaic power generation systems are relatively expensive in comparison to conventional fossil fuel burning power generation systems in terms of watts produced per dollar required to manufacture deploy and maintain such systems. With more specificity the Watt dollar ratio for a fossil fuel burning power generation system is higher than the Watt dollar ratio for conventional photovoltaic systems. This disparity in cost has prevented wide spread adoption of photovoltaic power generation systems.

Thin film photovoltaic cells are exemplary cells that can be included in photovoltaic power generation systems. Conventionally 1 Watt for a cell module is seen as the cost barrier at which photovoltaic cells would achieve cost parity with existing electric grids. While some thin film photovoltaic cells have surpassed this cell module cost barrier such as for example Cadmium Telluride CdTe cells other factors have impeded price parity. For example persistently low photovoltaic module efficiencies of 12 in CdTe cells create balance of system issues which typically raise the implementation cost of photovoltaic power generation systems to as much as 2 4 times the cost of power purchased from existing electric grids despite being manufactured at or below the 1 Watt cell module price point.

While some thin film photovoltaic cells have a high theoretical efficiency practical performance has remained stagnant. For example while CdTe cells have an ideal direct band gap of 1.5 eV and are capable of a theoretical maximum single junction conversion efficiency of 30 CdTe cell performance has remained stagnant at 16 for the last several years.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to a photovoltaic cell. With more particularity various technologies pertaining to a photovoltaic cell that comprises a nano patterned substrate layer are described herein. The photovoltaic cell comprises an n type semiconductor layer composed of an n type semiconductor material such as Cadmium Sulfide CdS . A nano patterned substrate layer is positioned immediately adjacent to the n type semiconductor layer wherein the nano patterned substrate layer is composed of a suitable insulating substrate material for example Silicon Oxide SiO or Silicon Nitride SiN . The nano patterned substrate layer comprises a plurality of nano windows wherein each nano window can have a respective length less than 350 nm and a respective width less than 350 nm.

The photovoltaic cell further comprises a p type semiconductor layer that is positioned immediately adjacent to the nano patterned substrate layer. The p type semiconductor layer can be composed of a suitable p type semiconductor material such as CdTe. In other embodiments the p type semiconductor material can be a graded material such as Zinc Cadmium Tellurium e.g. of the formula ZnCdTe . In an exemplary embodiment the p type semiconductor material accumulates in the nano windows of the nano patterned substrate layer causing a respective p n junction to form in each nano window by way of pseudomorphic crystal growth. A nano patterned substrate disposed amongst junctions between semiconductor materials results in enhanced efficiencies such as by reducing defects in crystal structures of the semiconductor materials.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to a photovoltaic cell with a nano patterned substrate layer therein will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Referring now to a cross sectional view of an exemplary photovoltaic cell is illustrated. The photovoltaic cell comprises a base layer . In some embodiments the base layer may be coated with a transparent conducting film which can be composed of a material of the formula ITO. An n type semiconductor layer is positioned immediately adjacent to the base layer . A nano patterned substrate layer is positioned immediately adjacent to the n type semiconductor layer such that the n type semiconductor layer is disposed between the base layer and the nano patterned substrate layer . The nano patterned substrate layer comprises a plurality of nano windows collectively shown by reference numerals A C. Each nano window has a size on the order of nanometers e.g. one nanometer to one micron in length and width. Height of a nano window can be on the order of nanometers or micrometers such as between ten nanometers and ten micrometers.

The photovoltaic cell further comprises a p type semiconductor layer that is positioned immediately adjacent to the nano patterned substrate layer such that the nano patterned substrate layer is disposed between the n type semiconductor layer and the p type semiconductor layer . The n type semiconductor layer is exposed to the p type semiconductor layer by way of the plurality of nano windows A C of the nano patterned substrate layer . This causes multiple heterojunctions to form in the nano windows A C of the nano patterned substrate layer . In an exemplary embodiment the heterojunctions can be p n heterojunctions. As shown the p type semiconductor layer is deposited onto the nano patterned substrate causing the p type semiconductor material to accumulate in the nano windows A C. In other embodiments however other materials such as the n type semiconductor material buffer material graded semiconductor material intrinsic i type semiconductor material or other material can accumulate in the nano windows A C.

Due at least in part to the relatively small size of the nano windows A C of the nano patterned substrate layer a relatively small number e.g. one of crystal domains of the p type semiconductor material grows via pseudomorphic growth in any one nano window. Pseudomorphic growth reduces the formation of crystallographic defects thus decreasing the amount of lost carriers and enhancing voltage current and efficiency of the cell. Each nano window in the nano patterned substrate layer may comprise an electrically isolated junction. An electrically isolated junction in a nano window of the nano patterned substrate layer is referred to herein as a nano cell. In other embodiments other types of material may similarly undergo pseudomorphic growth and likewise may comprise a plurality of electrically isolated junctions referred to as nano cells. In yet other embodiments the plurality of nano widows may not be electrically isolated.

While the junctions of the photovoltaic cell have been described as being p n junctions other junction types are contemplated and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims. Exemplary junction types include but are not limited to n p junctions p i n junctions n i p junctions multi junctions and the like. Similarly while an embodiment may have a layer configuration comprising a p n junction as described above it should be understood that other layer configurations such as other layer configurations comprising other types of junctions are contemplated and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims. For example a Copper Indium Gallium Selenide CIGS solar cell may comprise a p type CIGS absorber layer deposited between a base layer and an n type CdS buffer layer. Inclusion of the nano patterned substrate layer in the photovoltaic cell has been shown in experiments to reduce defects observed in conventional photovoltaic cells.

The photovoltaic cell may further optionally comprise a contact not shown composed of for instance Copper Cu in carbon paste or other suitable contact positioned immediately adjacent to the p type semiconductor layer . In another exemplary embodiment the photovoltaic cell may further optionally comprise a graded semiconductor layer positioned immediately adjacent to the p type semiconductor layer . The photovoltaic cell can additionally optionally comprise a transparent coating that is positioned above the p type semiconductor layer such that the p type semiconductor layer is disposed between the nano patterned substrate layer and the transparent coating . The photovoltaic cell can further optionally comprise an anti reflective coating that is positioned immediately adjacent to the transparent coating such that the transparent coating is disposed between the p type semiconductor layer and the anti reflective coating .

Still further the photovoltaic cell may also optionally comprise a graded structure which can be positioned between the n type semiconductor layer and the nano patterned substrate layer . In another exemplary embodiment a buffer layer can be positioned between the base layer and the n type semiconductor layer . In an example the buffer layer can be composed of a buffer material such as Zinc Tellurium.

The photovoltaic cell can further comprise electric contacts that facilitate retrieval of electric power from the photovoltaic cell . Contacting photovoltaic cells is known and description of contacting the photovoltaic cell is omitted herein for sake of brevity.

Additional details pertaining to the layers of the photovoltaic cell are now provided. In an exemplary embodiment the base layer can be composed of glass plastic uv stabilized polymer or other suitable transparent material. The base layer can have a thickness of for example about 0.5 3.0 mm. Further in an exemplary embodiment the base layer can be coated with a transparent conducting film that acts as an ohmic contact for carrier transport through the photovoltaic cell . Exemplary transparent conducting films that can be coated on the base layer include tin doped indium oxide ITO aluminum doped zinc oxide and or indium doped cadmium oxide. In another exemplary embodiment the base layer can be coated with a conducting polymer or a carbon nanotube thin film.

With respect to the n type semiconductor layer in an exemplary embodiment such layer can be composed of a material with a band gap on the order of 2.4 eV. For instance the n type semiconductor layer can be composed of Cadmium Sulfide CdS . Further thickness of the n type semiconductor layer can be between 80 and 120 nanometers. With respect to the nano patterned substrate layer in an exemplary embodiment such layer can be composed of Silicon Oxide SiO or Silicon Nitride SiN and can have a thickness of between 200 and 500 nanometers.

With respect to the p type semiconductor layer in an exemplary embodiment such layer can have a pseudomorphic crystal structure and can be composed of a material with a band gap on the order of 1.5 eV. For instance the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of Cadmium Telluride CdTe and the thickness of the p type semiconductor layer can be between 80 and 120 nanometers. In another embodiment the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of CIGS. In another exemplary embodiment the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of a graded material with a band gap on the order of 2.3 eV such as Zinc Cadmium Telluride of the formula ZnCdTe wherein x varies as the semiconductor grows away from n type semiconductor material. It is to be understood that the graded material can be positioned immediately above the p type layer between the p type layer and the anti reflective coating immediately below the p type layer between the p type layer and the n type layer or can be a substitute for the p type layer . In still yet another exemplary embodiment the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of both a graded material and a pure buffer material such as Zinc Telluride ZnTe .

In some embodiments an additional p type semiconductor layer not shown can be deposited on the p type semiconductor layer . The additional p type semiconductor layer may be deposited such that the combined thickness of the p type layer and the additional p type semiconductor layer is for example about 10 micrometers. In an exemplary embodiment the additional p type semiconductor layer can be composed of CdTe or ZnTe.

As mentioned above in an exemplary embodiment the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of graded material and an additional p type semiconductor layer composed of the p type semiconductor material may be arranged such that graded material is between the additional p type semiconductor layer and the n type semiconductor layer. This may promote pseudomorphic growth of the p type semiconductor material.

In other embodiments the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of a graded material and an additional p type semiconductor layer may be arranged such that the additional p type semiconductor layer is disposed between the graded material and the n type semiconductor layer. This may enhance the ohmic contact and current collection of the photovoltaic cell.

In yet other embodiments the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of a graded material and the additional p type semiconductor layer may be arranged such that the graded material subsumes the p type material of the photovoltaic cell .

Referring now to an isometric view of the nano patterned substrate layer of a photovoltaic cell is shown. As discussed above the nano patterned substrate layer comprises a plurality of nano windows referenced collectively by reference number and is disposed between the n type semiconductor layer and the p type semiconductor layer . Each nano window in the nano patterned substrate layer can have a size of in an exemplary embodiment less than 350 nm in length 350 nm in width and 450 nm in thickness. In another exemplary embodiment each nano window in the nano patterned substrate layer can have a size of less than 100 nm in length less than 100 nm in width and less than 350 nm in thickness height .

While different arrangements of the plurality of nano windows are suitable for a photovoltaic cell it is to be understood that the plurality of nano windows represents an active area of the nano patterned substrate layer . Therefore minimizing the distance between nano windows may increase the active area.

When a graded p type semiconductor is used a nano window with a length and width of less than 350 nm can inhibit appearance and density of defects. If the p type semiconductor is not a graded semiconductor a smaller nano window such as for example a nano window with a length and width of less than 150 nm may also inhibit the appearance and density of defects.

While the plurality of nano windows are shown as being primarily cubic in shape it should be understood that the plurality of nano windows may have a primarily cylindrical irregular cylindrical or other suitable shape.

The nano patterned substrate layer may also promote additional beneficial effects in a photovoltaic cell. For example a nano pattern may promote current funneling from non functioned semiconductor material to the plurality of nano windows where current may be collected. In another example the nano patterned substrate layer may refract light that would otherwise not be absorbed into absorbent regions of the photovoltaic cell.

Referring now to a cross sectional view of an exemplary photovoltaic cell comprising a nano patterned substrate layer and a graded band gap is shown. As noted above the p type semiconductor layer can be composed of a graded material with a band gap on the order of 2.3 eV such as Zinc Cadmium Telluride ZnCdTe . The p type semiconductor layer may comprise a plurality of graded layers A E shown by the horizontal lines in the p type layer thus providing a graded band gap for the photovoltaic cell .

For example the p type semiconductor layer may comprise a first layer A which forms the plurality of heterojunctions with the n type semiconductor material of the n type semiconductor layer . The first layer A can be composed of material of the formula ZnTe. The second layer B is positioned such that the first layer A is between the n type semiconductor layer and the second layer B and can be composed of material of the formula ZnCdTe. The third layer C is positioned such that the second layer B is between the first layer A and the third layer C and can be composed of material of the formula ZnCdTe. The fourth layer D is positioned such that the third layer C is between the second layer B and the fourth layer D and can be composed of material of the formula ZnCdTe. The fifth layer E can be positioned such that the fourth layer D is between the third layer C and the fifth layer E and can be composed of material of the formula CdTe.

It should be understood that in other embodiments the photovoltaic cell can comprise a greater or fewer number of graded layers of material of the formula ZnCdTe and that different variations of the formula ZnCdTe may be used. Similarly the photovoltaic cell can comprises graded layers composed of materials of formulas other than ZnCdTe.

Pursuant to an example use of a graded material and thus a graded band gap can enhance current collection reduce lattice mismatch between the n type and p type semiconductor layers and respectively.

With reference now to various exemplary methodologies are illustrated and described. While the methodologies are described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

Referring now to a methodology for creating a nano patterned substrate layer in a photovoltaic cell is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an intermediate substrate layer is deposited on a first semiconductor layer. The intermediate substrate layer may be deposited for example using plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition to a thickness of less than 450 nm. The intermediate substrate layer can be composed of for example SiOor SiN.

At a plurality of nano windows is etched into the intermediate substrate layer to create a nano patterned substrate layer. The intermediate substrate layer may be etched by for example completing the following steps transferring a pattern onto the intermediate substrate layer via reverse tone step and flash imprint lithography and etching the pattern with Fluoroform CHF gas.

At a second semiconductor layer is deposited over the nano patterned substrate layer and through the plurality of nano windows. The second semiconductor layer can be deposited by a deposition method such as chemical bath deposition chemical vapor deposition sputtering hot wire deposition close space sublimation epitaxy or the like. As the second semiconductor layer is deposited second semiconductor material accumulates in the plurality of nano windows and thus forms a plurality of heterojunctions with the first semiconductor material. The second semiconductor material may grow by way of pseudomorphic growth whereby a relatively small number of crystal domains forms in each nano window. The methodology completes at .

Referring now to a methodology for producing a solar cell that comprises a nano patterned substrate layer is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an n type semiconductor layer is deposited on a base layer. In an exemplary embodiment n type semiconductor material in the n type semiconductor layer may be deposited to a thickness of less than 200 nm by chemical bath deposition. In another exemplary embodiment such n type semiconductor material can be deposited on the base layer by way of chemical vapor deposition sputtering hot wire deposition close space sublimation epitaxy or the like.

At an intermediate substrate layer is deposited on the n type semiconductor layer. At a plurality of nano windows is etched into the intermediate substrate layer to create a nano patterned substrate layer. At a p type semiconductor layer is deposited over the nano patterned substrate layer. The p type semiconductor layer can be deposited by a deposition method such as chemical bath deposition chemical vapor deposition sputtering hot wire deposition close space sublimation epitaxy or other methods. The p type semiconductor layer is deposited such that the nano patterned substrate is between the p type semiconductor layer and the n type semiconductor layer. As the p type semiconductor layer is deposited p type semiconductor material accumulates in the plurality of nano windows and thus forms a plurality of heterojunctions with the n type semiconductor material. The methodology completes at .

Referring now to a methodology for producing a photovoltaic cell with a graded band gap and a nano patterned substrate layer is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at an n type semiconductor layer is deposited on a base. At an intermediate substrate layer is deposited on the n type semiconductor layer. At a plurality of nano windows is etched into the intermediate substrate layer to create a nano patterned substrate layer. At a graded p type semiconductor layer is deposited on the nano patterned substrate layer. The graded p type semiconductor layer can be deposited by a deposition method such as chemical bath deposition chemical vapor deposition sputtering hot wire deposition close space sublimation epitaxy or the like. The graded p type semiconductor layer is deposited such that the nano patterned substrate is between the n type semiconductor layer and the graded p type semiconductor layer. As the graded p type semiconductor layer is deposited graded p type semiconductor material accumulates in the plurality of nano windows and thus forms a plurality of heterojunctions with the n type semiconductor material. The graded p type semiconductor material may grow by means of pseudomorphic growth whereby a relatively small number of crystal domains form in each nano window of the nano patterned substrate layer.

At an additional p type semiconductor layer is deposited on the graded p type semiconductor layer. The methodology completes at .

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

