---

title: System and method for a launch control console for communication with unmanned underwater vehicles
abstract: A system and method of use is provided that includes: receiving configuration information from an unmanned underwater vehicle (UUV); automatically configuring a launch control console (LCC) according to the configuration information; and providing a graphical interface for a user to command the UUV to perform at least one task. The automatic configuration includes formatting commands and the graphical interface to suit a vehicle type and components of the UUV. Other embodiments include: aligning a navigation system in the UUV; selecting a mission; activating components in the UUV corresponding to the mission; and launching the UUV on the mission. Further embodiments include: downloading at least one preset associated with the UUV; modifying the presets; and displaying a status of components and a log of messages on the graphical interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08437885&OS=08437885&RS=08437885
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08437885
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120123
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to unmanned underwater vehicles UUV and more particularly to a system and method for a launch control console to communicate with a UUV.

A Midsized Autonomous Reconfigurable Vehicle MARV is an unmanned underwater vehicle UUV that is used for select undersea missions.

Typically UUVs are used for commercial and military purposes. For example UUVs may be used by the oil and gas industry to make maps of a seafloor before building subsea infrastructure pipelines etc. Military applications may include determining the existence of mines monitoring protected areas for unidentified objects and aiding in detection of manned submarines etc. UUVs range in size from portable lightweight vehicles to large diameter vehicles over ten feet in length. Many UUVs carry sensors to navigate autonomously and carry out various tasks such as mapping features on the ocean floor measuring physical characteristics of sea water such as temperature salinity and dissolved oxygen detecting chlorophyll from microscopic marine algae measuring concentrations of small particles in the water and collecting images of the seafloor and the sea.

UUVs rely on a number of propulsion methods such as propeller based fins thrusters or nozzles. UUVs are typically programmed to perform their mission at the surface. When launched UUVs navigate through the water and collect data.

UUVs may be equipped with navigation systems such as inertial navigation systems. An inertial navigation system INS may use a computer motion sensors accelerometers and rotation sensors gyroscopes to continuously calculate position orientation and velocity of the UUV. The INS may be initially provided with a position and velocity from another source a human operator a GPS satellite receiver etc. and thereafter may compute its own updated position and velocity by integrating information received from the motion sensors. A pressure sensor may measure vertical position e.g. depth of the UUV.

The actual and potential range of applications of UUVs for ocean science and related applications is potentially unlimited. As the variety of deployable instruments sensors increase and their operating costs decrease UUVs are likely to become common tools for ocean exploration. Currently many UUVs require manual configuration and setup of their instruments and subsystems. For example an operator can manually verify that all instruments are installed and if any changes have been made to the vehicle configuration such as adding or removing an instrument. When the number of UUVs in an organization is large it may be prohibitively costly to manually configure every UUV before a mission.

The MARV type of UUV encompasses a robust propulsor section that can interact with pneumatic surface ship tube launchers or hydraulic submarine torpedo tube launchers. The MARV contains two thruster sections that allow the vehicle to be recovered inside a submarine torpedo tube when used in conjunction with a compatible remotely operated vehicle ROV . The MARV may have other configurations based on particular needs and suitability for example chemical sensors video cameras side scan sonar bathymetry sonar and a vector sensor .

The MARV may also contain software components including Casualty Monitoring CASMON software Power Distribution Assembly PDA controller software and Vehicle Controller VC software. These software components may be separable by general function but work together to provide an integrated configuration system.

A single organization can support multiple unmanned underwater vehicles such as the MARV with each vehicle having differing components and procedures for example start up procedures launching checklists missions etc . The various configurations may not be plainly visible or identifiable from the exterior of the vehicle. Different procedures and checklists may need to be configured separately for each vehicle. These configurations may have to be checked and sometimes double checked to ensure that the user specified configuration is permitted by existing system parameters and configurations. For at least these reasons a system and method to automatically configure various vehicle settings for launch control is needed.

Accordingly it is a primary object and general purpose of the present invention to provide a method that includes receiving configuration information from an unmanned underwater vehicle UUV automatically configuring a launch control console LCC according to the configuration information and providing a graphical interface for a user to command the UUV to perform one or more tasks. The automatic configuration includes formatting the graphical interface and configuring commands to suit a vehicle type and components of the UUV.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention include aligning a navigation system in the UUV selecting a mission activating components in the UUV corresponding to the mission and launching the UUV on the mission. More specific embodiments include downloading one or more presets associated with the UUV modifying the presets and displaying a status of components and a log of messages on the graphical interface.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to the figure depicts a block diagram of a system comprising a launch control console LCC for communication with an unmanned underwater vehicle UUV . In an exemplary embodiment the launch control console may be a Microsoft Windows application that gives external control over vehicle functions for example powering up vehicle components sending vehicle presets selecting missions from a mission file launching the UUV etc. .

As used herein an unmanned underwater vehicle includes any vehicle that is able to operate underwater without a human occupant. UUVs may include remotely operated underwater vehicles e.g. UUVs controlled by a remote human operator and autonomous underwater vehicles e.g. UUVs that operate independently of direct human input . The shape of the UUV shown in is merely for illustrative purposes and is not intended as a limitation.

The UUV may include a network which connects various components and subsystems e.g. groups of components typically working together to perform a function . The LCC may be connected to the network via suitable network connections . A vehicle controller communicates with the LCC over the network . One or more vehicle components e.g. thru may be connected to the vehicle controller over the network . In an exemplary embodiment the vehicle components include side scan sonar e.g. a bathymetric sonar e.g. a pressure relief valve e.g. a tracking transducer a pressure sensor cameras DCO switch ECO locator pinger e.g. collectively and a propulsor and actuator e.g. collectively .

The LCC is configured to initiate communication with the UUV and receive configuration information from the vehicle controller . The configuration information includes information relevant to navigation and operation of the UUV including vehicle type component list display settings command formats commands etc. As used herein command includes a directive to a device such as the vehicle controller to perform a task specified in the command. For example LAUNCH ENABLE may direct the vehicle controller to prepare certain components for launching the UUV into the sea.

Although the configuration information may vary with vehicle type and components present in the vehicle the LCC may be independent of the vehicle type and components present in the vehicle and may automatically configure itself based on the configuration information. Automatic configuration includes formatting a graphical interface and configuring commands to suit a vehicle type and components of the UUV . As used herein formatting includes arranging features such as images windows consoles text etc. in a predetermined manner.

The LCC provides a formatted graphical interface for a user to command the UUV to perform one or more tasks. As used herein graphical interface encompasses graphical user interfaces GUIs dashboards command lines windows images text and any other suitable means of graphical communication that enable a human operator e.g. the user to visually interact with the LCC . The graphical interface may be provided on suitable display devices. A task may include any suitable operation such as activation launch end run de activation etc.

The LCC may be embodied in an external processor that communicates with the vehicle controller . The LCC may be installed on a device such as a laptop desktop server smartphone etc. In other embodiments the LCC may be provided as a stand alone box a network application software as a service or in any other suitable form and based on particular needs.

The LCC may be independent of vehicle type and may be used indiscriminately for any UUV in the organization without apriori knowledge of the particular UUV configuration components and parameter settings. The LCC may provide a graphical tool to enable users to enter and verify mission parameters subsystem configuration settings and status of vehicle components e.g. the components among other information and functionalities.

Regarding the infrastructure of the network can be any local area network LAN wireless local area network WLAN wide area network WAN wireless wide area network WWAN wireless single hop or multi hop vehicle to vehicle network virtual private network VPN Intranet Extranet or any other architecture or system that facilitates communications in a network environment. The network may include any suitable communication link to the LCC such as wireless technologies e.g. IEEE 802.11 802.16 WiFi WiMax etc. satellite cellular technologies e.g. 3G 4G etc. etc. or any combination thereof. The network may also include configurations capable of transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP communications user datagram protocol IP UDP IP or any other suitable protocol where appropriate and based on particular needs.

In another embodiment the network connections may include a 100 Base TX RJ 45 wire connector e.g. used during lab testing or a single mode fiber optic connector e.g. used during tethered vehicle operations . In yet another example embodiment the network connections may include wireless bridges e.g. for non tethered autonomous vehicle operations .

The vehicle controller communicates with the suitable components e.g. navigation sensors measurement instruments etc. and enables controlling functions required for navigation and operation. The vehicle controller may be provisioned with a configuration file comprising key aspects of controlling software such as autopilot and a component configuration. New components may be integrated into the UUV by updating the configuration file in the vehicle controller and recompiling the configuration file.

In an exemplary embodiment the LCC may access a mission file to enable a user to command the UUV to perform one or more tasks suitable to a particular mission. Missions may be programmed into the vehicle controller in a mission file. In another embodiment the mission file may be stored in a separate hard disk or memory.

The mission file may contain a list of components and subsystems relevant to a particular mission. The mission file may also contain any sequence for data collection event logs etc. For example the mission file may be an ASCII file containing a location goal of a mission e.g. co ordinates of the location goal in latitude and longitude speed to be used maximum depth to attain events to log etc.

A preset file comprising presets associated with the UUV may be used to provide vehicle settings to the UUV through the LCC . As used herein presets encompass vehicle settings such as battery threshold proper salinity for Doppler velocity logger proper auto pilot settings for vehicle gains e.g. to ensure the vehicle swims straight and level specifications for safe operating envelope between seawater surface and seafloor casualty responses e.g. tasks to be performed in response to a casualty event such as a collision subsystem break down etc. acoustic modem transfer information vehicle end of run procedures etc.

The LCC may permit a user to download the presets from a preset file stored on the user s computer or on a network device that is separate from the UUV . In one embodiment the preset file may contain a master list of presets for all UUVs in the organization. The UUV may access the preset file and choose applicable presets relevant to its vehicle type. Also the preset file may be in any suitable format e.g. ASCII or XML etc.

In an exemplary embodiment the LCC may be provisioned with a navigation mode. During initial setup the navigation mode may be reached after activating a navigation system. The navigation mode may be a default mode that the LCC may attain for example after losing communication with the UUV . In an example scenario when the UUV is launched and submerges underwater the LCC may lose communication with the UUV. When the UUV resurfaces after the mission the LCC may reconnect to the UUV in the navigation mode.

In operation after the LCC is activated the LCC may wait for the vehicle controller to send a configuration message comprising configuration information for example identifying various parameters such as vehicle type and any currently present components such as vehicle components thru . The vehicle controller may also provide status information concerning each component . The LCC may be automatically configured to suit the particular vehicle type and components . In an exemplary embodiment a graphical interface may be formatted to display the components thru according to their corresponding graphical display formats such as boxes circles text etc. The LCC may provide a formatted graphical interface for a user to command the UUV to perform tasks.

Automatic configuration includes configuring commands. For example a LAUNCH command for a particular vehicle type may involve preparing a set of components for launch. Alternatively a LAUNCH command for another vehicle type may involve preparing another set of components for launch. In another example a particular command X may correspond uniquely to a particular component and the LCC may be configured to reject command X in the absence of the particular component. The automatic configuration process may ensure consistency each time that a vehicle change is made. The automatic configuration process reduces a chance for errors and makes the system more user friendly.

After initial start up vehicle data and status may be periodically sent from the vehicle controller to the LCC for various purposes e.g. to alert the user . Typically such feedback may be continuously provided but different intervals may be used based on suitable needs. In an exemplary embodiment the LCC may use the vehicle data to create a National Marine Electronics Association NMEA message which can be sent to a tracking computer via a UDP network socket to display the positional data using hydrographic survey software. The NMEA messaging functionality may permit users to keep track of the vehicle location in relation to the operation of support craft test range and other vehicles.

Operation of the UUV may be accomplished through one or more user commands e.g. series of commands from the LCC that direct the vehicle controller through one or more modes leading to a launch of the UUV. The LCC may also send activation commands to the vehicle controller for a subsystem that required for the next mission.

As part of the launch procedure the LCC may force the user to make any safety checks before vehicle propulsor and subsystems can be activated. In one embodiment until all safety checks are complete the LCC may prevent power from being delivered to the vehicle subsystems. In another embodiment all vehicle presets may be downloaded to the vehicle controller before loading a mission. A mission may be established and properly selected from the mission file. Vehicle subsystems must be powered up in an appropriate order. The propulsion system must be enabled according to safe procedures and the navigation system must be properly activated and aligned.

As part of system monitoring the LCC may display a subsystem failure or a vehicle casualty on the graphical interface for example by using a red color . Whether a subsystem has failed or not the operator can select a subsystem status button to display a descriptive log of all status bits that are set. Log files of events and status may also be stored in the UUV and accessed by the LCC . Once the UUV is launched the vehicle controller may automatically determine if a casualty constitutes an end of mission as defined in the casualty preset.

The LCC may display a log of messages sent by the vehicle controller and messages sent to vehicle controller. These messages may include prompts for any incorrect or improper commands. The log may also contain internal messages for example when the UUV changes operating modes . In another embodiment the logs may be stored in storage devices in the UUV and accessible by the LCC .

According to one embodiment the LCC may be used for system testing through diagnostics working on actual components simulated components or a combination of actual and simulated e.g. virtual components. Such capability allows UUVs to be tested in a laboratory environment without having to be tested in the ocean. Various types of such testing may be performed before conducting an ocean operation.

Referring now to the figure depicts a block diagram of the system . The LCC comprises a processor memory and a graphical interface . The graphical interface includes any graphical interface capable of being displayed on one or more display devices e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT a light emitting diode LED a liquid crystal display LCD nanocrystal displays etc. .

The LCC communicates with the network in the UUV over the network connections . The vehicle controller communicates with the LCC and the various components over the network . A hardware simulator may communicate with the network . The hardware simulator may simulate components of the UUV such as missions virtual environments and any other simulation based on particular needs. The hardware simulator may be used for testing purposes in a laboratory environment and may be disconnected for ocean operations.

Referring now to the figure depicts a simplified flow chart of example operational steps that are associated with embodiments of the present invention. Method starts with step when the LCC is activated and the UUV initiates communication with the LCC. In step the LCC receives configuration information from the UUV . In step the LCC automatically configures itself based on the configuration information. The automatic configuration may include formatting graphical displays and configuring commands suited to the particular vehicle and configuration settings. In step the LCC sets up a display of the graphical interface . In step the LCC sends a system time to the UUV for example for clock synchronization purposes . In step the LCC opens a data command socket on a different network port for example to permit a user to input commands to the vehicle controller .

In step the LCC receives UUV data and status. Step may be repeated any number of times during the course of operation of the UUV . For example the UUV may continuously send data and status information to the LCC . In step the LCC downloads presets from a preset file for example by presenting a display to the user on the graphical interface thereby permitting access to a preset file .

In another embodiment a pull down menu may be presented. In yet another embodiment a File Open box may be presented thereby permitting the user to browse the network in order to select a preset file to download. Preset information may be communicated to the vehicle controller by the LCC .

In step a navigation system of the UUV is powered up or activated. The power up command may be input by the user. Alternately the power up may be automatically performed by the vehicle controller after receiving preset information. In step the navigation system is properly aligned for example the LCC may cause the vehicle controller to communicate with a satellite and map a current location . In another embodiment location and direction of the UUV may be entered through the graphical interface .

In step the LCC enters a navigation mode. In step the LCC presents the user with an option to modify presets by using the graphical interface . In an exemplary embodiment a preset file editor may be associated with the LCC . The user may modify presets for example for a next mission . In step the user modifies the preset file and downloads the modified file. In step a determination is made whether missions are over. If missions are not over the user is permitted to select a new mission in step . The user may access the mission file located in the UUV to choose a mission.

In step the LCC presents a display on the graphical interface to enable a user to input suitable commands. For example the user may enter a LAUNCH ENABLE command to inform the UUV to get ready for launch. The vehicle controller then takes steps to prepare subsystems and sensors for launch.

In step the LCC displays status of components of the UUV on the graphical interface . The vehicle controller monitors the status of components of the UUV and sends the corresponding information to the LCC . The LCC may display the component or subsystem status to the user for example in various colors on the graphical interface . In an exemplary embodiment a component or subsystem that is not ready to be activated or that may have failed is shown in a red color. In another embodiment the graphical interface may include a casualty display that identifies existing casualties and suitable commands may prompt the user to acknowledge and accept the existing casualties before proceeding with the mission. The LCC may also display a log of messages between the vehicle controller and the LCC on the graphical interface . In step UUV components used for the mission are properly powered up or activated. In step a propulsion system of the UUV is enabled.

In step the UUV is launched on the mission for example using a LAUNCH command . When the UUV goes under water the UUV can lose communication with the LCC . When the UUV returns to the surface of the water the LCC reestablishes communication with the UUV according to step . At this point the LCC may go back to the navigation mode of step and the process may repeat thereafter. If the missions are over as determined in step the process ends in step . The LCC are deactivated and the communication links with UUV are disabled.

In example embodiments the operations as outlined herein may be implemented by logic encoded in one or more tangible media which may be inclusive of non transitory media e.g. embedded logic provided in an ASIC digital signal processor instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances one or more memory elements e.g. memory can store data used for the operations described herein. This memory includes the ability to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities as described.

Additionally the LCC and associated components may include processing elements e.g. the processor that can execute software or algorithms to perform activities to enable operations of the LCC communication with the UUV and to route packets by using suitable routing protocols. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed.

In one example the processors could transform an element e.g. data from one state to another state. In another example the activities may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements could be a type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. an FPGA an EPROM an EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions flash memory optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs magnetic or optical cards other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof. Any of the potential processing elements modules microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs and other devices described should be construed as being encompassed within the term processor. 

While certain embodiments in the present disclosure have been described with reference to unmanned underwater vehicles systems the embodiments may be also used with other applications and scenarios. For example embodiments according to the present invention may be applied in general to systems that implement automatic navigation and vehicle controls such as airplane drones .

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

