---

title: Developer carrying member, method for its production, and developing assembly
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538303&OS=08538303&RS=08538303
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08538303
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121101
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT JP2012 004916 filed Aug. 2 2012 which claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 170042 filed Aug. 3 2011.

This invention relates to a developer carrying member used in an electrophotographic apparatus a method for its production and a developing assembly.

In order that developers toners used to form electrophotographic images are provided with proper triboelectricity Japanese Patent No. 03740274 proposes a developer carrying member comprising a substrate and provided thereon a resin layer containing as a binder resin a copolymer which contains a quaternary ammonium base.

However as a result of studies made by the present inventors it has been found that where the developer carrying member according to Japanese Patent No. 03740274 is used image density decreases depending on its service environments and the image density decreases especially when it is left to stand in a high temperature and high humidity environment for a long period to cause a difference in image density from that in a low temperature and low humidity environment.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to providing a developer carrying member which has a superior triboelectricity providing ability to toners and also may less cause any change in image density depending on its service environments and provide a method for its production. Further the present invention is directed to providing a developing assembly which can stably form high grade electrophotographic images.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a developer carrying assembly comprising a substrate and a resin layer containing an acrylic resin wherein the acrylic resin has a unit 1 represented by the following formula 1 and a unit 2 represented by the following formula 2 .

In the formula 1 Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group Rrepresents an alkylene group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms and an asterisk represents the part of linkage to the part shown by a double asterisk in the formula 2 .

In the formula 2 Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group Rrepresents an alkylene group having 1 to 4 carbon atom s R Rand Reach represent an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms A represents an anion and a double asterisk represents the part of linkage to the part shown by an asterisk in the formula 1 .

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for producing a developer carrying member comprising a substrate and a resin layer containing an acrylic resin comprising a step of obtaining the acrylic resin through a reaction comprising the following polymerization reactions A and B Polymerization reaction A Radical polymerization reaction between monomers selected from a monomer 3 represented by the following formula 3 and a monomer 4 represented by the following formula 4 and Polymerization reaction B Dehydration polycondensation reaction of the hydroxyl group of the monomer 3 and the hydroxyl group of the monomer 4 .

In the formula 3 Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group and Rrepresents an alkylene group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms.

In the formula 4 Rrepresents a hydrogen atom or a methyl group Rrepresents an alkylene group having 1 to 4 carbon atom s R Rand Reach independently represent an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms and A represents an anion.

The developing assembly according to the present invention is a developing assembly which comprises a negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer having toner particles a container holding the developer therein a developer carrying member for carrying and transporting thereon the developer held in the container and a developer layer thickness control member and which transports while forming a developer layer on the developer carrying member by means of the developer layer thickness control member the developer on the developer carrying member to a developing zone facing an electrostatic latent image bearing member and develops an electrostatic latent image the electrostatic latent image bearing member has to form a toner image thereon the developer carrying member being the above developer carrying member.

According to the present invention a developer carrying member and a developing assembly are provided which have a high triboelectricity providing ability to developers and also have less environmental dependence of image density.

Further features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail in accordance with the accompanying drawings.

The developer carrying member according to the present invention has as shown in a substrate and a resin layer formed on the peripheral surface of the substrate . The resin layer contains an acrylic resin having two units which has specific structures.

The acrylic resin according to the present invention has the function to improve the triboelectric charge quantity of a negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer. Further inasmuch as the acrylic resin has a specific cross linked structure it can be kept from being affected by humidity. As the result it can contribute to a high image density without regard to any service environments. The acrylic resin that brings such an effect has a unit represented by the following formula 1 hereinafter also termed unit 1 and a unit represented by the following formula 2 hereinafter also termed unit 2 .

The unit 1 and unit 2 stand mutually chemically linked at their side chains to have been three dimensionally cross linked. This brings an improvement in environmental stability of image density where this acrylic resin is used in the resin layer of the developer carrying member.

The reason why the above effect is obtained by the three dimensional cross linking of the unit 1 and unit 2 at the specific part of linking is still theoretically unclear and this is presumed as stated below.

The respective units stand thermal motion in the acrylic resin and come higher in motion as their side chains are larger in length. The unit 2 has the part of linking in the vicinity of a quaternary ammonium base and hence the quaternary ammonium base is kept from coming into motion. The quaternary ammonium base tends to absorb water molecules and hence the quaternary ammonium base is kept from coming into motion so that the acrylic resin has less opportunity to come into contact with any moisture present in the atmosphere thus the moisture is kept from its absorption in the resin layer. As the result the developer carrying member of the present invention can not easily be affected by environmental moisture and shows a good environmental stability as so considered. Also the above motion is accelerated as environments have higher temperature whereas the acrylic resin the quaternary ammonium base of which has been kept from coming into motion can not easily be affected by temperatures thus the developer carrying member of the present invention shows a good environmental stability as so considered.

The unit 2 contributes to improvement in the triboelectric charge quantity of a negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer the developer carrying member holds. R Rand Rin the formula 2 are each an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms. Inasmuch as they are each an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms the acrylic resin is kept from being crystallizable and comes improved in compatibility with solvents. Accordingly in order to obtain a uniform resin layer R Rand Rare each set to be an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms. At least one alkyl group selected from R Rand Rin the formula 2 may be a long chain alkyl group having 8 to 18 carbon atoms. This is preferable because the developer carrying member can be more improved in its triboelectricity providing ability.

A in the formula 2 is an anion in halogens in inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid and nitric acid and in organic acids such as carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids. A may much preferably be a methylsulfonate ion or a p toluenesulfonate ion in order to further improve the triboelectric charge quantity of a negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer.

In order to better control the triboelectricity providing ability of the above acrylic resin the acrylic resin may contain in addition to the above unit 1 and unit 2 another unit represented by the following formula 5 hereinafter also termed unit 5 .

The acrylic resin usable in the present invention may be produced by A radical polymerization reaction of a hydroxyl group modified acrylic monomer with an acrylic monomer having a quaternary ammonium base and B dehydration polycondensation reaction between hydroxyl groups.

The hydroxyl group modified acrylic monomer may include a monomer 3 represented by the following formula 3 .

The acrylic monomer having a quaternary ammonium base may include a monomer 4 represented by the following formula 4 .

R Rand Rin the formula 4 are each an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms. Inasmuch as they are each an alkyl group having not more than 18 carbon atoms the acrylic resin is kept from being crystallizable and comes improved in compatibility with solvents. Inasmuch as it is improved in such compatibility the resin layer can uniformly be formed when the developer carrying member is made up and makes it easy to control the triboelectricity providing ability uniformly. Accordingly in view of readiness to produce the acrylic resin R Rand Rare each set to be an alkyl group having 1 to 18 carbon atoms. In the case of a monomer in which at least one alkyl group among R Rand Rin the formula 4 is a long chain alkyl group having 8 to 18 carbon atoms the resin layer can more improve the triboelectric charge quantity of a negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer thus such a monomer is much preferred.

The acrylic resin in the present invention may be obtained with ease by carrying out the following polymerization reactions using the above monomer 3 and monomer 4 .

Polymerization reaction A Radical polymerization reaction between monomers selected from the monomer 3 and the monomer 4 and

Polymerization reaction B Dehydration polycondensation reaction of the hydroxyl group of the monomer 3 and the hydroxyl group of the monomer 4 .

The radical polymerization reaction A and the dehydration polycondensation reaction B between hydroxyl groups may be carried out simultaneously but it is preferable to carry out the dehydration polycondensation reaction B between hydroxyl groups after the radical polymerization reaction A because any residual monomers can be made less in quantity.

As the radical polymerization reaction A any known polymerization process such as bulk polymerization suspension polymerization or emulsion polymerization may be used. In particular solution polymerization is preferable in view of an advantage that the reaction can be controlled with ease.

As a solvent used in the solution polymerization what is capable of dissolving the acrylic resin uniformly is suited and preferred is a lower alcohol such as methanol ethanol n butanol or isopropyl alcohol. Inasmuch as it is such a lower alcohol a coating material for forming the resin layer can have a low viscosity when it is prepared easily promising good film forming properties for the resin layer. Any other solvent may also optionally be mixed when used.

As the ratio of the solvent to the monomer components which are used in the solution polymerization the polymerization may preferably be carried out using 25 parts by mass or more to 400 parts by mass or less of the solvent based on 100 parts by mass of the monomer components. This is preferable in order to control the product to have an appropriate viscosity.

The polymerization of a monomer mixture may be carried out by e.g. heating the monomer mixture in the presence of a polymerization initiator in an atmosphere of an inert gas and at a temperature of from 50 C. or more to 100 C. or less. The polymerization initiator may include the following t Butyl peroxy 2 ethylhexanoate cumyl perpivarate t butyl peroxylaurate benzoyl peroxide lauroyl peroxide octanoyl peroxide di t butyl peroxide t butylcumyl peroxide dicumyl peroxide 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile 2 2 azobis 2 methylbutyronitrile 2 2 azobis 2 4 dimethylvaleronitrile 2 2 azobis 4 methoxy 2 4 dimethylvaleronitrile and dimethyl 2 2 azobis 2 methyl propionate .

The polymerization initiator may be used alone or in combination of two or more types. Usually the polymerization is initiated with addition of the polymerization initiator to a monomer solution. However in order to make any unreacted monomers less remain part of the polymerization initiator may be added on the way of the polymerization. A method may also be employed in which the polymerization is accelerated by irradiation with ultraviolet rays or electron rays. These methods may also be combined.

The polymerization initiator may preferably be used in an amount of from 0.05 part by mass or more to 30 parts by mass or less and particularly from 0.1 part by mass or more to 15 parts by mass or less based on 100 parts by mass of the monomer components. Setting within this range the amount of the polymerization initiator to be used enables reduction of any residual monomers and facilitates the controlling of molecular weight of the acrylic resin. As temperature of the polymerization reaction it may be set in accordance with the solvent polymerization initiator and monomer components to be used. The reaction may be carried out at a temperature of from 40 C. or more to 150 C. or less and this is preferable in view of stable progress of the polymerization reaction.

As the monomer 4 a monomer may be used which has been formed by subjecting a glycidyl group containing ester monomer 6 represented by the following formula 6 to ring opening reaction with a quaternary ammonium salt represented by the following formula 7 .

The reaction of these monomers may be carried out by e.g. heating the glycidyl group containing ester monomer and the quaternary ammonium salt in a solvent at a temperature of from 50 C. or more to 120 C. or less.

A monomer may also be used which has been formed by allowing the formula 6 monomer to react with an organic amine in the presence of an acid component.

The organic amine may include the following Tertiary amines such as trimethylamine triethylamine trioctylamine dimethylbutylamine dimethyloctylamine dimethyllaurylamine dimethylstearylamine dilaurylmonomethylamine and dimethylbehenylamine and secondary amines such as dimethylamine diethylamine methylbutylamine methyloctylamine methyllaurylamine and methylstearylamine.

The acid component may include the following Hydrogen halides such as hydrogen bromide and hydrogen chloride alkyl halides such as methyl bromide methyl chloride butyl bromide butyl chloride octyl bromide octyl chloride lauryl bromide lauryl chloride octadecyl bromide and octadecyl chloride and organic acids such as methylsulfonic acid and p toluenesulfonic acid.

As the dehydration polycondensation reaction B between hydroxyl groups an acrylic resin solution obtained by radical polymerization reaction carried out by the above solution polymerization may be heated at a temperature of from 100 C. or more to 160 C. or less whereby the reaction can be carried out simultaneously with the vaporization of the solvent. An acid catalyst such as p toluenesulfonic acid or hydroxynaphthalenesulfonic acid may also be used and this is preferable because the reaction can be controlled with ease. Here if the dehydration polycondensation reaction B between hydroxyl groups proceeds in excess before the substrate is coated thereon with a coating material containing the acrylic resin solution the acrylic resin may cross link to make it difficult for the resin layer to be uniformly formed. Hence it is preferable for the coating material to be heated after it has been applied onto the substrate.

In order to control the charge providing ability of the acrylic resin or in order to control the solubility of the acrylic resin in the solvent a monomer other than the foregoing may also be used at the time of the radical polymerization. Such other monomer may include a monomer 8 represented by the following formula 8 .

The respective monomers for producing the above acrylic resin may preferably be in such a compositional proportion that where the number of moles of the monomer 3 is represented by mole the number of moles of the monomer 4 by b mole and the number of moles of the monomer 8 by c mole the value of a a b c is from 0.4 or more to 0.8 or less the value of b a b c is from 0.2 or more to 0.6 or less and the value of c a b c is from 0.0 or more to 0.4 or less.

Inasmuch as the value of a a b c is 0.4 or more the reaction between the monomer 3 and the monomer 4 accelerates to make it easy to improve the environmental stability of image density. Inasmuch as the value of b a b c is 0.2 or more the triboelectricity providing ability to a negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer is improved when the developer carrying member is made up to make it easy to improve the triboelectric charge quantity of the negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer.

Inasmuch as the value of a a b c is 0.8 or less and the value of b a b c is 0.6 or less the above effect attributable to the introduction of the monomer 3 and monomer 4 can be obtained with ease. Further inasmuch as the value of c a b c is 0.4 or less the above effect attributable to the introduction of the monomer 3 and monomer 4 can also be obtained with ease.

Incidentally in the above compositional proportion where the monomer 3 is contained in the acrylic resin in a plurality of kinds the total number of moles in a compositional ratio of a plurality of kinds of units that satisfy the structure of the monomer 3 is represented by mole . Also where the monomer 4 is contained in the acrylic resin in a plurality of kinds the total number of moles in a compositional ratio of a plurality of kinds of units that satisfy the structure of the monomer 4 is represented by b mole . Further where the monomer 8 is contained in the acrylic resin in a plurality of kinds the total number of moles in a compositional ratio of a plurality of kinds of units that satisfy the structure of the monomer 8 is represented by c mole .

In the present invention in order to control the volume resistivity of the resin layer the resin layer may preferably be incorporated therein with conductive particles. Such conductive particles may include particles of metals metal oxides and carbides such as carbon black and graphite. The resin layer may preferably have a volume resistivity of approximately 10 cm or less and particularly from 10 cm or more to 10 cm or less.

The resin layer may preferably have as its surface roughness an arithmetic mean roughness Ra JIS B 0601 2001 of approximately from 0.3 m to 2.5 m. As a method by which the surface roughness of the resin layer is controlled to the desired value a method is available in which the substrate on which the resin layer is to be formed is sand blasted to provide it with surface roughness and the resin layer is formed thereon or a method in which the resin layer is incorporated with unevenness providing particles.

How to produce the resin layer is described next. The resin layer may be formed through e.g. the following steps.

As a method for the radical polymerization polymerization reaction A in the step 1 the solution polymerization described above is preferred.

As a method for applying the acrylic resin solution onto the substrate in the step 2 a known method such as dipping spraying or roll coating may be used. In order to make uniform the components in the resin layer spaying is preferred.

For the drying to harden or the curing in the step 3 a known heating unit such as a heat dryer or an infrared heater may preferably be used. By this step the dehydration polycondensation reaction between hydroxyl groups of the monomers polymerization reaction B take places. Also when the wet coating is dried to harden or cured it may be treated at a temperature of from 100 C. or more to 160 C. or less and this is preferable in carrying out the polymerization reaction B.

Where other material such as conductive particles or unevenness providing particles is used in order to control the volume resistivity and surface roughness of the resin layer a step 4 shown below may preferably be carried out between the step 1 and the step 2 .

 4 The step of dispersing and mixing the acrylic resin solution and such other material to make them into a coating material.

To disperse and mix the materials in the step 4 a known dispersion machine that utilizes beads may preferably be used as exemplified by a sand mill a paint shaker Daino mill or Pearl mill.

The resin layer may also preferably have a layer thickness of 50 m or less much preferably 40 m or less and further preferably from 4 m to 30 m or less because it is easy to form the layer in a uniform layer thickness.

The substrate may include a cylindrical member a columnar member or a belt shaped member. A material for the substrate may include non magnetic metals or alloys such as aluminum stainless steel or brass. What is obtained by forming a rubber layer or resin layer on the substrate may also be used as the substrate.

The developing assembly according to the present invention has a negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer having toner particles a container holding the developer therein a developer carrying member for carrying and transporting thereon the developer held in the container and a developer layer thickness control member. Then the developing assembly transports while forming a developer layer on the developer carrying member by means of the developer layer thickness control member the developer on the developer carrying member to a developing zone facing an electrostatic latent image bearing member and develops an electrostatic latent image the electrostatic latent image bearing member has to form a toner image thereon. Then the developer carrying member is the developer carrying member according to the present invention as described above.

The developing assembly according to the present invention may be used in any of a non contact developing assembly and a contact developing assembly which make use of a magnetic one component developer or non magnetic one component developer and a developing assembly making use of a two component developer. In particular the developing assembly of the present invention may particularly preferably be used in the non contact developing assembly making use of the magnetic one component developer or non magnetic one component developer which has a tendency to easily cause non uniformity in triboelectric charge quantity of the developer on the developer carrying member.

Meanwhile a photosensitive drum holding thereon an electrostatic latent image is rotated in the direction of an arrow B. Then in a developing zone D where the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum face each other the magnetic toner on the developer carrying member is caused to adhere to the electrostatic latent image so that a magnetic toner image may be formed.

The developer container is divided into a first chamber and a second chamber where the magnetic toner filled in the first chamber is sent to the second chamber by the aid of an agitating transport member passing through an opening formed by the developer container and a partition member . The second chamber is provided therein with an agitating member which prevents the magnetic toner from stagnating.

The developer container is provided with an elastic blade as the developer layer thickness control member which is formed of an elastic plate having an elastic sheet made of a rubber such as urethane rubber or silicone rubber or made of a metal such as bronze or stainless steel. This elastic blade is brought into contact with or pressed against the developer carrying member through the toner between them and the toner is formed in a thin layer on the developer carrying member undergoing a stronger control than a non contact developing assembly shown in .

In the developing assembly of this type the toner tends to be influenced by the triboelectricity providing ability of the developer carrying member surface and the triboelectric charge quantity of the toner held on the developer carrying member tends to come non uniform. Even in such a developing assembly however the use of the developer carrying member of the present invention enables achievement of a high triboelectricity providing ability for the negatively triboelectrically chargeable developer and achievement of a high image density without regard to any service environments.

Here the elastic blade may be pressed against the developer carrying member at a touch pressure of from 4.9 N m or more to 49 N m or less as linear pressure. This is preferable in view of an advantage that the thickness of the toner layer can preferably be controlled. Inasmuch as the elastic blade is set at a touch pressure of 4.9 N m or more as linear pressure the thickness of the toner layer to be formed on the developer carrying member can be controlled in a high precision and any fog or toner leak can be kept from occurring in the images to be obtained. Also inasmuch as it is 49 N m or less in linear pressure the toner can have an appropriate rubbing force and the toner can be prevented from deteriorating and from melt sticking to the developer carrying member and the elastic blade .

In order to cause the magnetic toner carried on the developer carrying member to fly to the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum to develop this latent image a development bias voltage may preferably be applied to the developer carrying member from a development bias power source .

When a direct current voltage is used as the development bias voltage to be applied to the developer carrying member a voltage is preferable which corresponds to a value intermediate between the potential at electrostatic latent image areas and the potential at back ground areas. In order to enhance the density of the images to be developed or improve the gradation thereof an alternating bias voltage may be applied to the developer carrying member to form in the developing zone D a vibrating electric field whose direction alternately reverses. In such a case too an alternating bias voltage formed by superimposing thereon a direct current voltage component corresponding to a value intermediate between the potential at electrostatic latent image areas and the potential at back ground areas is preferable as the voltage to be applied to the developer carrying member .

Here in the case of regular development where the magnetic toner is attracted to an electrostatic latent image having high potential a magnetic toner triboelectrically chargeable to a polarity reverse to the polarity of the electrostatic latent image is used. In the case of reverse development where the magnetic toner is attracted to an electrostatic latent image having low potential a magnetic toner chargeable to the same polarity as the polarity of the electrostatic latent image is used. What is herein meant by the high potential or the low potential is expression made by the absolute value.

The above example is the non contact developing assembly making use of a magnetic one component developer. The developing assembly of the present invention however may also be used in a contact developing assembly in which the developer layer on the developer carrying member is formed in a thickness larger than the distance between the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum in the developing zone D.

Meanwhile an electrostatic latent image bearing member e.g. a photosensitive drum holding thereon an electrostatic latent image is rotated in the direction of an arrow B. Then in a developing zone D where the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum face each other the magnetic toner on the developer carrying member is caused to adhere to the electrostatic latent image so that a magnetic toner image may be formed.

The magnetic toner is sent into the developer container from a developer supply container not shown via a developer feed member such as a screw . The developer container is divided into a first chamber and a second chamber where the magnetic toner having been sent into the first chamber is sent to the second chamber by the aid of an agitating transport member passing through an opening formed by the developer container and a partition member . The second chamber is provided therein with an agitating member which prevents the magnetic toner from stagnating.

The developer container is fitted with a magnetic blade the developer layer thickness control member in such a way as to face the developer carrying member leaving a gap of from about 50 m or more to about 500 m or less between them. The magnetic line of force exerted from a magnetic pole N of the magnet roller is converged to the gap at the magnetic blade where the developer carrying member is rotated in the direction of an arrow A to form on the developer carrying member a thin layer of the magnetic toner. Incidentally a non magnetic developer layer thickness control member may also be used in place of the magnetic blade .

The magnetic toner gains triboelectric charges which enable development of the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum as a result of the friction between toner particles one another and between the magnetic toner and the resin layer at the surface of the developer carrying member . The thickness of the magnetic toner thin layer thus formed on the developer carrying member may preferably be much smaller than the minimum gap between the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum in the developing zone D.

In order to cause the magnetic toner carried on the developer carrying member to fly to the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum to develop this latent image a development bias voltage may preferably be applied to the developer carrying member from a development bias power source .

A developer container is provided therein with an agitating transport member for agitating and transporting a non magnetic one component developer a non magnetic toner . The developer container is further provided therein with a developer feeding and stripping member RS roller in contact with the developer carrying member which member is to feed the non magnetic toner to the developer carrying member and also strip off any non magnetic toner remaining on the surface of the developer carrying member after development.

The RS roller is rotated in the same direction as or in the opposite direction to that of the developer carrying member to thereby strips off inside the developer container any non magnetic toner remaining on the developer carrying member and feeds thereto a fresh non magnetic toner . The developer carrying member carries thereon the non magnetic toner thus fed and is rotated in the direction of an arrow A to thereby transport the non magnetic toner to a developing zone D where the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum face each other.

The non magnetic toner carried on the developer carrying member is pressed against the surface of the developer carrying member by a developer layer thickness control member so that its layer is formed in a uniform thickness. The non magnetic toner is as a result of the friction between toner particles one another the friction between it and the developer carrying member and the friction between it and the developer layer thickness control member provided with triboelectric charges sufficient for developing the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum . The non magnetic toner layer formed on the developer carrying member may be in a thickness smaller than the minimum gap between the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum in the developing zone.

In order to cause the non magnetic toner carried on the developer carrying member to fly to the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive drum to develop the latent image a development bias voltage may be applied to the developer carrying member from a development bias power source . As the development bias voltage it may be either of a direct current voltage and an alternating bias voltage and its voltage may also be set at the same voltage as the above.

In the developer container of the above developing assembly the RS roller may preferably be an elastic roller made of e.g. resin rubber or sponge. In place of the RS roller a belt or a brush member may be used depending on cases.

It is preferable for the elastic blade to be also one made of the same material and having the same curved shape as those of the elastic blade of the magnetic one component non contact developing assembly shown in and to be so set as to be pressed against the developer carrying member .

The elastic blade may be brought into touch with the developer carrying member at the same touch pressure as that in the case of the elastic blade against the developer carrying member in the magnetic one component non contact type shown in . This is preferable for the like reasons.

The above example is a non magnetic one component non contact type which however may also preferably be used in a non magnetic one component contact developing assembly in which the non magnetic one component developer layer on the developer carrying member is formed in a thickness not less than the gap distance between the developer carrying member and the photosensitive drum in the developing zone D.

The developer toner according to the present invention has a binder resin which contains a colorant a charge control agent a release agent inorganic particles and so forth. It may be either of a magnetic toner which contains a magnetic material as an essential component and a non magnetic toner which does not contain any magnetic material. The toner may preferably have mass average particle diameter within the range of from 4 m or more to 10 m or less. This is because the triboelectric charge quantity of the toner or the image quality and image density can be well balanced. As long as the toner has a mass average particle diameter of 10 m or less any microdot images can be kept from being formed in a low reproducibility. On the other hand as long as the toner has a mass average particle diameter of 4 m or more any density decrease due to faulty triboelectric charging can be kept from occurring.

As the binder resin of the toner usable are vinyl resin polyester resin polyurethane resin epoxy resin and phenol resin. Of these vinyl resin and polyester resin are preferred. For the purpose of improving triboelectric charge characteristics a charge control agent may be used in the toner by incorporating the former in toner particles internal addition or blending it with toner particles external addition . Such a charge control agent facilitates control of optimum charge quantity in accordance with developing systems.

Where the toner is used in a one component developing assembly the toner the charge quantity of which has been controlled as above may be used as the developer whereby the effect of improving the charge providing ability of the developer carrying member of the present invention can be obtained with ease.

In the following working examples part s and refer to part s by mass and by mass respectively unless particularly noted.

Polymer structure of the acrylic resin was determined by analyzing with a pyrolytic GC MS analyzer VOYAGER trade name manufactured by Thermo Electron Inc. a sample obtained by shaving off the resin layer of the developer carrying member. The analysis was made under conditions of pyrolytic temperature 600 C. column HP 1 15 m 0.25 mm 0.25 m inlet temperature 300 C. split 20.0 injection rate 1.2 ml min heating 50 C. 4 minutes up to 300 C. 20 C. min .

A resin layer of 7 m to 20 m in thickness was formed on a PET sheet of 100 m in thickness and its volume resistivity was measured with a resistivity meter LORESTAR AP trade name manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation using a four terminal probe. It was measured in an environment of a temperature of 20 C. to 25 C. and a humidity of 50 RH to 60 RH.

The arithmetic mean roughness Ra of the developer carrying member surface was measured according to JIS B 0601 2001 using a surface roughness meter SURFCORDER SE 3500 trade name manufactured by Kosaka Laboratory Ltd. . It was measured under conditions of a cut off of 0.8 mm a measurement distance of 4 mm and a feed rate of 0.5 mm s. It was also measured at the positions of 3 spots in the axial direction at the middle and at positions of 80 mm each toward both ends from the middle and 3 spots in the peripheral direction at intervals of 120 degrees i.e. 9 spots in total. Then the average value of measured values was taken as the arithmetic mean roughness Ra of the developer carrying member surface.

To measure the layer thickness of the resin layer a controller LS 5500 trade name manufactured by Keyence Corporation and a sensor head LS 5040T trade name manufactured by Keyence Corporation were used which were of a laser dimension measuring instrument which measures the outer diameter of a cylinder by using laser light. A sensor was separately fastened to an instrument fitted with a developer carrying member fastening jig and a developer carrying member feed mechanism where the outer diameter size of the developer carrying member was measured. It was measured at 30 spots on the developer carrying member divided into 30 areas in its lengthwise direction and then the developer carrying member was rotated by 90 degrees in the peripheral direction and thereafter its outer diameter was further measured at 30 spots 60 spots in total. The average value of measured values thus found was taken as the outer diameter size of the sample member. The outer diameter size of the substrate was beforehand measured and after the resin layer was formed the outer diameter was again measured where a difference between them was taken as the layer thickness of the resin layer.

Production examples of acrylic resin solutions and also commercial sources of conductive particles and unevenness providing particles used in working examples are shown below.

In a four necked separable flask fitted with a stirrer a condenser a thermometer a nitrogen feed tube and a dropping funnel the following materials were mixed and stirred until the system became uniform.

With stirring the above materials were heated to a temperature of 80 C. followed by stirring for 2 hours to obtain a quaternary ammonium salt containing solution. The solution obtained was cooled and thereafter 20.9 parts by mass of glycidyl methacrylate was added thereto. The mixture obtained was heated to a temperature of 80 C. and thereafter stirred for 2 hours to obtain a quaternary ammonium salt containing monomer.

The reaction solution obtained was cooled and thereafter 22.3 parts by mass of N methylol acrylamide as a copolymerization component was fed into the reaction system followed by stirring until the system became uniform. Next while continuing the stirring the reaction system was heated until its interior came to be 70 C. To this system a polymerization initiator solution prepared by dissolving 1.0 part by mass of 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN as a polymerization initiator in 50 parts by mass of isopropyl alcohol was added through the dropping funnel over a period of 1 hour. After the addition made dropwise was completed the reaction was further carried out for 5 hours in the state of reflux under introduction of nitrogen and 0.2 part by mass of AIBN was further added thereto. Thereafter the reaction was carried out for 1 hour to complete the reaction.

To the solution thus obtained 0.1 part by mass of p toluenesulfonic acid was added and this was further diluted with isopropyl alcohol to obtain an acrylic resin solution A 1 having a solid content of 40 . This resin solution was heated and dried at a temperature of 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain an acrylic resin. By analysis it was identified that this acrylic resin contained a structural unit of Formula 9 .

Acrylic resin solutions A 2 to A 13 were obtained in the same way as the acrylic resin solution A 1 except that monomers shown in Table 1 were used and also formulated in proportions shown in Table 1. Next these were heated and dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain acrylic resins which were analyzed to identify the presence of the units shown in Table 2.

In a four necked separable flask fitted with a stirrer a condenser a thermometer a nitrogen feed tube and a dropping funnel the following materials were mixed and stirred until the system became uniform.

With stirring the above materials were heated to a temperature of 80 C. followed by stirring for 2 hours to obtain a quaternary ammonium salt containing solution. The solution obtained was dried and thereafter 16.9 parts by mass of glycidyl methacrylate and 80 parts by mass of isopropyl alcohol were added thereto. The mixture obtained was heated to a temperature of 80 C. and thereafter stirred for 2 hours to obtain a quaternary ammonium salt containing monomer.

The reaction solution obtained was cooled and thereafter 48.1 parts by mass of N methylol acrylamide as a copolymerization component was fed into the reaction system followed by stirring until the system became uniform. Next while continuing the stirring the reaction system was heated until its interior came to be 70 C. To this system a polymerization initiator solution prepared by dissolving 1.0 part by mass of 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN as a polymerization initiator in 50 parts by mass of isopropyl alcohol was added through the dropping funnel over a period of 1 hour. After the addition made dropwise was completed the reaction was further carried out for 5 hours in the state of reflux under introduction of nitrogen and 0.2 part by mass of AIBN was further added thereto. Thereafter the reaction was carried out for 1 hour to complete the reaction.

To the solution thus obtained 0.1 part by mass of p toluenesulfonic acid was added and this was further diluted with isopropyl alcohol to obtain an acrylic resin solution A 14 having a solid content of 40 . Next this was heated and dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain an acrylic resin part of structure of which was as shown in Table 2.

Acrylic resin solutions A 15 to A 17 were obtained in the same way as the acrylic resin solution A 14 except that monomers shown in Table 1 were used and also formulated in proportions shown in Table 1. Next these were heated and dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain acrylic resins which were analyzed to identify the presence of the units shown in Table 2.

Acrylic resin solutions A 18 to A 22 and a 4 were obtained in the same way as the acrylic resin solution A 1 except that monomers shown in Table 1 were used and also formulated in proportions shown in Table 1. Next these were heated and dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain acrylic resins which were analyzed to identify the presence of the units shown in Table 2.

In a four necked separable flask fitted with a stirrer a condenser a thermometer a nitrogen feed tube and a dropping funnel the following materials were mixed and stirred until the system became uniform.

With stirring the above materials were heated to a temperature of 80 C. followed by stirring for 2 hours to obtain a quaternary ammonium salt containing solution. The solution obtained was cooled and thereafter 21.0 parts by mass of glycidyl methacrylate was added thereto. The mixture obtained was heated to a temperature of 80 C. and thereafter stirred for 2 hours to obtain a quaternary ammonium salt containing monomer.

The reaction solution obtained was cooled and thereafter 22.2 parts by mass of methyl methacrylate as a copolymerization component was fed into the reaction system followed by stirring until the system became uniform. Next while continuing the stirring the reaction system was heated until its interior came to be 70 C. To this system a polymerization initiator solution prepared by dissolving 1.0 part by mass of 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN as a polymerization initiator in 50 parts by mass of isopropyl alcohol was added through the dropping funnel over a period of 1 hour. After the addition made dropwise was completed the reaction was further carried out for 5 hours in the state of reflux under introduction of nitrogen and 0.2 part by mass of AIBN was further added thereto. Thereafter the reaction was carried out for 1 hour to complete the reaction.

The solution thus obtained was further diluted with isopropyl alcohol to obtain an acrylic resin solution a 1 having a solid content of 40 . This resin solution was then heated and dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain an acrylic resin in which the presence of the unit 1 and unit 2 was not identified.

In a four necked separable flask fitted with a stirrer a condenser a thermometer a nitrogen feed tube and a dropping funnel the following materials were mixed and stirred until the system became uniform.

With stirring the above materials were heated to a temperature of 70 C. To the mixture obtained a polymerization initiator solution prepared by dissolving 1.0 part by mass of 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN as a polymerization initiator in 50 parts by mass of isopropyl alcohol was added through the dropping funnel over a period of 1 hour. After the addition made dropwise was completed the reaction was further carried out for 5 hours in the state of reflux under introduction of nitrogen and 0.2 part by mass of AIBN was further added thereto. Thereafter the reaction was carried out for 1 hour to complete the reaction.

The solution thus obtained was further diluted with isopropyl alcohol to obtain an acrylic resin solution a 2 having a solid content of 40 . This resin solution was then heated and dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain an acrylic resin in which the presence of the unit 1 and unit 2 was not identified.

Acrylic resin solution a 3 was obtained in the same way as the acrylic resin solution a 2 except that monomers shown in Table 1 were used and also formulated in a proportion shown in Table 1. Next this was heated and dried at 150 C. for 30 minutes to obtain an acrylic resin in which the presence of the unit 1 and unit 2 was not identified.

As the unevenness providing particles used in the developer carrying member the following particles were used.

A developer carrying member D 1 was produced in the following way. First the following materials were mixed and the mixture obtained was dispersion treated by means of a sand mill Horizontal type Ready Mill NVM 03 trade name manufactured by AIMEX Co. Ltd. glass beads of 1.0 mm in diameter in a packing of 85 to obtain a coating fluid.

One having the same shape as a cylindrical pipe made of aluminum of a developer carrying member fitted to a pure part cartridge LASER JET Q5942A Print Cartridge Black trade name manufactured by Hewlett Packard Co. of LASER JET 4350n trade name manufactured by Hewlett Packard Co. was readied as a substrate.

This substrate was masked at its both end portions by 6 mm each and thereafter the substrate was so placed that its axis was parallel to the vertical. Then this substrate was rotated at 1 500 rpm and was coated with the coating fluid while a spray gun was descended at 35 mm second to form a coating in such a way that it came to be 7 m in thickness as a result of hardening. Subsequently the coating was hardened by heating it for 30 minutes in a temperature 150 C. hot air drying oven to obtain a developer carrying member D 1.

A magnet roller was set in the developer carrying member D 1 obtained and this was fitted to a cartridge LASER JET Q5942A Print Cartridge Black trade name manufactured by Hewlett Packard Co. to make up a developing assembly. This was mounted to a printer LASER JET 4350n trade name manufactured by Hewlett Packard Co. to make the following image evaluation. Incidentally the printer LASER JET 4350n is an electrophotographic image forming apparatus having the magnetic one component non contact developing assembly shown in . That is this developing assembly has a magnetic one component developer and also has an elastic blade as the developer layer thickness control member. Also the developer carrying member is provided in its interior with a magnet.

The image evaluation was made in three environments a high temperature and high humidity environment H H a normal temperature and normal humidity environment N N and a low temperature and low humidity environment L L . The evaluation in the high temperature and high humidity environment was made in an environment of temperature 32.5 C. and humidity 80 RH after the developing assembly was left to stand for 2 weeks in an environment of temperature 40 C. and humidity 85 RH. The evaluation in the normal temperature and normal humidity environment was made in an environment of temperature 23 C. and humidity 50 RH after the developing assembly was left to stand for 2 weeks in the like environment. The evaluation in the low temperature and low humidity environment was made in an environment of temperature 15 C. and humidity 10 RH after silica gel and the developing assembly were put into a desiccator and this was left to stand for 2 weeks at a temperature of 15 C.

In the above respective environments letter size sheets BUSINESS 4200 trade name available from Xerox Corporation 75 g m were used and character images with a print percentage of 3 were continuously printed on up to 100 sheets in A4 size longitudinal feed and thereafter images were evaluated.

Evaluation item was image density. Using a reflection densitometer RD918 trade name manufactured by Macbeth Co. the density of solid black areas when solid black images were printed was measured at 5 spots and an arithmetic mean value thereof was taken as the image density. Also a percentage change in image density between that in the low temperature and low humidity environment and that in the high temperature and high humidity environment was calculated. The results of evaluation are shown in Table 4.

Developer carrying members D 2 to D 22 and d 1 to d 4 were produced in the same way as Example 1 except that those respectively shown in Table 3 were used as coating fluids. These were fitted to the cartridges which were then each mounted to the printer to make evaluation. The results are shown in Table 4.

As Table 4 shows the results of evaluation of Examples 1 to 22 were good. On the other hand the developer carrying member d 1 of Comparative Example 1 did not contain the unit 1 and unit 2 in the acrylic resin and tended to be affected by moisture. Hence it showed a large percentage change in image density between that in the high temperature and high humidity environment and that in the low temperature and low humidity environment.

The developer carrying members d 2 and d 3 of Comparative Examples 2 and 3 also did not contain the unit 1 and unit 2 in the acrylic resin and tended to be affected by moisture. Hence they showed a large percentage change in image density between that in the high temperature and high humidity environment and that in the low temperature and low humidity environment. Also because of their low charge providing ability a low image density came. The developer carrying member d 4 of Comparative Example 4 had an acrylic resin in the structure of which the Ralkyl group had carbon atoms of 22 which was so large as to result in an insufficient dispersibility for the coating fluid and hence it showed a large percentage change in image density between that in the high temperature and high humidity environment and that in the low temperature and low humidity environment.

A coating fluid was obtained in the same way as Example 1 except that the coating fluid was formulated in a proportion as shown below.

One having the same shape as a cylindrical pipe made of aluminum of a developer carrying member fitted to a developing assembly of iR2545 trade name manufactured by CANON INC. was readied as a substrate.

This substrate was masked at its both end portions by 8 mm each and thereafter the substrate was so placed that its axis was parallel to the vertical. Then this substrate was rotated at 1 000 rpm and was coated with the coating fluid while a spray gun was descended at 25 mm second to form a coating in such a way that it came to be 13 m in thickness as a result of hardening. Subsequently the coating was hardened by heating it for 30 minutes in a temperature 150 C. hot air drying oven to obtain a developer carrying member E 23.

A magnet roller was inserted to the developer carrying member E 23 obtained and flanges were attached to its both ends. This developer carrying member was fitted as a developing roller to a developing assembly of an electrophotographic image forming apparatus iR2545 trade name manufactured by CANON INC. . The gap between its magnetic doctor blade and the developer carrying member E 23 was set to 230 m. This developing assembly was mounted to the above electrophotographic image forming apparatus to make image evaluation in the same three environments as Example 1.

Incidentally the electrophotographic image forming apparatus iR2545 is one having the non contact developing assembly making use of a magnetic one component developer as shown in . That is this developing assembly has a magnetic one component developer and also has an elastic blade as the developer layer thickness control member. Also the developer carrying member is provided in its interior with a magnet.

Here in the image evaluation A4 size plain paper CS 680 trade name available from CANON INC. 68 g m was used and character images with a print percentage of 3 were continuously copied on up to 1 000 sheets in A4 size longitudinal feed and thereafter images were evaluated. The results are shown in Table 6.

Developer carrying members e 5 and e 6 were produced in the same way as Example 23 except that those respectively shown in Table 5 were used as coating fluids. These were fitted to the developing assemblies which were then each mounted to the electrophotographic image forming apparatus to make the image evaluation. The results are shown in Table 6.

As Table 6 shows the results of evaluation of Example 23 were good. On the other hand the developer carrying member e 5 of Comparative Example 5 did not contain the unit 1 and unit 2 in the acrylic resin and tended to be affected by moisture. Hence it showed a large percentage change in image density between that in the high temperature and high humidity environment and that in the low temperature and low humidity environment.

The developer carrying member e 6 of Comparative Example 6 also did not contain the unit 1 and unit 2 in the acrylic resin and tended to be affected by moisture. Hence it showed a large percentage change in image density between that in the high temperature and high humidity environment and that in the low temperature and low humidity environment. Also because of its low charge providing ability a low image density came.

A coating fluid was obtained in the same way as Example 1 except that the coating fluid was formulated in a proportion as shown below.

One having the same shape as a cylindrical pipe made of aluminum of a developer carrying member fitted to a magenta cartridge EP82 trade name manufactured by CANON INC. of LBP2160 trade name manufactured by CANON INC. was readied as a substrate.

This substrate was masked at its both end portions by 6 mm each and thereafter the substrate was so placed that its axis was parallel to the vertical. Then this substrate was rotated at 1 500 rpm and was coated with the coating fluid while a spray gun was descended at 35 mm second to form a coating which was formed and then dried in such a way that it came to be 10 m in thickness as a result of hardening and in the same way as Example 1 for the other conditions to obtain a developer carrying member F 24.

The developer carrying member F 24 obtained was fitted to the cartridge EP82 trade name manufactured by CANON INC. to make up a developing assembly. This was mounted to a printer LBP2160 trade name manufactured by CANON INC. to make image evaluation in the same three environments as Example 1. The results are shown in Table 8.

Incidentally the printer LBP2160 is one having the non magnetic one component non contact developing assembly making use of a non magnetic toner as shown in . That is it has a non magnetic one component developer non magnetic toner and also has an elastic blade as the developer layer thickness control member.

Developer carrying members f 7 and f 8 were produced in the same way as Example 24 except that those respectively shown in Table 7 were used as coating fluids. These were fitted to the cartridges which were then each mounted to the printer to make the image evaluation. The results are shown in Table 8.

As Table 8 shows the results of evaluation of Example 24 were good. On the other hand the developer carrying member f 7 of Comparative Example 7 did not contain the unit 1 and unit 2 in the acrylic resin and tended to be affected by moisture. Hence it showed a large percentage change in image density between that in the high temperature and high humidity environment and that in the low temperature and low humidity environment.

The developer carrying member f 8 of Comparative Example 8 also did not contain the unit 1 and unit 2 in the acrylic resin and tended to be affected by moisture. Hence it showed a large percentage change in image density between that in the high temperature and high humidity environment and that in the low temperature and low humidity environment. Also because of its low charge providing ability a low image density came.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 170042 filed Aug. 3 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

