---

title: Air springs with improved high temperature performance
abstract: An air spring bellow comprising a vulcanized rubber component including the at least partially vulcanized residue of EPDM and a rubber other than EPDM.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09096741&OS=09096741&RS=09096741
owner: FIRESTONE INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS COMPANY, LLC
number: 09096741
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120412
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 474 530 filed on Apr. 12 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed toward air springs and more particularly the bellows of air springs that have improved high temperature performance.

Air springs or pneumatic suspension devices have long been used to isolate road disturbances from a vehicle seat or cab. An air spring as part of a vehicle s suspension supports the vehicle s load or mass at each axle. Typically each axle of a vehicle associated with an air spring supports the mass component or load carried by the axle. In addition there may be ancillary air springs that support driver comfort in and around the driver s compartment or cab. In an air spring a volume of gas usually air is confined within a flexible container. As an air spring is compressed jounce travel the pressure of the gas within the air spring increases and as an air spring extends rebound travel the pressure of the gas within the air spring decreases. Road disturbances are mainly absorbed by this compression and extension of the air springs as a function of work w F dx . Air springs are often engineered to have a specific spring rate or spring constant thereby controlling jounce and rebound characteristics for the desired application and for comfort.

Because an air spring may undergo countless cycles between compression and extension the air spring must include an enclosure container for the gas that is flexible and durable. Typically these enclosures are referred to as bellows or airsleeves and are made of cord fabric or metal reinforced rubber compositions. Cord fabric may be but is not limited to natural or synthetic materials.

As those skilled in the art appreciate efforts to improve the emissions from trucks or other transportation vehicles that may be equipped with air springs has resulted in among other things higher operating temperatures for the engines of these vehicles. Unfortunately however these higher temperatures have placed higher demands on those air springs that are located near the engine or the exhaust from the engine. In particular the operating temperature of the air springs has likewise increased which has resulted in a reduced service life of the air spring particularly the bellow. Likewise vehicles equipped with air springs often operate in cold environments which necessitate that the bellows have a useful low temperature operating window as well.

In one or more embodiments the present invention provides an air spring bellow comprising a vulcanized rubber component including the at least partially vulcanized residue of EPDM and a complementary rubber.

In one or more embodiments the present invention provides an air bellow prepared by a process comprising the steps of preparing a vulcanizable composition that includes EPDM a complementary rubber and a curative fabricating the vulcanizable composition into an uncured air bellow and at least partially curing the uncured air bellow.

Embodiments of the present invention are based upon the discovery that technologically useful air bellows can be manufactured from rubber compositions that include an elastomeric terpolymer which may also be referred to as EPDM. In one or more embodiments the air bellows are manufactured from rubber compositions that include a blend of EPDM and a complementary rubber. It has unexpectedly been discovered that blends of EPDM and a complementary rubber can provide air bellows with an overall advantageous balance of properties including improved high temperature performance and in certain embodiments improved low temperature performance service life at higher temperatures and fabricability.

The figures show various embodiments of air springs. In an air spring assembly is designated generally by the numeral . The air spring assembly includes flexible airsleeve which may also be referred as bellow . Bead plate is crimped to airsleeve to form an airtight seal between bead plate and airsleeve . Similarly end closure is molded to flexible airsleeve to form an airtight seal between end closure and airsleeve . End closure of airsleeve is affixed to piston by mechanical means well known in the art including for example a piston bolt not shown . Piston provides a surface for flexible airsleeve to roll on during compressive jounce travel. Flexible air spring assembly may optionally include bumper to support the vehicle when there is no air in the air springs or during extreme road disturbances. Enclosed within airsleeve is a volume of gas . Studs and hole are used to secure the flexible air spring assembly to the mounting surface of an automobile not shown .

In one or more embodiments airsleeves and are made of cord fabric or metal reinforced rubber and may be comprised of several layers as shown in a cutaway view of an exemplary airsleeve in . Exemplary airsleeve features two ply construction and includes four layers including innerliner first ply second ply and outer cover . Innerliner and outer cover may include calendared rubber. As shown first ply may include a single ply of cord reinforced rubber with the cords at a specific bias angle and second ply may include a single ply of fabric reinforced rubber with the same bias angle laid opposite that of first ply . In one or more embodiments at least one layer of the bellows of the present invention IS fabricated according to practice of the present invention wherein the layer includes EPDM. In other embodiments every layer of the bellow includes EPDM pursuant to one or more embodiments of the invention.

While the present invention is described in the context of an airsleeve and an air spring used in the suspension of an automobile one of skill in the art will appreciate that the teachings disclosed are general and the present invention may be applied to other art relating to the air spring areas. The other areas might include for example air springs for seats air springs used to support truck cabs air springs used with buses and the like.

In one or more embodiments at least one layer of an airspring bellow e.g. innerliner first ply second ply and or cover are fabricated from a vulcanizable rubber composition that includes EPDM an unsaturated rubber other than EPDM i.e. complementary rubber and a cure system. Other ingredients that may be included in the vulcanizable rubber formulation include plasticizers antioxidants fillers oils curatives and other additives that are conventionally employed in rubber compositions.

In one or more embodiments EPDM which may also be referred to as an elastomeric terpolymer includes mer units that derive from ethylene olefin and optionally diene monomer. Useful olefins include propylene. In one or more embodiments the diene monomer may include dicyclopentadiene alkyldicyclopentadiene 1 4 pentadiene 1 4 hexadiene 1 5 hexadiene 1 4 heptadiene 2 methyl 1 5 hexadiene cyclooctadiene 1 4 octadiene 1 7 octadiene 5 ethylidene 2 norbornene 5 n propylidene 2 norbornene 5 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 norbornene and mixtures thereof. Olefinic terpolymers and methods for their manufacture are known as disclosed at U.S. Pat. No. 3 280 082 which is incorporated herein by reference. For purposes of this specification elastomeric terpolymers may simply be referred to as EPDM.

In one or more embodiments the elastomeric terpolymer may include at least 50 weight percent in other embodiments at least 52 weight percent in other embodiments at least 62 weight percent and in other embodiments at least 64 weight percent mer units deriving from ethylene in these or other embodiments the elastomeric terpolymer may include less than 80 weight percent in other embodiments less than 70 weight percent and in other embodiments less than 69 weight percent mer units deriving from ethylene. In one or more embodiments the elastomeric terpolymer may include at least 0.5 weight percent in other embodiments at least 2 weight percent in other embodiments at least 2.4 weight percent mer units deriving from diene monomer in these or other embodiments the elastomeric terpolymer may include less than 20 weight percent in other embodiments less than 10 weight percent in other embodiments less than 8 weight percent in other embodiments less than 7 weight percent in other embodiments less than 6 weight percent in other embodiments less than 5 weight percent and in other embodiments less than 4 weight percent mer units deriving from diene monomer. In one or more embodiments the balance of the mer units derive from propylene or other olefins.

In one or more embodiments useful elastomeric terpolymers may be characterized by a neat Mooney Viscosity ML1 4 125 C. which is the Mooney of the non oil extended polymer of at least 35 in other embodiments at least 40 or in other embodiments at least 45 in these or other embodiments the neat Mooney is less than 70 in other embodiments less than 65 or in other embodiments less than 60.

Useful elastomeric terpolymers include amorphous terpolymers and semi crystalline terpolymers. Amorphous polymers are those having from 0 to about 2 weight percent crystallinity semi crystalline polymers are those having from about 2 to about 13 weight percent crystallinity.

Useful elastomeric terpolymers are commercially available. Examples include Nordel IP 4640 available from DuPont Dow Elastomers Wilmington Del. which has a Mooney Viscosity ML 125 C. of about 40 an ethylene to propylene ratio of 55 40 and about 5 weight percent of a third monomer 5 ethylidiene 2 norborene . Examples also include Keltan 2326 available from DSM Elastomers Harleen Netherlands which has a Mooney Viscosity ML 125 C. of about 50 an ethylene to propylene ratio of 66 34 and about 2.5 weight percent of a third monomer 5 ethylidiene 2 norborene . Also suitable for the present invention is Royalene 4611 which has a Mooney Viscosity ML 125 C. of about 65 5 an ethylene content of about 68 weight percent and about 2.5 weight percent of a third monomer.

In one or more embodiments the complementary rubber which may also be referred to as a vulcanizable elastomer other than EPDM includes those polymers that are capable of being cured or co cured also referred to as vulcanized to form elastomeric compositions of matter.

In one more embodiments the complementary rubber includes natural rubber and or synthetic rubber. Exemplary types of synthetic rubber includes synthetic polyisoprene polybutadiene polyisobutylene co isoprene polychloroprene poly ethylene co propylene poly styrene co butadiene poly styrene co isoprene and poly styrene co isoprene co butadiene poly isoprene co butadiene poly ethylene co propylene co diene polysulfide rubber acrylic rubber urethane rubber nitrile rubber silicone rubber epichlorohydrin rubber and mixtures thereof. In particular embodiments the complementary rubber is a blend of natural rubber and a polydiene such as polybutadiene.

In particular embodiments the complementary rubber includes polymers that derive from the polymerization of halogenated dienes and optionally monomer copolymerizable therewith. A useful halogenated diene is 2 chloro 1 3 butadiene which is also known as chloroprene. Monomer copolymerizable with chloroprene includes sulfur and 2 3 dichloro 1 3 butadiene. Homopolymers of chloroprene are generally referred to as polychloroprene. For purposes of this description the rubbers deriving from the copolymerization of chloroprene and monomer copolymerizable therewith may be referred to as polychloroprene copolymers.

In one or more embodiments polychloroprene or polychloroprene copolymers employed in the practice of this invention may be characterized by a Mooney viscosity MLat 100 C. of at least 25 in other embodiments at least 40 in other embodiments at least 60 in other embodiments at least 80 and in other embodiments at least 100. In these or other embodiments the polychloroprene or polychloroprene copolymers may be characterized by a Mooney viscosity MLat 100 C. of less than 150 in other embodiments less than 130 in other embodiments less than 110 in other embodiments less than 80 in other embodiments less than 60 and in other embodiments less than 50. In particular embodiments the polychloroprene or polychloroprene copolymers may be characterized by a Mooney viscosity MLat 100 C. of from about 100 to about 120 and in other embodiments from about 41 to about 51.

In one or more embodiments blends of distinct polychloroprene or polychloroprene copolymers may be employed to achieve a desirable balance of properties. These distinctions may be based upon comonomer content and or viscosity of the polymers.

Particularly useful examples of desirable polychloroprene or polychloroprene copolymers are available from DuPont Performance Elastomers Wilmington Del. under the Neoprene WD and WRT family designations. It is believed that Neoprene WD and WRT are relatively crystallization resistant versus Neoprene G type and are copolymers of chloroprene and 2 3 dichloro 1 3 butadiene. Neoprene WD exhibits a Mooney Viscosity range MLat 100 C. of 100 120 while Neoprene WRT exhibits a Mooney Viscosity range MLat 100 C. of 41 51.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include an antioxidant. Useful antioxidants include bisphenol type antioxidants diphenylamines and zinc salts.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include an antidegradant which may protect the final product vulcanizate against damaging external influences such as oxidation ozone heat and dynamic stresses. Suitable antidegradants include 4 and 5 methyl 2 mercaptobenzimidazole MMBI . Another suitable antidegradant is a mixed diaryl p phenylene type antidegradant. Another suitable antidegradant is IPPD or N isopropyl N phenyl p phenylenediamine. Another suitable antidegradant is 6PPD or N 1 3 dimethylbutyl N phenyl p phenylenediamine.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include one or more fillers. Fillers may include organic and inorganic fillers. For example the vulcanizable composition may include carbon black. In particular embodiments the carbon black may include virtually pure elemental carbon in the form of colloidal particles that are produced by incomplete combustion or thermal decomposition of gaseous or liquid hydrocarbons under controlled conditions. In particular embodiments a reinforcing carbon black is used in other embodiments non reinforcing carbon black is used and in other embodiments a blend of reinforcing and non reinforcing carbons are employed. Examples of reinforcing carbon blacks include N300 or N330 carbon black. In other embodiments non reinforcing carbon blacks include those conforming to the characteristics of ASTM N550 and ASTM N762.

In one or more embodiments the filler may include silica. Useful forms of silica silicon dioxide include crystalline and amorphous silica. The crystalline form of silica includes quartz tridymite and cristobalite. Amorphous silica may occur when the silicon and oxygen atoms are arranged in an irregular form as identified by X ray diffraction. In one or more embodiments the silica is a precipitated silica. In these or other embodiments fumed silica is employed. Commercially available forms of silica are available from PPG Industries Inc. Monroeville Pa. Degussa Corporation Parsippany N.J. and J.M. Huber Corporation Atlanta Ga. . One useful commercial product is Rubbersil RS 150 which is characterized by a BET surface area of 150 m g tapped density of 230 g liter pH 5 in water suspension of 7 SiO2 content of 98 NaSOcontent of 2 and AlOcontent of 0.2 .

Other organic fillers include coal filler and ground recycled rubber. Other useful inorganic fillers include clays talc mica titanium dioxide and calcium carbonate. Useful clays include hydrated aluminum silicates.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include low oil swell factices vulcanized oils and or plasticizers. In specific embodiments these compounds include sulfur vulcanized vegetable oils.

In one or more embodiments useful plasticizers which may also be referred to as softeners include but are not limited to fatty acids vegetable oils petroleum products coal tar products pine products esters and resins. In particular embodiments the plasticizers include esters such as dicapryilphthalate butylcuminate dibutylphthalate butyllactate glycerol chlorobenzoate methylricinoleate octyloleate dioctylphthalate or dioctylsebacate.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include a tackifier or tackifier resin. As is known in the art these resins generally increase the tackiness of the composition. Natural or synthetic resins may be employed. In particular embodiments a nitrile rubber latex is employed as a tackifier. In certain embodiments the resin may include a resin of acetylene and p t butylphenol. Certain embodiments selection of the tackifier and the amount of tackifier employed advantageously compensates for the lack of tackiness associate with the EPDM which lack of tackiness would frustrate the processing of the vulcanizable composition and or the manufacturing of the bellow.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include wax. Wax is a processing aid and serves as a release agent. For example the vulcanizable composition of this invention may include a low viscosity polyethylene wax. Low viscosity polyethylene wax is a release or antisticking agent.

As mentioned above the vulcanizable composition includes a curative or cure package. The cure package may include a sulfur based compound and may also include other optional ingredients such as cure accelerators or cure retarders. For example the cure package may include sulfur in combination with a sulfur donor. Exemplary sulfur donors include TMTD tetramethylthiuram disulfide or DTDM or IPPD. Other ingredients that may assist or impact the cure include zinc oxide as well as antioxidants such as Vulkanox MB2 AO2 . As is known in the art where the vulcanizable rubber include halogenations metal oxides such as zinc oxide and magnesium oxide may be used to crosslink the rubber.

Sulfurs that are soluble or insoluble in elastomers may be used. For example polymeric sulfur is useful.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include stearic acid. Stearic acid octadecanoic acid is a waxy solid and has the chemical formula CHO. Stearic acid is particularly effective as a processing aid in minimizing mill and calendar roll sticking.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include magnesium oxide MgO . Magnesium oxide may be used to neutralize trace hydrogen chloride that may be liberated by the polymer during processing vulcanization heat aging or service. By removing the hydrogen chloride magnesium oxide prevents auto catalytic decomposition resulting in greater stability. Magnesium oxide may also take part in the crosslinking process.

In one or more embodiments the cure system includes one or more cure retarders which serve to slow the cure rate and ideally provide a marching cure profile. In particular embodiments especially where the EPDM containing vulcanizable compositions are employed to prepare the inner and outer layers of the multi layered bellow the cure rate of the inner and outer layers is slowed to match the cure rate of the core i.e. cord containing layers. In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable compositions of this invention are manipulated to achieve a tof from about 5 to about 15 minutes or in other embodiments from about 6 to about 13 minutes at 243 F. as determined by standard techniques using an oscillating die rheometer ODR .

In general the vulcanizable compositions include a sufficient amount of rubber to provide desirable properties to the bellow. In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable compositions include at least 25 in other embodiments at least 35 and in other embodiments at least 45 rubber based upon the total weight of the vulcanizable composition. In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include less than 60 by weight in other embodiments less than 50 by weight and in other embodiments less than 40 by weight rubber based upon the total weight of the vulcanizable composition. In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include from about 20 to about 70 weight in other embodiments from about 30 to about 60 weight and in other embodiments from about 35 to about 55 weight based on the total weight of the composition.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include at least 15 weight in other embodiments at least 25 weight in other embodiments at least 35 weight in other embodiments at least 45 weight in other embodiments at least 50 weight in other embodiments at least 55 weight in other embodiments at least 65 weight in other embodiments at least 70 weight and in other embodiments at least 75 weight EPDM based upon the total weight of the rubber in the vulcanizable composition. In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include less than 90 weight in other embodiments less than 85 weight in other embodiments less than 80 weight in other embodiments less than 75 weight in other embodiments less than 70 weight in other embodiments less than 65 weight and in other embodiments less than 60 weight EPDM based upon the total weight of the rubber in the vulcanizable composition. In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions include from about 40 to about 80 weight in other embodiments from about 50 to about 70 weight and in other embodiments from about 55 to about 65 weight EPDM based on the total weight of the rubber in the vulcanizable composition.

In one or more embodiments the balance of the rubber component of the compositions of this invention includes one or more complementary rubbers i.e. vulcanizable rubber other than EPDM . In other words the compositions of the present invention include at least 10 weight in other embodiments at least 15 weight in other embodiments at least 20 weight in other embodiments at least 25 weight in other embodiments at least 30 weight in other embodiments at least 35 weight in other embodiments at least 40 weight vulcanizable rubber other than EPDM based upon the total weight of the rubber in the vulcanizable composition. In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include less than 60 weight in other embodiments less than 55 weight in other embodiments less than 50 weight in other embodiments less than 45 weight in other embodiments less than 40 weight in other embodiments less than 35 weight in other embodiments less than 30 in other embodiments less than 25 weight and in other embodiments less than 20 weight vulcanizable rubber other than EPDM based upon the total weight of the rubber in the vulcanizable composition. In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions include from about 10 to about 60 weight in other embodiments from about 20 to about 50 weight and in other embodiments from about 30 to about 45 weight unsaturated rubber other than EPDM based upon the total weight of the rubber in the vulcanizable composition.

In particular embodiments the complementary rubber includes a blend of natural rubber and a polydiene rubber e.g. polybutadiene and the weight ratio of the natural rubber to the polydiene may be from 0.3 1 to 2 1 in other embodiments from 0.5 1 to 1.5 1 and in other embodiments from 0.7 1 to 1.3 1.

In one or more embodiments the weight ratio of EPDM to complementary rubber i.e. unsaturated rubber other than EPDM may be from about 10 1 to about 1 1 in other embodiments from about 8 1 to about 2 1 and in other embodiments from about 5 1 to about 3 1.

In one or more embodiments the complementary rubber includes polychloroprene or polychloroprene copolymers. In other embodiments the amount of polychloroprene or polychloroprene copolymers may be reduced or limited. In these or other embodiments the amount of polychloroprene copolymers that is used in other air spring compositions may be reduced by an amount substantially equivalent to the amount of EPDM that is present. In other words polychloroprene copolymers are replaced in the air spring composition by EPDM. In particular embodiments the vulcanizable compositions are devoid of polychloroprene.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include at least 7 parts by weight pbw in other embodiments at least 10 pbw and in other embodiments at least 12 pbw plasticizer based on 100 parts by weight rubber phr . In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions may include less than 25 pbw in other embodiments less than 20 pbw and in other embodiments less than 18 pbw plasticizer phr. In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable compositions include from about 7 to about 22 weight in other embodiments from about 10 to about 20 pbw and in other embodiments from about 12 to about 17 pbw plasticizer based on 100 parts by weight rubber phr .

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include at least about 20 in other embodiments at least about 30 and in other embodiments at least about 40 pbw carbon black phr. In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include less than about 100 in other embodiments less than about 75 and in other embodiments less than about 50 pbw carbon black phr.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include at least 15 in other embodiments at least 20 and in other embodiments at least 25 pbw silica phr. In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include less than 250 in other embodiments less than 200 in other embodiments less than 90 and in other embodiments less than 80 pbw silica phr. Where both carbon black and silica are employed the weight ratio of carbon black to silica may range from 9 1 to 0.5 1 in other embodiments from 5 1 to 1 1 and in other embodiments from 4 1 to 2 1.

In certain embodiments the vulcanizable composition of this invention is devoid of factice. In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include at least about 1 in other embodiments at least about 2 and in other embodiments at least about 3 pbw factice phr. In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include less than about 10 in other embodiments less than about 8 and in other embodiments less than about 6 pbw factice phr.

In certain embodiments the vulcanizable composition of this invention may include at least 0.1 part by weight in other embodiments at least 0.2 parts by weight in other embodiments at least 0.4 parts by weight in other embodiments at least 0.5 parts by weight in other embodiments at least 0.6 parts by weight in other embodiments at least 0.7 parts by weight in other embodiments at least 0.8 parts by weight in other embodiments at least 0.9 parts by weight and in other embodiments at least 1.0 parts by weight tackifier resin phr. In these or other embodiments the compositions of this invention may include less than 10 parts by weight in other embodiments less than 8 parts by weight in other embodiments less than 6 parts by weight in other embodiments less and 4 parts by weight and in other embodiments less than 2 parts by weight tackifier per 100 parts by weight rubber.

In these or other embodiments the vulcanizable composition may include less than 20 pbw in other embodiments less than 18 pbw in other embodiments less than 16 pbw in other embodiments less than 14 pbw and in other embodiments less than 12 pbw tackifier phr.

Those skilled in the art will be able to select an appropriate amount of the various ingredients that can be used based upon the ultimate desired properties sought within the airsleeve of an air spring. Likewise those skilled in the art will be able to select an appropriate amount of curative and complementary cure agents in order to achieve a desired level of cure.

The compositions for preparing one or more layers of airsleeve according to the present invention can be prepared by conventional means using conventional rubber compounding equipment such as Brabender Banbury Werner Pfleiderer Sigma blade mixer two roll mill or other mixers suitable for forming viscous relatively uniform admixtures. Mixing techniques depend on a variety of factors such as the specific types of polymers used and the fillers processing oils waxes and other ingredients used. In one or more embodiments the ingredients can be added together in a single stage. In other embodiments some of the ingredients such as EPDM carbon black etc. can be first loaded followed by the rubber. In other embodiments a more conventional manner can be employed where the rubber is added first followed by the other ingredients. In even other embodiments the rubber may be added at the same time as the EPDM.

Mixing cycles generally range from about 2 to 10 minutes. In certain embodiments an incremental procedure can be used whereby the rubber and part of the ingredients are added first and the remaining ingredients are added in additional increments. In other embodiments part of the rubber can be added on top of the other ingredients. In other embodiments the rubber and EPDM are added together. In one or more embodiments two stage mixing can be employed. Where polychloroprene is employed as an ingredient in the rubber component of the compositions of this invention a split masterbatch technique may be employed were the polychloroprene is separately compounded e.g. during a first mixing stage to form a masterbatch that is then combined with a masterbatch that may include the EPDM and or the other complementary rubber. The masterbatch may include for example rubber oil and filler.

The EPDM can be added with the rubber near the beginning of the mixing cycle. e.g. in the masterbatch In one or more embodiments the EPDM is added before the cure package is added. In other embodiments it can be added with the cure package during final mix.

When utilizing an internal mixer the dry or powdery materials such as the carbon black can be added first followed by the processing aids and finally the rubber to form the masterbatch. The cure package sulfur accelerants antidegradants etc. can be added near the end of the mixing cycle and at lower temperatures to prevent premature crosslinking of the rubber.

Once mixed the rubber composition can be then formed into a sheet via calendaring or combined with a reinforcing cord fabric or metal . The compositions of the invention can also be formed into various types of articles using other techniques such as extrusion.

The vulcanizable rubber compositions of the present invention can be formed into airsleeves of air springs by employing conventional techniques for fabricating and manufacturing air springs. Air spring and air sleeve constructions and methods of their manufacture are known in the art as exemplified in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 250 203 5 527 170 and 6 439 550 which are incorporated herein by reference. In one or more embodiments the various layers of the bellow are fabricated into a green bellow which is an uncured bellow and then subjected to curing conditions.

In one or more embodiments the vulcanizable rubber compositions of the present invention show improved heat resistance while acceptable green strength and oil resistance properties are maintained. Flex properties at relatively high temperatures can be improved as illustrated by resistance to crack propagation during a flex fatigue test. In certain embodiments air springs formed from the inventive compositions are able to operate at service temperatures of about 115 to about 125 C. In particular embodiments the bellows operate at a temperature in excess of 120 C. By employing the compositions of the present invention good flex properties are maintained when the upper limit of the operating temperatures is increased from about 82 to about 93 C. to from about 115 to about 125 C.

Various modifications and alterations that do not depart from the scope and spirit of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art. This invention is not to be duly limited to the illustrative embodiments set forth herein.

