---

title: Advertisements on mobile devices using integrations with mobile applications
abstract: A server for delivering advertisements to mobile devices includes an application programming interface executable by a processor and configured to: receive an ad call over a network from an application of a mobile device to deliver an advertisement to an ad position on a small screen thereof, the ad position located at a fixed location of the application, the fixed location having a fixed height and a fixed width as viewed by a user of the mobile device throughout use of the application; detect the ad position, including the fixed height and width of the ad position within the fixed location; retrieve from the storage memory an advertisement having an ad format best matching the fixed height and the fixed width for filling the ad call at the fixed location; and deliver the advertisement to the mobile device for display in the ad position during the execution of the application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583188&OS=08583188&RS=08583188
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08583188
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120829
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 939 658 filed Nov. 14 2007 and entitled Advertisements on Mobile Devices Using Integrations with Mobile Applications now U.S. Pat. No. 8 275 419 issued Sep. 25 2012 which is incorporated herein by this reference in its entirety.

The disclosed embodiments relate to advertisements ads on mobile devices and more particularly to ads served to mobile devices using integrations of ad position within applications through which the ads are displayed.

Advertising on the interne has been historically tied to content. Advertisements ads are displayed on specific web pages. Monetization of those ads typically involves and benefits the publisher of content displayed as part of a web page on a mobile device. This model has worked well on the personal computer because there is adequate real estate or display area on a personal computer screen as part of the content for insertion of the ads e.g. within the web page of the browser used to display the content. Additionally the content publisher usually provides key content and possibly user data to ensure good targeting of the ads. Targeting of ads involves the gathering and tracking of personal user information and browsing behavior of particular searchers with which advertising is custom fit to those particular people.

However the service of ads to mobile devices varies in significant ways. Given the small size of most mobile device screens there is limited space for the content to share with ads. This often results in unsatisfactory viewing experiences by searchers which significantly diminishes advertising results for advertisers. For example an advertiser may insert ads at the end of a short messaging service SMS message. SMS messages however have a fixed maximum length and this technique depends on adequate space e.g. a certain number of characters being left over for the ad to be inserted for display.

There also exists a lack of adequate context in the mobile devices advertising arena to improve targeting of ads to particular users. For example an e mail or SMS message may provide very little value for targeting to commercial ad categories. This is because every day messages are very personal and do not necessarily have a commercial context. In contrast a web browser on a computer for instance has as one of its primary purposes the access by users to commercial information and purchasing opportunities. With cookies internet protocol I.P. address resolution the ability to track clicks etc. the web browser of a personal computer is a useful tool for tracking commercial related information of a user. These abilities are not integrated within a mobile device and therefore the ability to track a user s commercial related behavior and interests is more difficult.

It is also known to stream advertisements through a client window displayed on a personal computer and to provide a user interface controls for interaction therewith. This client window is not fixed but is movable by the user to various positions within the computer s screen. The client window also is not integrated within a specific application although interaction with the client window may cause a linking action that causes a web browser of the computer to go to a website of an advertiser.

In the following description numerous specific details of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures etc. are provided for a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the systems and methods disclosed herein. However the disclosed system and methods can be practiced with other methods components materials etc. or can be practiced without one or more of the specific details. In some cases well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail. Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. The components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations.

The order of the steps or actions of the methods described in connection with the disclosed embodiments may be changed as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Thus any order appearing in the Figures such as in flow charts or in the Detailed Description is for illustrative purposes only and is not meant to imply a required order.

Several aspects of the embodiments described are illustrated as software modules or components. As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within a memory device and or transmitted as electronic signals over a system bus or wired or wireless network. A software module may for instance include one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine program object component data structure etc. that performs one or more tasks or implements particular abstract data types.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may include disparate instructions stored in different locations of a memory device which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may include a single instruction or many instructions and it may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices.

The mobile network infrastructure the PSDN and the PSTN all may communicate through another network such as the interne the World Wide Web a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or through an extranet. The mobile network infrastructure and the network may include some levels of integration between the two and therefore that each is separately labeled is for clarity of discussion only. The ad serving network may include the network and accessible therethrough a search engine or Web server an ad server including an advertiser database and a plurality of advertisers and mobile application developers .

The advertiser database is for storing advertisements ads and advertiser related administrative information. The ads are deliverable over the network by the ad server to web pages or other applications executable from personal computing devices including the mobile devices of interest in this disclosure. Ads include text graphics and other information and data provided by an advertiser for presentation to a user of a mobile device such as mobile device . As previously noted ads served to a web page or browser of a mobile device are limited in regards to space dimension etc. where such ads will oftentimes not be viewable or of such poor quality as to not have the desired marketing affect sought for by an advertiser . As will be discussed one or more ads served by the ad server may be stored locally by a mobile device for insertion on a rotating basis into the applications executed thereon. Additionally the advertisers may submit ads that they want served to applications on mobile devices to the ad server which may be owned or operated by an online service provider OSP such as Yahoo of Sunnyvale Calif. or Google of Mountain View Calif. that also act as advertisement brokerages.

There are several popular applications available for current mobile devices or to be available in the future for future mobile devices which include voice applications such as address book dialer and voicemail and data applications such as browsers short message service SMS e mail games map navigation etc. There are many sources to these applications some of which include 1 chip set and operating system vendors such as Qualcomm that provide applications integrated within their operating system stack 2 original equipment or device manufactures OEM may add or replace applications with their own branded applications 3 mobile carriers may provide applications that are preinstalled or downloadable and 4 the developer community may author additional applications. All of these sources of applications are jointly referred to herein as application developers .

The display screen includes a plurality of areas in which text graphics and other information may be displayed. These areas may typically be defined by software or other applications operating on the mobile device . As discussed such applications include web browsers short message service SMS games e mail and even other non content applications such as address books calendars and dialer screens. The screen of the mobile device displays the application as directed by software code stored in the mobile device for execution of the same. Applications are designed to be executed on certain types of mobile devices where original equipment manufacturers OEMs of the devices may need to work with the application developers to ensure that the application as executed fits within the viewable screen area which is much smaller than a typically computer screen.

The exemplary embodiment of illustrates an advertisement ad position integrated within a substantially fixed screen location on the display when an application is executed thereon. The ad position may be located in any region or regions of the display screen . In accordance with the present embodiments the ad position is directly integrated into applications that operate in conjunction with the mobile device .

Direct integration of a dedicated ad position into specific applications e.g. coded into the applications for execution on the mobile device and allows the ad position to be reserved in advance. The ad position may be integrated directly into the source code of the application. The location on the screen of the ad position will then remain substantially fixed absent updates or changes to the application itself. Ad position integration within mobile applications prevents the need to custom fit different types of ads within varying available positions of a web page or other content delivered within the applications thus making ad delivery as disclosed herein content independent. For example the bottom one fourth of an SMS application screen could be reserved for an ad. Dedicated ad positions will result in much more predictable space availability for these ads with fixed height and width dimensions similar to ads served on a personal computer. Ad position integration will provide better value for advertisers and also enable greater reach as ads can be inserted in the ad position each time the application is in use regardless of whether the content enables such a position for an ad.

Note that the screen location is shown as spanning vertically over a set of horizontally running pixel bands but the screen location may vary vertically and horizontally in any number of possible areas of the screen . For instance the horizontally running pixel bands need not run the entire width of the screen . Such areas also need not be symmetrical.

In another exemplary embodiment the screen the processor the storage and the power supply module electrically communicate through a communications bus . The communications bus is operable to transmit control and communications signals from and between the components connected to the bus such as power regulation memory access instructions and other system information. In this embodiment the processor is coupled to the receiver and to the transmitter .

The memory storage stores the applications executed on the mobile device in addition to the ads that may be stored locally for insertion in the ad position created within the application. When the application is active it will call for ads directly from the ad server and display those ads in the area s reserved for ads e.g. in the ad position . The logic for requesting for an ad as well as the display of the ad may be independent of the content within the application at any given time. For example an SMS application could call for an ad whenever the user opens an SMS message. The screen of the mobile device a cell phone depicted in illustrates a sample SMS application with dedicated content independent real estate the ad position located at the screen location into which an ad has been delivered upon request and inserted by the SMS application.

In one embodiment an advertising brokerage company collaborates with the application developers of mobile device applications to create dedicated real estate for one or more ads therein. The application developers may integrate an ad call into the application such that the application is enabled to make ad calls to the ad server at various points in the user flow. The ad call retrieves one or more ads from the ad server and stores them in the memory storage . When the application is executed the ad call is then executed to either or variably pull an ad from the memory storage or directly from the ad server over the network . The ad call pulls ads from these various locations and during intermittent or periodic moments during use of the application as determined by the coded ad call within the ad position . When the requested ad is delivered the mobile device inserts the ad for display to a user within the ad position as located in the substantially fixed screen location .

When another ad call is executed either after a predetermined period of time of use of the application or upon execution of another application a new plurality of ads may be fetched from the ad server by the mobile device . These newly received ads may be stored in the memory storage as a replacement or an augmentation to those previously stored therein.

The ad server may include a user data targeting technologies module to carry out analysis on information received and or stored in the ad server so that the ad server may send to the mobile device targeted advertising as related to the particular user of the mobile device . This information may include information related to the user s interests and behavior. For instance the information needed for such targeting of particular users may be obtained as they interact through various applications of the mobile device with those of the ad brokerage company in addition to interaction with related applications and services whether accessed through the mobile device or other computing devices such as a personal computer.

As long as the ad brokerage company knows the particular user with which it interacts over the network useful targeting information may be collected and eventually used by the user data targeting technologies module to send targeted advertising to the mobile device of a particular user. For instance the SMS application shown in the mobile device of could make a request for an ad whenever the user opens an SMS message. The request could carry additional information that would help better target the ad for the user. The information could include a user s location a model of the mobile device being used by the user and content being seen by the user. While such content is not needed for service of the ads to the ad position it may be useful for purpose of ad targeting. The ad server may also include an ad booking and reporting module for handling the ad campaigns of the advertisers and for interaction with the same in terms of sending reports.

Various modifications changes and variations apparent to those of skill in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and systems disclosed. The embodiments may include various steps which may be embodied in machine executable instructions to be executed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other electronic device . Alternatively the steps may be performed by hardware components that contain specific logic for performing the steps or by any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes described herein. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards propagation media or other type of medial machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. For example instructions for performing described processes may be transferred from a remote computer e.g. a server to a requesting computer e.g. a client by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. network connection .

