---

title: Video management system over satellite
abstract: A videoconference system has videoconference terminals which communicate with a centralized station over satellite. Video signals from each videoconference terminal are unicast to the centralized station via satellite. The centralized station forms a composite signal of all the video signals multicasts the composite signal to the local videoconference terminals over satellite that can be received by hundreds, thousands or more recipients. The system dynamically allocates satellite bandwidth and other network resources to establish a high definition videoconference call on demand. A frequency allocation manager manages the resources available on the satellite network according with the capacity of each transponder and network resources available. It administrates the resources available and dynamically assigns a satellite capacity and network resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08384758&OS=08384758&RS=08384758
owner: EMC SatCom Technologies, LLC
number: 08384758
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120319
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 285 870 filed Oct. 31 2011 which claims priority to provisional application No. 61 521 053 filed Aug. 8 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to conference management. More particularly the present invention is for a video management system over a multicast satellite network using bandwidth on demand.

Videoconferencing systems are typically designed to operate over terrestrial networks using unicast platforms based on H323 and Session Initiation Protocol SIP protocols. Each videoconference terminal sends and receives video signals to the other participating terminals. The videoconference is established by having unicast bi directional connections between the video terminals. So a videoconference having three sites A B C would require three unicast connections A B A C B C and a videoconference between four sites A B C D would require six unicast connections A B A C A D B C B D C D. Each connection requires a channel with sufficient bandwidth to send and receive the video signals so that the total bandwidth required is cumulative. If each of the three unicast connections in a 3 way videoconference required a 2 Mbit bandwidth the total videoconferencing system would require 6 Mbit of bandwidth 2 Mbit 3 channels . However this type of system is costly inefficient and prone to failure.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a videoconference system which communicates via satellite. It is a further object of the invention to provide a videoconference system having remote stations which communicate over satellite with a hub station. It is a further object of the invention to provide a videoconference system which can serve geographically dispersed locations. It is yet another object of the invention to provide a videoconference system which can concurrently connect few to thousands of users.

In accordance with these and other objects of the invention a videoconference system is provided which communicates over satellite. The invention is bandwidth efficient and the videoconference sessions have high quality independent of congestion conditions over the transport network. Videoconference signals can be multicast over satellite so that a signal from a single sender can be received by hundreds thousands or more recipients to reduce satellite consumption. The system dynamically allocates satellite bandwidth and other network resources to establish a high definition videoconference call on demand. A frequency allocation manager manages the resources available on the satellite network according with the capacity of each transponder and network resources available. It administrates the resources available and dynamically assigns a satellite capacity and network resources.

In describing a preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the drawings specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However the invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terms so selected and it is to be understood that each specific term includes all technical equivalents that operate in similar manner to accomplish a similar purpose.

As shown in a system is provided having a Hub Station H and a plurality of Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSwhich communicate with one another via the satellite . The Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSeach include an antenna and hardware and signal conditioning elements which control the transmission and reception of signals over the antenna to from the Hub Station H via the satellite . The Hub Station H includes an antenna and hardware and signal conditioning elements which control the transmission and reception of signals over the antenna to from the Remote Stations via the satellite .

The Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSeach have a Videoconference Endpoint VCE . As shown the VCE includes a display screen a videoconference endpoint element CODEC a video audio camera and a microphone . The VCE generates an outgoing video audio signal and receives and displays an incoming video audio signal. The endpoint connects to the display screen to display images and also connects to the video camera to receive video images and to the microphone to receive audio. The VCE also includes or is in communication with a user interface control device .

The Hub Station includes a Video Management System VMS module or server and a Media Control Unit MCU . The VMS server includes or is in communication with a frequency manager statistics and monitoring module and an administration module . The VMS can also have or be in communication with a memory or database to store data for the various modules . The modules are shown as separate elements but can be a single shared database. The VMS controls the operation of the Hub station H based on information stored at each of the modules . The administration module contains information on the configuration of the overall system. The frequency manager contains information on the monitoring allocation and uses of the satellite spectrum. For instance in a star network configuration there are M Remote Station satellite terminals connected to the Hub Station H via a primary link with the modulator and the demodulator where the modulator and demodulator together form a modem . The MSC utilizes Time Division Multiple Access TDMA signaling so that the uplink TDMA channels are time shared by all of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSand the downlink TDM channels are multicast.

The MCU is connected to a router which in turn is connected to N outbound multicast channels MU. . . MU and M return channels R. . . R. The multicast channels and the return channels preferably use standard H323 or SIP protocol over IP transport bidirectional channel. The return channels receive signals from the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS and are preferably Single Channel Per Carrier SCPC . The parameters for the SCPC return channels including symbol rate data rate FEC etc. are defined by the Administrator module . Preferably each return channel accommodates a single signal at a single frequency and bandwidth as. Each return channel is allocated to a specific frequency on demand according to the need of a user to establish a connection between one of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSand an available return channel . As best shown in the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSsend out a signal from the modulator which is then received on one of the return channels at the Hub Station H. The return channels demodulate the received signal and pass it through the router to the MCU for further processing.

As further shown in the outbound multicast channels simultaneously and continuously transmit multicast signals from the Hub Station H to all of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS. The MCU prepares a composite image signal in the form of IP packets from the video audio signals received on the Return Channels modulates the composite signal and multicasts the composite signal out over one or more of the outbound multicast channels to the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS. This provides a continuous presence videoconference call for display at numerous Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSat one time. The composite videoconference signals are received at the demodulator of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS. The demodulators are always connected to one of the outbound multicast channels to receive any multicast signal being transmitted by the Hub Station.

Each Remote Station RS RS. . . RSpreferably has its own Monitor System Channel control MSC modulator demodulator switch Videoconference Endpoint VCE which can include or communicate with a high definition user interface connection control device . The control device allows multiple parties to engage in a videoconference. Users can login manage their phone book call other subscribers or start an ad hoc call as well as terminate an ongoing call session. The control device uses standard Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP commands to commission remote modems modems in the Hub station H and SNMP or Application Programming Interface API commands to dial on the videoconference H323 SIP endpoints of the Video On Demand VOD subscribers.

The frequency manager can include a memory or database of available modems in the Hub station H and a table of available frequencies. The VMS server provides a backup mechanism to ensure that the availability and statistics of the modems is accurately reflected in the frequency manager and the statistics module . The VMS periodically polls the modulator and demodulator and records the status to the statistics monitoring module and the frequency manager . For instance if the modulator is active the VMS knows that a designated return channel is not available. The VMS can also determine if the modulator or demodulator is faulty or inactive and record that as well. The statistics monitoring module also retains information about system usage billing idle channels and the quality of conference calls which can all be obtained based on polling performed by the VMS server .

The control device allows for users to schedule VOD calls in advance and also is capable of calling non VOD subscribers defined in the phone book or ad hoc calls. The control device is preferably in direct communication with the VCE and the switch and implemented via a website. The control device can be directly coupled with the VCE and the switch or can be a separate device which is in wireless communication with the VCE and the switch . The control device is preferably includes a processor operating software instructions and can be for instance a personal computer smartphone or other device. The control device is preferably located at the same room or location as the VCE .

The control device is used to control the operation of the VCE . The control device provides an easy to use user interface to manage the basic functions of the one associated VCE . The control device includes the functions of connect disconnect from a videoconference VOD phone book non VOD phone book recent calls camera and microphone control such as far end and near end cameral control pan tilt zoom self view on off mute unmute and volume control. The user can also use the control device to establish a High Definition HD videoconference session using a scheduling system. The scheduling system automatically begins the configuration of the modems and places the HD videoconference call on the time setting on the database. The scheduling can begin videoconferences ad hoc or scheduled.

Operation of the system will be discussed with reference to in combination with . Starting at block a user accesses the control device at one of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS for instance Remote Station RS to establish a call with desired participants at one or more other Remote Stations for instance Remote Station RS . The user request is sent from the control device to the MSC . The MSC is always connected to the Hub Station H for instance using a TDM and or TDMA connection. The MSC provides connectivity between the control device and the VMS server at the Hub Station H at all times i.e. including before during and after videoconference calls . The MSC sends a number of control and or communication signals from the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSto the Hub Station H via the TDMA channel including frequency allocation requests call initiation termination requests call quality follow up and all monitor and control signals transmitted and received between the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSand the Hub Station H. The TDM channel which can also be a dedicated time shared multicast channel can be utilized to receive a signal from the Hub station H in response to the various control or communication signals.

Thus in accordance with the exemplary embodiment the MSC receives the frequency allocation request from the control device via the switch requesting that first Remote Station RSbe connected to the second Remote Station RS. The MSC forwards the frequency allocation request signal to the VMS server over the TDMA channel via the remote antenna the satellite the hub antenna and the router . The VMS server pulls data from the frequency manager to determine which ones of the return channels are available and assigns an available return channel for instance return channel to the requesting Remote Station RSon demand step . The VMS notifies the Remote Station RSvia the TDM channel of the designated return channel and the modulator can be configured to operate on the assigned return channel . The return channel is created on demand for the requesting Remote Station RSby dynamically linking the modulator with the assigned return channel channel in our example .

The VMS server performs the frequency assignment to adapt the bandwidth of the satellite on demand. The VMS detects when a conference call is being initiated and obtains the desired amount of bandwidth. The satellite is associated with a pool of frequencies that are used on demand such as the frequency associated with each of the return channels . The frequency manager includes information as to which frequencies are available for use and the VMS connects the call over one of the available frequencies for use as the uplink channel for the signal being sent from the requesting Remote Station RS.

Turning to step the return channel parameters have been predetermined by the VMS in conjunction with the information stored in the frequency database . Each remote satellite modem of any participants using the Single Channel Per Carrier SCPC return channel will be configured accordingly. The VMS configures the link and verifies the performance and quality of the communication and update that information to the statistics monitoring module and then starts the HD videoconference call between the participating Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS. For instance the VMS can change the state of the satellite modems turn on off the modems pair the remote modem to one satellite modem available at the return channels configure the SCPC the modems on the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSand place the videoconference call during the videoconference call session.

At this point in our example a dedicated videoconference connection has been established between the requesting Remote Station RSand the Hub Station H on the first return channel step . The VMS also notes the parameters of the videoconference call including the requesting remote station and all of the participating remote stations designated by the requesting remote station. The VCE generates an audio video signal captured by the video camera at the requesting Remote Station RS. The VCE forwards the audio video signal to the modulator via the switch on the first return channel frequency. The video signal modulator modulates and conditions the signal and transmits the modulated audio video signal to the Hub Station H via the remote antenna the satellite and the hub antenna . This is shown in as the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSsending uplink signals R R. . . R respectively.

The Hub Station H receives the modulated audio video signal Rfrom the Remote Station RSover the designated dedicated return channel the first return channel in our example . The return channel passes the received audio video signal Rto the router . If there are more than two participating Remote Stations the router passes those signals to the MCU to combine the received signal Rfrom the first Remote Station RSwith all of the received video audio signals R. . . Rreceived from the other Remote Stations RS. . . RSover the other return channels M. This forms a combined multicast videoconference signal A R R. . . Rof the videoconference signals received from all of the active Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS. The MCU also associates the unique address of all of the participating remote stations including the requesting station with the composite videoconference signal which it had stored in memory when the requesting station initially requested to form the call.

This provides a continuous presence of the combined videoconference signal at the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS which allows the video composing of multiple unicast video frames into one individual multicast showing one stream of video 10 adp or 720 p to feed a single screen. The MCU configures the continuous presence display for the videoconference calls. The feature can be used for example when more than 2 users are simultaneously interacting between each other within multiple Remote Station locations. When only two Remote Stations are communicating each station displays the video signal from the other station and can also optionally display the self view. The MCU recognizes when more than two Remote Stations are in a call and determines how to arrange the video signals from each Remote Station in the composite multicast signal A for presentation on the VCE display . For example if the first Remote Station Rrequests to communicate with the second third and fourth Remote Stations R R R the MCU may configure the screen to be divided into four sections with Rdisplayed in the top left Rdisplayed in the top right Rin the bottom left and Rin the bottom right.

Once the MCU forms the composite signal A it routes that signal to one or more of the outbound multicast channels . The VMS determines which one or more of the outbound channels will transmit the multicast signal A. More than one outbound channel may be needed for instance based on the geographical location of Remote Stations participating in the videoconference call. As shown in the multicast channels then multicasts the combined signal A to all of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSvia the hub antenna the satellite and the remote antenna . The composite multicast signal A is received at the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSand processed by the demodulator . The demodulator demodulates and conditions the received composite multicast signal. The demodulated signal is then passed from the switch to the VCE where it is displayed on the display monitor .

Accordingly all of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSreceive the combined multicast signal which includes the modulated audio video signal generated by each of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS and all of the unique addresses for the remote stations that are authorized to participate in the call. For instance the first Remote Station RSreceives the audio video signal generated by the first Remote Station RS as well as the audio video signal generated by the second Remote Station RSand the audio video signal generated by the NRemote Station RS. In essence the system is taking the unicast videoconference signal generated by the Remote Stations RSand multicasting that signal to all of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSfor display. Thus the system converts a unicast feed system to a multicast system to provide a continuous presence at each of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS.

Each composite videoconference signal is associated with a unique address for each one or more of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSthat were designated by the remote device to participate in the videoconference call. When the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSreceive the composite signal on the multicast outbound channel it will process those signals which are associated with its unique address and discard all other signals. The control device can also indicate that a particular videoconference is open to all receivers that wish to view it or to a particular group of users. In that case those videoconference signals can be presented to the receiving Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS and the remote device for those receiving stations can select whether or not to display a particular videoconference feed.

The individual signals are separated out by the router and displayed in separate windows on the display or on separate display devices. For instance the video audio signal from the first Remote Station RSis shown in a first display area the video audio signal RSfrom second Remote Station RSis shown in a second display area and so forth. Or certain videoconference feeds need not be displayed. For instance the signal from the first Remote Station RSneed not be displayed at the VCE of the first Remote Station RS. This eliminates the self view at each site which eliminates any perceived delay between the self view and audio and the composite images of the other participants during a continuous presence call. This elimination can be done for instance at the local VCE or by repackaging the multicast stream at each switch router so that the VCE at Remote Station RSonly gets the videoconference signals captured at Remote Stations RS. . . RS Remote Station RSonly gets the videoconference signals captured at Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS and so forth. The control device can be utilized to designate how the various videoconference signals are displayed at the VCE .

At the end of the videoconference the user operates the control device to terminate the call. That command signal is transmitted through the switch to the MSC channel module the remote antenna the satellite and the hub antenna to the VMS server . The frequency manager module of the VMS server de allocates the SCPC return channel step . Those return channels then become available for use by other videoconferences initiated by other Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS.

It should be noted that not all of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RShave to capture and or transmit a videoconference signal. Instead one or more of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RScan receive multicast signals for display only where for instance a video signal is intended to be viewed at stations which are only interested in receiving a signal and not transmitting a video audio signal. Thus if a political figure is addressing many recipients not all of those recipient Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSneed to be able to transmit a video audio signal.

The entire communication from a transmitting Remote Station RSto all of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSoccurs in real time within a fraction of a second. The capacity depends on the quality of the video such as 384 Kbs to 1.5 Mbs for high definition and up to 25 Mbs for continuous telepresence. The bandwidth required to establish connection between two of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSdepends on the CODECs at the VCEs and the size of the display monitors where the images are displayed.

The Administrator manager is a web based portal with the following sections Users Modem Statistics Billing and Scheduling. An administrator can use the Administrator manager to Add Modify Delete the Remote Station users and edit the information of each of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS. Each of the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RScan have predefined the values to automatically configure the remote modem specifically the modulator when the user wants to start the communication. The administrator can manage the modem pool adding deleting and modifying the stacks of modems defining by the control device application set the parameters of the modems and supervise the activity. The administrator can view the statistics and frequency allocations from modules in real time to supervise the traffic and the capacity consumptions Time average calls average concurrent calls average non concurrent calls etc.

The Administrator module has a billing platform embedded to take reports from Call Details Records CDR and statistics of the system usage for each user. The administrator can establish a videoconference session from the control device using the scheduling system and assist the users in arranging the videoconference. The scheduling system begins commissioning the modems and places the videoconference call automatically at the time setting in the database. The scheduling can begin the videoconferences ad hoc or at a scheduled time.

The remote device provides an external administrator interface for input of the service parameters monitoring of the current service status and logging reporting of the service history for later billing to the customers. Additionally an interface is based on a WEB site. Via the WEB access the Administrator operator of the service can enter change all required service parameters.

The administrator can also determine if a particular remote station is registered or unregistered with the system and whether it is communicating with the remote Satellite modem and can view satellite communication statistics in real time for each remote satellite modem. When the communication ends the status can be changed proactively and notification from the MCU or the remote control device to the administrator module . The administrator can also view statistics on call duration frequency assigned jitter delay packet loss etc. and check the usage of the satellite modem availability to determine the utilization and activate or deactivate the channels .

The invention saves bandwidth on the uplink channel as well as on the downlink channel. On the uplink side of the communication each station only needs to send a signal to the satellite not to the other stations. For instance in a network of four Remote Stations RS RS RS RS only four return channels are needed for each station to transmit its uplink signal to the satellite . The satellite then transmits each of those uplink signals to each station on one or more of the downlink multicast channel . Thus whereas a unicast system would require six transmit channels and six receive channels the present invention only requires four uplink channels and one downlink channel. In addition that single downlink channel can be received by any or all of the Remote Stations. In our example that one downlink channel can be received by one or more of the four RS RS RS RS as well as any additional number of receiving Remote Stations RS. . . RS. And it can also be received by an additional hundred or thousand stations or more which are only capable of receiving and displaying the audio video signal. Accordingly the Remote Stations RS. . . RSpreferably do not communicate with each other directly but only via the satellite .

The invention also saves bandwidth on the downlink channel since only a single frequency is needed for the downlink channel. The uplink frequencies are aggregated and sent on the single downlink frequency. Any number of stations can receive the downlink signal without having to increase the bandwidth to transmit to those stations.

The system preferably includes a plurality of Remote Station RS RS. . . RSnetworked to each other. The Remote Stations and the Hub station can each have a memory processing capacity a display device and or an input device. The Remote Stations and Hub Station can be implemented by a processor or a server. In particular the VMS Server MCU MSC control modulator demodulator and control interface can be implemented by one or more processors or servers running software and having an input device and or memory such as RAM or a hard drive which carry out the functions of the Hub Station H and the Remote Stations RS RS. . . RS. The operations of the system are all performed automatically in real time without manual interaction. It will be apparent however that more than one Hub station can be provided.

The Remote and Hub Stations each perform various functions and operations in accordance with the invention. The Remote and Hub Stations can be for instance a personal computer PC server or mainframe computer. All or parts of the system and processes can be stored on or read from computer readable media such as a hard drive disks CD ROM DVD read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM . The system can include computer readable medium having stored thereon machine executable instructions for performing the processes described.

The Hub Station H and Remote Stations RS RS. . . RSare shown for illustrative purposes only without intending to limit the preferred embodiment. One skilled in the art will recognize that any suitable station can be utilized and they need not be hub and remote stations. In addition the term video videoconference and audio video signal is meant here to include both video and or audio data. The invention has been shown and described for use with videoconferencing. However other forms of data can also be transmitted such as a PowerPoint document either with or instead of the video audio signals which can be simultaneously displayed. And while the bandwidth allocation on demand is used to set up video calls the system can also be utilized for video surveillance data on demand or other data.

It is also noted that the MCU and the VMS server are shown as separate elements. It should be apparent that those can be combined into a single device which implements the functions of both of those devices.

The foregoing description and drawings should be considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. The invention may be configured in a variety of manners and is not intended to be limited by the preferred embodiment. Numerous applications of the invention will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Therefore it is not desired to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed or the exact construction and operation shown and described. Rather all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

