---

title: System and apparatus for the remote analysis of chemical compound microarrays
abstract: A remote microarray analysis system, method and apparatus for use in the remote analysis of a chemical compound microarray supported on a substrate is disclosed. Pixel image data is received from a remote location including image data that depicts (a) a calibration scale associated with the substrate and (b) the microarray. A transformation action of said pixel data corresponding to the calibration scale is determined and the received image data corresponding to at least the microarray is adjusted by applying the transformation action. The adjusted image of the microarray is compared with a database of stored microarray pixel data to extract information from said image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873815&OS=08873815&RS=08873815
owner: Dacadoo AG
number: 08873815
owner_city: Zurich
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20120208
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 440 748 filed Feb. 8 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to microarray image detection and the remote analysis of the results as well as systems and methods in support of calibratable data capture image processing and data analysis.

Screening for small molecules based on binding is of critical importance to many fields of modern medicine. Through the use of microarrays it is possible to identify for example small molecules that are indicative of disease or illness. Currently small molecule arrays SMA which is a maturing technology are capable of hosting numerous reactants proteins and DNA samples.

High density microarrays are being used in a variety of medical and pharmaceutics practices to assist in identifying novel compounds or illness vectors. Currently microarrays are being employed in fields such as clinical diagnostics toxicology genomics drug discovery environmental monitoring genotyping and many other fields. A microarray is an orderly arrangement of samples containing a reactant. It provides a medium for matching known and unknown samples based on biochemical interactions and automating the process of identifying the unknowns. Microarrays available include oligonucleotide DNA microarrays see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 291 170 5 807 522 inventors Shalon and Brown U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 110 426 5 716 785 and 5 891 636 inventors Eberwine et al . Reviewing the outcome of microarray experiments can entail viewing the arrays under UV ultraviolet light as well as matching dispersion blots and patterns to know reference images. Machine and optical scanners have been developed to look at DNA chips and other expensive laboratory equipment. They include the cluster analysis of fluorescent images and other multiple pass image hybridization and compositing. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 031 844 U.S. Patent Application Pub. 2004 0240718 and U.S. Patent Pub. 2005 0239114. 

Compound Arrays or chemical compound microarrays CMA are microarrays that can provide chemical compounds with varying molecular weights immobilized on a medium. CMAs containing numerous unique chemical compounds attached to a biologically inert supporting surface provide for the identification of agents that modulate biological processes. For example CMAs can be used to actively study the binding of proteins and enzymes or gene transcription. Proteins generally have binding sites for small molecules for important biological reasons. These molecules may act as substrates inhibitors activators or even transcriptional regulators of the protein interacting through one or more independent binding sites on the polypeptide.

CMAs are printed or deposited as in a sequence of reservoirs for chemical compounds a probe . These compounds are designed to react or bind with biological agents reactant . For example it is envisioned that CMAs could be probed so as to indicate the presence of specific protease genes and transcription enzymes that are indicative of a disease such as HIV. Thus CMAs can be probed with an oligonucleotide probe and designed to emit phosphoresce when the reactants corresponding to reverse transcriptase and protease of polymorphic HIV 1 are found. Since these results are quickly obtainable it is desirable to distribute more CMAs to geographical regions in need of additional medical testing apparatus.

The complexity of the hardware and analysis of the CMAs is a current barrier to the wide spread adoption of the technology in rural areas. Currently on site microarray analysis is difficult and expensive to undertake in areas lacking adequate and consistent access to electricity and other laboratory necessities. Furthermore the nature of low medical service areas means that large and complex analysis apparatus are subject to extreme weather conditions and adverse treatment.

In accordance with a broad aspect of the invention the present invention provides for a system and apparatus for the remote analysis of chemical compound microarrays. In more particular aspects the present invention provides remote computer mediated analysis of an image of a chemical compound microarray via remote computer servers of the type that have at least one processor memory and code that configures the processor to perform functions as described herein. In part the present invention enables a medical profession clinician aid worker or other member of the community to provide chemical compound microarrays to ill individuals and receive analysis of the present health state. Herein the term patient is used to represent the subject of the microarray analysis. However the claimed invention envisions that a user may use the remote analysis to gain information on their own medical state without the necessity of scheduling an appointment with a medical professional. Therefore it should be understood that a user and a patient can be the same individual. It is further conceived that the present invention can be used in any location with access to a network by untrained personal so as to test others or themselves for medical conditions. The present invention also enables in part the individual to access information regarding current health states via any device capable of connecting via a network to a remote database. A system and method according to the invention can be configured to enable the individual to test biological materials of a patient on a chemical compound microarray and based on the capture of an image taken of the array and a remote analysis system discover any pressing health concerns or illness levels. In particular the images can be taken by any sort of imaging still or video camera and uploaded via a wireless internet or cell phone connection. Remote diagnostic systems analyze the image and extract diagnostic image. Completed diagnostics are then returned to the patient or health care worker for consultation or discussion of treatment options.

Embodiments of the present invention seek to provide a system that simplifies the CMA process of obtaining a biological sample while at the same time allows for increased portability of the analysis mechanisms. Preferred embodiments of the present invention seek to provide a system designed to not only capture the data but which can record optical data captured as an image from a CMA in the field. This data is then preferably transferred to a remote analysis location wherein the image is processed using the results from reactions observed in the image and corrected for errors. Embodiments of the present invention further seek to provide a remote analysis system that can process images from any image source and can optionally calibrate the image so as to allow the proper analysis of the image.

The analysis functions are preferably hosted on line and allow users to access them remotely without the need to download or install any software. The advantages of this system are readily apparent. The present invention is adapted to enable a user medical personnel to access the diagnostic functions by sending an image to the remote server via an e mail web portal or mms text message. Through the remote system medical data can be stored and comparisons between previous tests and reading can be made. The medical personnel can use the remote analysis to obtain more technical information regarding potential co morbidity complications nutritional information and general health guidelines depending on the test results.

The network based remote analysis allows for a wide variety of personal devices portable computer desktop PDA smart phone camera phone web camera and so on to access and receive the system free of quality issues resulting between different make models and settings of various camera containing devices. Furthermore remote access provides for less resource draw on a device and allows simpler communication devices such as simple picture phones to be used to record the image and receive the analysis. It is envisioned that both domestic users and foreign aid or medical workers could employ the remote analysis herein described. It is further envisioned that the present invention provides a lower cost solution to standard paper indicator tests currently on the market.

In an illustrative embodiment of the invention medical personnel can provide a microarray that supports several compounds that when exposed to a sample such as a biological agent containing specific reactants e.g. protease enzymes gram positive polysaccharides retinol presence a chemical sample having a specific composition or concentration or some other sample such as a geological sample having presence of some chemical mineral etc induce a change of color or change of color properties of the compound. As such a microarray can be printed on a substrate or embedded in a matrix or gel such that voids or spots are introduced to immobilize chemical compounds probes . These spots are enriched with a particular probe that will bind to a selected protein or macromolecule or other chemical RNA DNA amino acid . In this manner high density CMAs offer the possibility of probing and reacting with several molecules in a small area The CMAs can offer a repeating pattern of probes across the surface of a substrate so as to allow a color changing spots to be easily identified for microarray specific element detection. The microarray also includes or has an associated calibration scale for example if not printed on or affixed to the substrate or otherwise integrated into the substrate the calibration scale may be included in the packaging or may even be part of the packaging . Reference data on the calibration scale is preferably stored such that when an image is received including at least a portion of the calibration scale the reference data on the calibration scale can be accessed and compared with the received image of the calibration scale. In dependence on the comparison lighting and other environmental influences on the received image can be filtered or otherwise removed or reduced by image processing techniques. Preferably the calibration scale is a color scale having a plurality of discrete elements or a continuous element changing through a range. The range may be a color spectrum or a subset of a color spectrum. In one embodiment the range may be selected in dependence on the color change exhibited by the probes when exposed to samples. For example if the probe changed color from red to blue then the calibration scale may also be shade or red and blue. Alternatively the calibration scale may be independent of the color changes and or may be selected on the expected environment of use. In selected embodiments a plurality of calibration scales may be included on a microarray that are selected for particular environments or to accommodate differences in image acquisition devices.

In use the microarray is exposed to a sample. After waiting for a sufficient period of time the user patient medical personnel records an image of the exposed microarray ensuring to also record the integral color calibration scale. A variety of image acquisition devices which can be for example a CCD charge coupled device are used for detecting binding patterns. The medical personnel can then send this image to the remote analysis application via e mail text message file transfer or other electronic data transfer. The data analysis application is configured to execute within a processor so as to inspect the image and locate identify calibration markers that are associated with the substrate that supports the microarray s . The pixels representing the calibration markers are compared to a set of reference pixels in a database or in a memory store that correspond to those specific markers. The image analysis application alters the image or at least the data values or at least a subset of the pixels so as to calibrate the pixels of the image to correlate to the properties of the reference pixels. The image application is further configured to inspect analyze the pixels in the image and identify those colors within a gradient range of the calibrated pixels. The image application then compares the pixel values with values stored within the database or the memory store. The stored values can correspond to a particular illness while the intensity of the colors of the image can correspond to the severity of the infection deficiency or status.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a computer implemented method for the remote analysis of a chemical compound microarray supported on a substrate the remote analysis executed as an application residing on a computing device the computing device having a processor and a storage medium and the remote analysis application having one or more software modules stored on the storage medium and executed in the processor the method comprising 

receiving pixel image data from a remote location including image data that depicts a a calibration scale associated with the substrate and b the microarray 

determining a transformation action of said pixel data corresponding to the calibration scale using a calibration module 

adjusting the received image data corresponding to at least the microarray by applying the transformation action using an adjustment module 

comparing the adjusted image of the microarray with a database of stored microarray pixel data to extract information from said image using an analysis module 

The calibration scale may comprise a color scale at least a portion of the microarray may be arranged to exhibit a color change upon being exposed to a sample having predetermined properties the method further comprising storing reference data on the calibration scale the step of determining the transformation action including determining a transformation action to transform at least a subset of the image data depicting the calibration scale to values corresponding to a corresponding subset of the reference data.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a remote microarray analysis system configured to remotely analyze a chemical compound microarray supported on a substrate comprising 

a data communication module configured to receive pixel image data from a remote location including image data that depicts a a calibration scale associated with the substrate and b the microarray 

a calibration module configured to determine a transformation action of said pixel data corresponding to the calibration scale using a calibration module 

an adjustment module configured to adjust the received image data corresponding to at least the microarray by applying the transformation action using an adjustment module 

an analysis module configured to compare the adjusted image of the microarray with a database of stored microarray pixel data to extract information from said image using an analysis module 

The calibration scale may comprise a color scale and at least a portion of the microarray may be arranged to exhibit a color change upon being exposed to a sample having predetermined properties the system further comprising a memory encoding data on the calibration scale wherein the calibration module is configured to determine the transformation action by accessing the reference data in the memory and determining a transformation action to transform at least a subset of the image data depicting the calibration scale to values corresponding to a corresponding subset of the reference data.

The calibration module may be configured to operate as a discrete series of sub modules configured to check at least a portion of the pixel data corresponding to the calibration scale against the set of reference pixels that comprises one or more parameters selected from the group consisting essentially of luminosity a shadow a highlight and a color temperature and determining the transformation action.

The adjustment module may be configured to operate as a discrete series of sub modules comprising adjusting the pixel value levels of one or more parameters selected from the group consisting essentially of a luminosity a shadow a highlight and a color temperature.

The adjustment module may further comprise an image correction module configured to operate as a series of discrete sub modules for identifying all pixels that share one or more parameters selected from the group consisting essentially of a luminosity a shadow a highlight and a color temperature and adjusting said pixels in a similar manner.

The analysis module may be configured to operate as a series of discrete sub modules configured to check at least a portion of the pixel data corresponding to the image and comparing said pixels to a database of stored parameters where stored parameters correspond to a specific biological analysis.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided an apparatus for remotely analyzing a plurality of microarray images the apparatus comprising 

an image recording device configured to record an image of the chemical compound microarray and the calibration scale after usage of the microarray 

a network connected image analysis device configured to receive the image and analyze the data contained therein.

The color change of the target compound may be within a gradient spectrum of a reference color present on the calibration scale.

The color of the target compound relative to the gradient may be correlated to the amount of said analyte.

While it is envisioned that the present invention will be of great assistance to identifying illness in places located far from advanced medical facilities those skilled in the art would recognize that nothing in the foregoing embodiments prevents those with access to advance facilities from using the present invention to supplement current diagnostic testing regimes.

These and other aspects features and advantages of the invention can be appreciated from the accompanying description of certain embodiments of the invention and the associated drawing figures.

By way of example only and for the purpose of overview and introduction embodiments of the present invention are described below which concern a system and apparatus for the remote analysis of microarrays. The system is directed to assisting medical professionals to obtain rapid analysis of biological and or chemical specimens and to rapidly diagnose medical conditions in remote locations. The system is further directed to a remote analyses application that corrects for differences in equipment and environmental conditions. Through the remote analysis system medical professionals are able to receive information regarding the heath status of a patient and properly proscribe treatment based on a number of biological factors and tests reviewed while not having physical access to sophisticated medical and array diagnostic tools.

As seen in the remote microarray analysis system comprises a system . The system uses a bidirectional data communications network such as the internet to establish a communication link that connects a remote device to a computing device . The computing device is configured to connect to the remote device and receive image data corresponding to a particular chemical microarray. The computing device can utilize commonly used network programming platforms and databases . The computing device can connect to networks and databases using commonly understood programming interfaces and interface modules e.g. Media Server Pro Java Mysql Apache Ruby on Rails and other similar application programming interfaces and database management solutions. It will be appreciated that the remote microarray analysis system of preferred embodiments of the present invention offers broad adaptability to user configurations multiple user inputs and hardware configurations.

The remote microarray analysis system may be accessed for example by way of a web portal e mail or text message. The computing device is capable of and configured to receive industry standard telecommunications for data transfer. Furthermore the computing system is capable of parsing telephone e mail and other header data so as to enable a return message to be sent to a user using conventional protocols as is commonly known e.g. using the Automatic Number Identification ANI in a telephone call set up or sender address information in an email . The remote microarray can be connected to in a conventional manner such as by using a web browser program such as Mozilla s Firefox. The web portal offers the ability to transmit data from non networked sources such as digital cameras web camera and digital tape feed.

The remote microarray analysis system provides the user with access to diagnostic functions associated with analyzing a particular microarray. This enables a user to identify specific medical issues relating to health and general well being of a subject without the need to transport perishable biological samples to a stationary analysis machine The system accomplishes this by executing a series of software modules that cooperate to analyze the image data received remotely.

More specifically as shown in a set of modules cooperate with one another to provide a diagnosis of various medical conditions determined by the microarray. Thus in one exemplary embodiment there is a calibration module an adjustment module a correction module which as will be appreciated from the description below can be incorporated as part of the functionality of the adjustment module and an analysis module . Each of these modules can comprise hardware firmware code executing in a processor or some combination thereof that configures a machine such as the computing device to implement the functionality described herein. The functionality of these modules can be combined or further separated as understood by persons of ordinary skill in the art in analogous implementations of embodiments of the invention.

With further reference to the calibration module includes instructions that when executed cause reviewing of the received image data and locating calibration pixel markers located in or proximate to the image. For instance the calibration pixel markers can be supported on the same substrate as the microarray and can be viewable from the same side of the support as the microarray. The calibration module compares these calibration pixels to reference pixels stored in the database or in a memory store more generally the database and the memory store are collectively referred to as the database that correspond to the particular make and model of the microarray in question. The calibration module then identifies the adjustments or transformations needed to the change the parameters of the calibration pixels in view of the appropriate set of reference pixels for that CMA. These functions can be implemented as discrete sub modules providing the ability to reference by way of example and not limitation the color temperature luminosity highlight hues and other parameters of one or more of the calibration pixels and compare those parameters to a reference pixel. As one example as would be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art the pixels can be mapped as an array of values and then a transformation matrix can be determined as a matrix of values that when multiplied by calibration pixel markers within the image data result in a result matrix of values that correspond to the values of the reference pixels for that CMA.

The adjustment module includes instructions for interpreting the difference between the parameter values of the calibration pixels and the reference pixels. The adjustment module then adjusts or transforms the parameters of the calibration pixels so that they equal or closely approximate the parameters of the reference pixels.

The adjustment function of the adjustment module can be implemented as discrete sub modules to provide functions such as by way of example and not limitation filtering color correction hue correction saturation level alteration and chromatic aberration alterations. The adjustment module can alter all the calibration pixels in relation to the reference pixels. Conversely the adjustment module can alter specific pixels in relation to the reference pixel.

The correction module includes instructions for correcting the remaining pixels of the image so as to calibrate the total image for analysis. The correction module receives data corresponding to the parameter levels necessary to alter each pixel so as to calibrate the entire image or a selected portion of the image. The correction module can be implemented as discrete sub modules configured to provide the specific parameters necessary to correct again by way of example and not limitation the color tones hue and saturation of the entire image relative to the reference pixels.

In an alternative arrangement the functions of the correction module are incorporated into the adjustment module such that the pixels representing the microarray are adjusted or transformed contemporaneously with the calibration pixels. In a further arrangement the correction module when incorporated into the adjustment module only adjusts or alters those pixels relating to the microarray and not the image calibration pixels.

Analysis module includes instructions for analyzing the image of the microarray and identifying the color and intensity of pixels throughout the image of the microarray. The analysis module compares each colored pixel and its intensity against data stored in the database. The data may be in the form of a look up table of colors. The analysis module correlates the color and intensity for a specific microarray reaction site and determines if a given medical condition is present in the sample in dependence on associations in the database or in some other system between the color and or intensity and prior results from using the respective probe for the condition. A listing of all the present medical conditions and the severity of each for a given microarray is stored for transmission. The analysis module can be implemented as discrete sub modules configured to provide the specific analysis functions for interpreting the color and intensity of a given reaction site looking up in a data base the specific ailment or condition correlated to that site comprising a list of aliments and their severity storing the list for transmission to a hand held device.

As shown in a personal device such as a portable computer desktop PDA smart phone camera phone web camera and so on is configured for employment of at least selected steps of the method as described above. The device includes a user interface a processor a memory and a camera described below . Device may comprise one or more of any number of commercial devices or systems that are capable of capturing optical data through a lens and transmitting an image file that includes the captured data. As one non limiting example a smartphone that executes the Android operating system by Google Inc and which has a camera for capturing images is a suitable device . Although the device is represented herein as a single device it is not limited to such but instead can comprise a camera coupled to another system that enables image transfer over a network to the computing device of .

Memory is a memory for storing data and instructions suitable for controlling the operation of processor . An implementation of memory would include a random access memory RAM a hard drive and a read only memory ROM . One of the components stored in memory is a program .

Program includes instructions for controlling processor to execute method . Program may be implemented as a single module or as a plurality of modules that operate in cooperation with one another. Program is contemplated as representing a software embodiment of the modules that implement the functionality and methodology described herein.

User interface includes an input device such as a keyboard touch screen tablet or speech recognition subsystem for enabling a user to communicate information and command selections to processor . User interface also includes an output device such as a display or a printer. In the case of a touch screen the input and output functions are provided by the same structure. A cursor control such as directional keys a mouse track ball or joy stick can be employed to enable the user to manipulate a cursor on the display for communicating additional information and command selections to processor in embodiments in which the display is not a touch screen.

While program is indicated as already loaded into memory it may be configured on a storage media for subsequent loading into memory . Storage media can be any conventional storage media such as a magnetic tape an optical storage media a compact disc or a floppy disc. Alternatively storage media can be a random access memory or other type of electronic storage located on a remote storage system.

Referring now to the diagram of a microarray is depicted showing the various elements thereof that may be used in the operation of the claimed system and apparatus 

The microarray is divided into two discrete sections. The main section is itself divided into several smaller sections each containing an array of reaction sites containing probe chemical compounds . The microarray is designed to provide an array of reaction sites wherein each of a plurality of probe sites is dedicated to that is supports one probe compound. In this way all the probe compounds of a given array are ensured to be exposed to a biological and or chemical sample. The ancillary section is a calibration scale . The calibration scale is preferably integral to the micro array and is designed to indicate via a clearly visible marker its orientation. The calibration scale also can include a series of colored strips corresponding to the color gradients of all of the included reactant colors possible for a given microarray. In this way in one embodiment a spectrum from white to maximum intensity of each specific reactant color is provided on the substrate or matrix of the microarray. In an alternative embodiment the calibration scale has a selected image or discrete color markers that is are provided to the calibration module described above .

In a preferred embodiment a patient interacts with the microarray by contacting one of the two broad surfaces presented. In a top surface is illustrated. A camera is used to capture an image of the top surface of the microarray as well as the calibration scale which is proximate to the reaction sites . In certain embodiments the patient contacts the top surface A and the camera instead captures an image from an opposite rear surface B. The rear surface B can present a reaction between the biological sample and the probe chemical compounds at the respective reaction sites in proximity to a calibration scale included on the rear surface. When a patient puts a biological or chemical sample on the probe e.g. blood saliva urine or some other sample as may be appropriate for a given probe the reactant color change is such that a color contrast arises that can be captured by the camera when held a short distance away from the surface of the array. In an alternative arrangement a calibration scale that is correlated closely with the reference data in the database can be provided separate from the microarray and interposed into the camera s field of view when an image is captured from the microarray but this is less preferred as it can result in contamination of one patient s sample when brought into contact with that patient s sample after contacting another patient s sample.

In still another embodiment as depicted in the area designated B can present a unique array model and make marker that is unique to that particular array so as to identify a patient or test conducted. This can be represented as a serial number bar code q code or other pictographic or alphanumeric unique identifier. As such The image need not be captured in a specific orientation or positioning. The device is configured to differentiate between the microarray and the integral calibration portions of the substrate such that various imaging orientations are possible.

It is envisioned that the microarray can be printed on a substrate such as paper plastic thin metallic films or composite materials. It is envisioned that the probe molecules could be doped sprayed dry immobilized or otherwise secured to a piece of testing paper such as litmus paper. Furthermore it is envisioned that the printing process or doping process that forms the array is capable of depositing several different probe chemicals within the various probe spots within a single array. Additionally it is envisioned that multiple arrays can be printed on a single paper or wafer substrate.

In one embodiment the microarray employs reactants within the surface of the microarray to bind to particular macromolecules to initiate the color changing function. For example it is envisioned and is no way limiting that the probe for a particular site for a microarray for a biological sample contains soluble glycolic enzymes such as Glutamate dehydrogenase. In this way a binding site between the enzyme and the biological sample can be made to change color upon the binding of the immunoglobulins to the reactant such as a buffer . It is preferable to allow a repeating pattern of binding sites containing a few specific probe compounds. For example a series of antigens and metabolic products that co indicate infection with malaria could be located within a single may. In this way all the probe compounds of a given array could be used to both indicate the strain of a malarial infection by preparing IgG compounds and oxidoreductase compounds so that binding of the antibody or lack thereof to a signal reagent confers information regarding strain of parasite and the level of infection. Additionally multiple disease states can be tested on a microarray. By way of non limiting example the above malarial reagents and antibodies could be included on array while a separate array for HIV screening can be placed on another array e.g. . The biological specimen would be applied in a sequence to the center of each array. Depending on the testing undertaken it might be necessary to obtain a fresh sample for each screening array. The specimen migrates through the array and combines with the signal reagent. A positive reaction results in a visual color indicator on the array HIV antigen has been applied. Some arrays could apply HIV 1 and HIV 2 antigens in different locations and allow differentiation of antibodies to these two viruses. It is envisioned that the reagent chemical compound or signal compound require no additional equipment or refrigeration and test results can be obtained in several minutes or less. It is also envisioned that the arrays can use samples obtained from whole blood serum or plasma and some combination of finger stick blood specimens and other sampling means.

In another embodiment of the present invention it is envisioned that sporting events would employ the present invention for spot checks regarding banned performance enhancing agents and medicines. This could be accomplished by acquiring samples for example urine or saliva from a number of contestants and using the present invention to remotely test those samples for a variety of substances. It is further envisioned that general health states e.g. cholesterol levels blood glucose levels vitamin levels could be obtained by a microarray designed to engage reactants with various indicators of health and wellbeing. For example by way of non limiting examples the present invention could be distributed at health and fitness facilities so that individuals can independently track their metabolic states during the course of a fitness regime.

As seen with respect to a user such as a health care provider can capture an image with an image recording device or camera of the microarray so that both the reaction sites and the calibration scale are within the field of view . The camera to be employed for this purpose should be of sufficient capability as to be able to differentiate between the different reactant sites of the microarray at a distance necessary to record the sites and their corresponding calibration scale and preferably the entire microarray including the calibration scale In use a user secures a biological sample from a patient e.g. a blood sample and applies it to the microarray. The user then captures an image e.g. a photograph of the microarray while capturing the calibration scale in the image being taken. This image is then uploaded to the remote analysis system for analysis. In one arrangement of the apparatus the remote analysis system analyzes the calibration scale included in the transferred image and calibrates the color and tones of the image so that they match a stored reference image using the functionality of the calibration module the adjustment module and the correction module . Using the information regarding the corrected and calibrated image the analysis system can then locate the proper color changed reaction sites that indicate the presence of illness or disease using the functionality of the analysis module . The remote analysis system then compiles a listing of all the medical states indicated by the microarray and transmits the list in a manner designed to ensure receipt be the sender of the image. For example if the image is transmitted to the remote analysis system via e mail that a return e mail is sent to the sending address indicating the medical states diagnosed by the microarray and remote analysis.

In further aspects of the invention the analysis system executing at or as the computing device can utilize additional data such as local geography including GPS data from the device connected to the camera that captured the image to compile medical data useful for statistical analysis. In this regard the initial image transmission can be done using a unique or specific identifier that does not identify to the system any personal data of the patient. Thus for instance the health care provider HCP sending the image file to the system can have an account and each time that a message is sent from that HCP a serial number can be assigned to the communication and combined with that HCP s identification rather than an identification of the patient himself or herself

As seen in a flow chart is provided giving indication of the proposed steps of the claimed invention are illustrated. The depicted flow chart is of one embodiment of the present invention. Those skilled in the art would understand that modifications and alterations to the disclosed plan are readily apparent. It is understood that a medical professional would secure a biological sample from a subject. For example the medical professional could obtain a blood sample tissue sample fluid sample or other biological sample in need of testing. This sample is then applied to the microarray . Once the probe chemicals of the microarray have had sufficient time to react with the biological sample the medical professional or user would then photograph the microarray . The medical professional or user preferably ensures that the image includes both the reaction sites as well as sufficient numbers of the calibration markers. Once the image is taken the medical professional or user can the store the image locally or immediately upload the image to the remote analysis system . The medical professional or user can record and store multiple images relating to several different arrays. If the medical professional or user has a large amount of images then they can be batch uploaded to the remote system for processing. The remote analysis system analyzes the calibration scale and calibrates the color and tones of the image so that they match a reference image stored on the remote analysis system . Using the information regarding the corrected and calibrated image the analysis system can then locate the proper color changed reaction sites that indicate the presence of illness or disease . The remote analysis system then compiles a listing of all the medical states indicated by the microarray and transmits the list in a manner designed to ensure receipt by the sender of the image . For example it is envisioned that if the image is transmitted to the remote analysis system via e mail that a return e mail is sent to the sending address indicating the medical states diagnosed by the microarray and remote analysis.

The remote analysis system may include a camera for use in obtaining reference calibration scale imagery in controlled known conditions prior to sending microarrays out into the field for use. In this manner the degree of accuracy of manufactured printed calibration scales is reduced as reference data can be obtained on a case by case basis.

It should be understood that various combination alternatives and modifications of the present invention could be devised by those skilled in the art. The present invention is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variances that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

