---

title: Method and apparatus for alignment harmonization
abstract: Techniques and architecture are disclosed for performing alignment harmonization of a collection of electro-optical and/or gimbaled componentry that is to operate within a common coordinate frame. In some cases, the techniques and architecture can provide a cost- and time-efficient approach to achieving alignment harmonization that is compatible, for example, with field-test and/or operational environments. In some instances, the techniques and architecture can be used in concert with error calibration techniques to further improve the accuracy of the alignment harmonization. The techniques and architecture can be utilized with a wide range of components (e.g., sensors, armaments, targeting systems, weapons systems, countermeasure systems, navigational systems, surveillance systems, etc.) on a wide variety of platforms. Numerous configurations and variations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08977512&OS=08977512&RS=08977512
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08977512
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 498 199 filed on Jun. 17 2011 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DAAE07 97 C X073 awarded by the United States Army. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to componentry alignment and more particularly to alignment harmonization of electro optical and gimbaled componentry.

Component alignment on a given platform involves a number of non trivial challenges and electro optical and gimbaled componentry have faced particular complications such as those with respect to alignment harmonization.

One example embodiment of the present invention provides an alignment harmonization system including an inertial measurement unit IMU configured to output angular rate data relating to an attitude of a common reference surface of a platform and an attitude of a reference surface of a unit under alignment UUA wherein the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface operate within a common coordinate frame and a processor operatively coupled with the IMU and configured to interpret the angular rate data to determine a difference in attitude between the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface. In some cases the system further includes the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface. In some such embodiments the common reference surface comprises a portion of the platform configured to operatively couple with the IMU. In some other such embodiments the common reference surface comprises a reference plate operatively coupled with the platform and configured to operatively couple with the IMU. In some instances the UUA reference surface comprises a portion of the UUA configured to operatively couple with the IMU. In some other such instances the UUA reference surface comprises a reference plate operatively coupled with the UUA and configured to operatively couple with the IMU. In some cases the IMU is joined with an interface configured to operatively couple with the common reference surface and with the UUA reference surface. In some such cases the common reference surface is configured with an alignment slot and an alignment hole configured to be operatively coupled with the interface and wherein the UUA reference surface is configured with an alignment slot and an alignment hole configured to be operatively coupled with the same interface. In some embodiments the processor is implemented in a laptop a handheld electronic device an on board computer of the platform and or the IMU. In some instances the IMU is calibrated to correct for at least one error associated with the IMU.

Another example embodiment of the present invention provides a method of performing alignment harmonization the method including the steps of operatively coupling an inertial measurement unit IMU with a common reference surface of a platform and beginning collection of a first set of angular rate data uncoupling the IMU from the common reference surface and transitioning the IMU to a reference surface of a unit under alignment UUA and operatively coupling the IMU with the UUA reference surface and stopping collection of the first set of angular rate data. In some cases the method further includes using the first set of angular rate data to determine a difference in attitude between the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface. In some such instances the method further includes after operatively coupling the IMU with the UUA reference surface and stopping collection of the first set of angular rate data the steps of uncoupling the IMU from the UUA reference surface operatively coupling the IMU with the common reference surface and beginning collection of a second set of angular rate data uncoupling the IMU from the common reference surface and transitioning the IMU to a reference surface of a second UUA and operatively coupling the IMU with the reference surface of the second UUA and stopping collection of the second set of angular rate data. In some such embodiments the method further includes using the second set of angular rate data output by the IMU to determine a difference in attitude between the common reference surface and the reference surface of the second UUA. In some embodiments the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface operate within a common coordinate frame. In some cases the method further includes before operatively coupling the IMU with the common reference surface of the platform the step of calibrating the IMU. In some such instances calibrating the IMU includes the steps of determining a latitude and attitude of the common reference surface of the platform a heading of the common reference surface with respect to true north and gravitational direction operatively coupling the IMU with the common reference surface for a period of time to capture angular rate error data and uncoupling the IMU from the common reference surface rotating the IMU and recoupling the IMU with the common reference surface to capture rate scale factor error data. In some such embodiments the angular rate error data is used to improve alignment harmonization. In some other such embodiments the rate scale factor error data is used to improve alignment harmonization.

Yet another example embodiment of the present invention provides an alignment harmonization device including an inertial measurement unit IMU configured to output angular rate data relating to an attitude of a common reference surface of a platform and an attitude of a reference surface of a unit under alignment UUA wherein the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface operate within a common coordinate frame a processor operatively coupled with the IMU and configured to interpret the angular rate data to determine a difference in attitude between the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface and a power source operatively coupled with the IMU and configured to provide power to the IMU wherein the device is configured to be operatively coupled with the common reference surface and with the UUA reference surface.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been selected principally for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit the scope of the inventive subject matter.

These and other features of the present embodiments will be understood better by reading the following detailed description taken together with the figures herein described. The accompanying drawings are not intended to be drawn to scale. In the drawings each identical or nearly identical component that is illustrated in various figures is represented by a like numeral. For purposes of clarity not every component may be labeled in every drawing.

Techniques and architecture are disclosed for performing alignment harmonization of a collection of electro optical and or gimbaled componentry that is to operate within a common coordinate frame. In some cases the techniques and architecture can provide a cost and time efficient approach to achieving alignment harmonization that is compatible for example with field test and or operational environments. In some instances the techniques and architecture can be used in concert with error calibration techniques to further improve the accuracy of the alignment harmonization. The techniques and architecture can be utilized with a wide range of components e.g. sensors armaments targeting systems weapons systems countermeasure systems navigational systems surveillance systems etc. on a wide variety of platforms. Numerous configurations and variations will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously indicated there are a number of non trivial issues that can complicate component alignment. For instance one non trivial issue pertains to the fact that when a collection of separate electro optical and gimbaled functional components e.g. such as may be implemented in sensors countermeasures navigation weapons systems and armaments etc. are to operate or otherwise be used in concert within a common coordinate frame it is necessary to determine the alignments of their angular attitudes relative to a common reference. The relative alignment of each component is determined during a process known as alignment harmonization.

Typical approaches involve making far field measurements using a theodolite as the common reference or making near field measurements requiring the complicated use of protractors and lines drawn on the ground. However these approaches are very time consuming e.g. harmonization can take several days to be properly completed using this approach and typically require a level surface platform on which to perform the alignment harmonization. Other example approaches involve complex and prohibitively expensive equipment. In addition the aforementioned techniques approaches are notably error prone. Furthermore such extended alignment harmonization process times and expensive equipment are both highly undesirable for example for field test and or operational contexts. Other flaws and disadvantages inherent to existing approaches techniques will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Therefore there is need for a way to directly and swiftly perform alignment harmonization for a given collection of electro optical and or gimbaled components on a given platform while being compatible with field test and or operational environments e.g. without requiring a level platform at relatively low cost in a time efficient manner etc. .

Thus and in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention techniques and architecture are disclosed for a local approach to directly measuring component alignment for achieving alignment harmonization. The disclosed techniques and architecture can be utilized to harmonize the alignment of a collection of electro optical and or gimbaled components e.g. such as may be implemented in sensors armaments targeting systems weapons systems countermeasure systems navigational systems surveillance systems etc. that is to operate within a common coordinate frame. In some cases the techniques and architecture can provide a cost and time efficient approach to achieving alignment harmonization that is compatible for example with field test and or operational environments.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an alignment harmonization system is disclosed. In some such embodiments the alignment harmonization system includes an inertial measurement unit IMU that is operatively coupled with one or more processors. In some instances the alignment harmonization system may include additional componentry e.g. power supply data cable wireless interfacing Bluetooth capability compass g sensor GPS etc. as suitable for a given application. In some cases the alignment harmonization system can be configured as a single integral package device while in some other cases one or more components of the device system may be discrete or otherwise separate.

In accordance with an embodiment the IMU whether discrete or part of an integral package can be passed from a common reference surface of a given platform to a reference surface of a unit under alignment UUA e.g. the unit having the electro optical and or gimbaled components to undergo alignment harmonization . The resultant measured angular rate data output by the IMU then can be provided to the one or more operatively coupled processors which interpret or otherwise analyze e.g. integrate the data to determine the angular attitude differences between the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface thereby permitting alignment harmonization of the UUA component s .

In accordance with an embodiment to help minimize or otherwise reduce cost a low cost IMU may be utilized in the alignment harmonization device system. However as will be appreciated some low cost IMUs generally may have significant sources of error which upon interpretation e.g. integration by an operatively coupled processor normally would detract from overall alignment accuracy. Such errors include but are not limited to 1 3 angular random walk 2 g insensitive drift rate 3 g sensitive drift rate 4 rate scale factor error 5 misalignment error and 6 Earth s rate. Therefore in accordance with an embodiment the disclosed alignment harmonization techniques and architecture can be used in concert with one or more error calibration techniques to minimize or otherwise reduce e.g. such as by calibrating out one or more of such errors to further improve alignment accuracy and thereby improve alignment harmonization. For instance and in accordance with an embodiment the effects of one or more angular rate errors e.g. g insensitive drift rate g sensitive drift rate rate scale factor error and or Earth s rate may be minimized or otherwise reduced by using the techniques architecture described herein.

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure some embodiments of the present invention may realize advantages benefits as compared to the existing alignment harmonization equipment approaches previously discussed. For example some embodiments of the present invention may realize a substantial reduction in 1 the amount of time required to achieve alignment harmonization e.g. less than one hour as compared with existing approaches which may take several days and or 2 the cost of alignment harmonization e.g. given that the disclosed alignment harmonization system can utilize inexpensive componentry . Also some embodiments may realize a substantial improvement in for example 1 alignment harmonization accuracy and dependability e.g. such as by compensating for one or more errors and or 2 ease of implementation in the field e.g. given that the disclosed alignment harmonization system can utilize a minimal number of components . Furthermore and in accordance with an embodiment the disclosed techniques and architecture can allow a user to harmonize the alignment of various components at the site of any UUA without having to activate the UUA and to do so rapidly in any host platform orientation. Still further in accordance with an embodiment the disclosed techniques architecture may allow for a user to perform a quick alignment check to ensure that alignment harmonization still holds true after a given period of time. Other advantages benefits associated with one or more embodiments of the present invention will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure the alignment harmonization techniques and architecture described herein may be utilized in a variety of contexts e.g. experimental research laboratory field test operations deployment combat warzone etc. in accordance with an embodiment. As will further be appreciated in light of this disclosure one or more embodiments of the present invention may be implemented for example with a variety of devices systems and or platforms regardless of environment context air land and or sea vehicles etc. . Other suitable uses of one or more embodiments of the present invention will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a number of factors may be considered in choosing a suitable IMU . For example it may be desirable in accordance with an embodiment to ensure that IMU has a suitable level of accuracy e.g. a sufficiently low initial error and or error which may be substantially calibrated out . As will be appreciated providing such an IMU may assist with reducing minimizing the amount of time required for achieving alignment harmonization. However it may be desirable to provide such an IMU for example without incurring great expense thus reducing minimizing the overall cost of alignment harmonization system . Furthermore performance characteristics such as functional temperature range compatibility with other componentry of alignment harmonization system e.g. processor data output capabilities and input power requirements may be considered in choosing a suitable IMU for a given application. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure and in accordance with an embodiment IMU may be a standard custom or hybrid IMU and in some instances may be configured with one or more mechanical and or solid state e.g. ring laser fiber optic piezoelectric etc. gyroscopic components. Other suitable configurations for IMU will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In some cases it may be desirable to minimize or otherwise reduce the need for field calibration of IMU and thus reduce the process time required to achieve alignment harmonization. Therefore in accordance with an embodiment IMU optionally may be pre calibrated e.g. before receipt from the manufacturer or otherwise before field operational use for example 1 for a wide range of operable temperature conditions and or 2 for one or more of the principal sources of angular rate error discussed above . However the claimed invention is not so limited as an IMU having sufficiently small or otherwise negligible errors may be utilized without such optional pre calibration in accordance with an embodiment. Furthermore as previously noted it may be desirable in some instances to provide these and other considerations without incurring great expense. Other considerations for optional pre calibration of IMU will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In accordance with an embodiment it may be desirable to ensure that IMU is properly oriented and substantially flush for example with a common reference surface of a given platform and or with a reference surface of a given unit under alignment UUA to obtain accurate data. Thus in some embodiments IMU may be implemented with one or more features configured to aid with proper interfacing.

For example is a side perspective view of an IMU operatively coupled with an optional interface configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. IMU may be permanently and or removably joined with interface for example to help ensure accurate and repeatable placement of IMU on a common reference surface and or on a UUA reference surface in accordance with an embodiment. In some cases interface may be configured with a series of alignment pins and e.g. posts tabs protrusions etc. or other suitable feature s configured to engage respectively a corresponding alignment slot and alignment hole discussed below . Interface may comprise any material having sufficient rigidity durability and thermal expansion characteristics suitable for a given application. For instance interface may comprise a material such as but not limited to aluminum Al titanium Ti steel etc. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure it may be desirable to ensure that interface provides and retains a flat level surface to minimize or otherwise reduce the possibility of introducing additional errors into the data obtained by IMU .

In some cases it may be desirable to configure alignment slot with at least one dimension that is different from alignment hole . For instance in one specific example embodiment alignment slot and alignment hole can be configured to have different diameters and alignment pins and can be correspondingly configured. As will be appreciated the alignment pin of greater diameter will not readily mate with the alignment feature e.g. alignment slot or alignment hole of lesser diameter and so such an embodiment may assist with ensuring consistent proper orientation of IMU with or without optional interface with a given surface having such alignment features. Also in another specific example embodiment alignment slot can be configured with a longer length than alignment hole to mitigate or otherwise compensate for the effects if any of thermal expansion on achieving and maintaining operative coupling between IMU with or without optional interface and a given surface having such alignment features.

In accordance with an embodiment it may be desirable to ensure that alignment slot and alignment hole are configured dimensioned to snugly receive alignment pin and respectively without requiring substantial application of force. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure an appropriately snug fit may minimize or otherwise reduce the likelihood of introducing errors resulting from give play in the operative coupling of IMU with a given surface. Other configurations considerations for alignment pins and alignment slot and or alignment hole will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Whether or not a reference plate is utilized alignment pins and of interface may be inserted into alignment slot and alignment hole respectively. Once mated with alignment slot and alignment hole interface may be manually and or mechanically held in place for instance during the collection of data by IMU . Also in accordance with an embodiment it may be desirable to ensure that common reference surface and or UUA reference surface whether provided by a reference plate or otherwise associated with platform UUA is substantially flat. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure a suitably flat surface may minimize or otherwise reduce the likelihood of introducing errors resulting from wobble tilting of IMU when operatively coupled with such surface.

Returning to IMU may be operatively coupled with a power supply . In some embodiments power supply may be a discrete unit device operatively coupled with IMU and configured to provide power thereto while in some other embodiments power supply may be integral to IMU . In some specific example cases power supply may comprise one or more electrochemical cells photovoltaic photoelectric cells etc. configured to provide power to IMU . Other suitable configurations for power supply will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As previously noted IMU may be operatively coupled with one or more processors . In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention processor s may be chosen at least in part based on 1 the ability to interpret analyze e.g. integrate the angular rate data provided by IMU and or 2 compatibility with software e.g. commercially available and or custom suitable for implementation with alignment harmonization system . Furthermore it may be desirable to provide processor s for example without incurring great expense thus reducing minimizing the overall cost of alignment harmonization system in accordance with an embodiment. Other suitable configurations for processor s will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In accordance with an embodiment the one or more processors may be implemented for example 1 in a handheld or other portable computing device e.g. PDA like device laptop etc. 2 as part of an on board computer of the host platform and or 3 as an integral component of IMU . Furthermore and in accordance with an embodiment operative coupling between IMU and the one or more processors may be achieved using any number of suitable data interfacing techniques such as but not limited to 1 a wired connection e.g. data cable fiber optic etc. 2 a plug and play connection e.g. USB FireWire etc. and or 3 a wireless connection e.g. RF transmission Bluetooth etc. . Other suitable data interfacing techniques will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure platform can be any system or vehicle air land sea etc. having one or more UUAs implementing for example electro optical and or gimbaled componentry e.g. sensors armaments targeting systems weapons systems countermeasure systems navigational systems surveillance systems etc. that is to operate within a common coordinate frame.

In accordance with an embodiment UUA reference surface can be pre calibrated for example with the boresight of UUA . That is before receipt from the manufacturer or otherwise before field use deployment the alignment of the reference surface of a given UUA e.g. sensor gimbaled componentry etc. with respect to the boresight e.g. optical laser gun etc. of that UUA can be calculated or otherwise determined. Similarly common reference surface can be pre calibrated with respect to platform . In accordance with an embodiment pre calibration of a given reference surface may help to reduce the process time required to achieve alignment harmonization by minimizing or otherwise reducing the need for in the field calibration. Other pre calibration considerations will depend on a given application and will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

In accordance with an embodiment the process time for alignment harmonization via one or more of the disclosed techniques architecture may be substantially less than that required by existing approaches e.g. less than or equal to about 5 less than or equal to about 10 less than or equal to about 15 etc. of the process time of existing approaches . For instance in one specific example embodiment alignment harmonization may be achieved with a process time of less than or equal to about 1 hr. However as will be appreciated in light of this disclosure a longer process time may result for example depending on the total number of UUAs and or whether pre calibration as previously described was performed before beginning alignment harmonization.

Turning now to the method of the method begins as in block with operatively coupling an inertial measurement unit IMU with a common reference surface of a platform and beginning collection of angular rate data. In accordance with an embodiment operative coupling of IMU to common reference surface may be achieved by manually and or mechanically holding IMU in place on common reference surface . In one specific example embodiment IMU may be optionally joined with an interface which may be mated with an alignment slot and an alignment hole formed in platform or otherwise in a reference plate that is operatively coupled with platform . As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure and in accordance with an embodiment it may be desirable to ensure that IMU is substantially flush flat with common reference surface before beginning collection of angular rate data. Furthermore and in accordance with an embodiment beginning or otherwise initializing angular rate data collection may be achieved using any of a wide variety of suitable techniques e.g. hardware software user interface etc. as will be apparent in light of this disclosure. In some cases it may be desirable to determine the attitude of common reference surface e.g. before beginning angular rate data collection for subsequent use for instance in determining the difference in attitude discussed below with reference to block in accordance with an embodiment.

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure in some instances IMU initially may go through an optional calibration as discussed below with reference to optional block at the end of which IMU remains operatively coupled with the common reference surface . Thus in some such instances the operative coupling described in block may be provided already and thus IMU need not be moved or otherwise adjusted at the end of the optional calibration of block before proceeding with block .

Next the method continues as in block with uncoupling IMU from common reference surface and then transitioning IMU to a reference surface of a unit under alignment UUA . As previously noted as IMU is transitioned from common reference surface to UUA reference surface it outputs angular rate data which may be utilized e.g. such as described below with reference to block to correct for one or more angular rate errors that may be associated with IMU . As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure and in accordance with an embodiment it may be desirable to ensure that a relatively steady smooth transition is made for instance to minimize or otherwise reduce the likelihood of introducing errors resulting from jarring or otherwise disrupting IMU .

Subsequently the method continues as in block with operatively coupling IMU to UUA reference surface and stopping collection of angular rate data. Operative coupling of IMU with UUA reference surface may be achieved in much the same way as discussed above with common reference surface in the context of block . As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure and in accordance with an embodiment it may be desirable to ensure that IMU is substantially flush flat with UUA reference surface before stopping collection of angular rate data. Furthermore and in accordance with an embodiment stopping or otherwise terminating angular rate data collection may be achieved using any of a wide variety of suitable techniques e.g. hardware software user interface etc. as will be apparent in light of this disclosure.

Thereafter the method may continue as in block with using the angular rate data output by the IMU to determine a difference in attitude between the common reference surface and the UUA reference surface . In accordance with an embodiment the angular rate data may be interpreted or otherwise analyzed e.g. integrated by one or more processors operatively coupled with IMU . Such interpretation analysis may be performed in part or in whole 1 in real time and or 2 at some later time after collection. As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure and in accordance with an embodiment the angular attitude difference can be utilized in alignment harmonization of common reference surface of platform and reference surface of UUA .

As previously discussed a given IMU e.g. a low cost IMU may have a number of errors e.g. angular rate error rate scale factor error etc. associated therewith which may hinder or otherwise detract from the overall accuracy of alignment harmonization. Thus in accordance with an embodiment the method of optionally may begin as in block with calibrating the IMU to be used in the alignment harmonization process.

To perform such optional IMU calibration it may be desirable first to determine 1 the coordinates e.g. latitude of the common reference surface to which IMU will be operatively coupled 2 the attitude of such common reference surface 3 the heading of such common reference surface with respect to true north and 4 the direction of gravity e.g. determination of the downward direction . After such information is gathered the IMU may be operatively coupled with the common reference surface for a period of time e.g. in the range of about 5 minutes sufficient to capture angular rate error data. Thereafter the IMU may be uncoupled from common reference surface rotated through a given angle e.g. less than or equal to about 360 less than or equal to about 720 etc. and then recoupled with common reference surface to capture rate scale factor error data. In accordance with an embodiment the obtained angular rate error and rate scale factor error data can be used e.g. interpreted analyzed such as described above with reference to block to correct for one or more errors e.g. Earth rate g sensitive drift rate g insensitive drift rate rate scale factor error etc. that may be associated with IMU thereby contributing to improving the accuracy of alignment harmonization.

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure and in accordance with an embodiment the angular rate error and rate scale factor error data can be used to calibrate IMU and thus establish an IMU reference which may be used as a baseline for all subsequent UUA reference surface attitude measurements. However as will be appreciated some IMUs may have minimal or otherwise negligible manageable errors and thus the calibration of IMU discussed above with reference to block as previously noted may be entirely optional in accordance with an embodiment.

As previously noted IMU outputs angular rates as it is transitioned from the common reference surface to the corresponding UUA reference surface . The resultant data e.g. angular rates of yaw pitch and or roll rotation may be transmitted from IMU to one or more processors that are operatively coupled with IMU . Processor s in turn may be used to interpret or otherwise analyze e.g. integrate the angular rate data and in some cases the aforementioned angular rate error and rate scale factor error data obtained during optional calibration block to provide an accurate measurement of the angular attitude difference between common reference surface of platform and reference surface of UUA within a common reference frame. Such interpretation analysis by processor s may be performed for example 1 using an on board computer of platform the IMU itself e.g. in some cases in which a processor is integral to IMU and or other suitable devices e.g. laptop PDA like device etc. and or 2 with any suitable software e.g. standard custom etc. which performs the desired interpretations analysis e.g. integration .

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure the longer the period of time between beginning block and stopping block the collection of angular rate data the greater the magnitude of any accumulated angular rate error s associated with IMU . However in accordance with an embodiment such accumulation of error s can be substantially calibrated out using the techniques architecture described herein to improve the accuracy of alignment harmonization of any given collection of UUAs .

Also as previously noted the techniques disclosed herein may be readily used in some instances to achieve alignment harmonization of multiple UUAs . For example in some embodiments IMU may be passed from a common reference surface to a reference surface of a first UUA as described above then back to the common reference surface then to a reference surface of a second UUA and so on for any number of UUAs . The steps denoted with respect to blocks and may be repeated to achieve alignment harmonization for each subsequent UUA e.g. a second UUA a third UUA a fourth UUA etc. that is operatively coupled with a given platform . However the claimed invention is not so limited for instance in some other embodiments in which IMU has sufficiently small errors IMU may be passed from a common reference surface to a reference surface of a first UUA as described above then to a reference surface of a second UUA and so on for any number of UUAs without returning to common reference surface .

As will be appreciated in light of this disclosure once a given UUA reference surface is aligned with UUA further adjustments to such alignment may be unnecessary. However in accordance with an embodiment periodic checks realignments using the disclosed techniques architecture may be performed to maintain the accuracy of alignment harmonization.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

