---

title: Method of treatment using α-1-adrenergic agonist compounds
abstract: Methods for treating or preventing cardiomyopathy in a subject by administering an α1 adrenergic receptor agonist, wherein the treatment does not result in increased blood pressure are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08778897&OS=08778897&RS=08778897
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08778897
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120907
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 610 720 filed Nov. 2 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 110 400 filed Oct. 31 2008 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under grant no. HL031113 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter described herein relates to a method of treating cardiomyopathy in a patient undergoing doxorubicin treatment using an alpha 1 adrenergic agonist compound.

Anthracyclines are widely accepted as some of the most effective anti cancer drugs Weiss 1992 Semin. Oncol. 19 670 686 . Nevertheless clinical use of the anthracyclines doxorubicin Dox and daunorubicin DNR have proven to be hampered by side effects such as the development of resistance in tumor cells or toxicity in healthy tissues most notably chronic cardiomyopathy and congestive heart failure CHF . To avoid the latter the maximum recommended cumulative dosages of DNR and Dox were tentatively set at 500 or 450 to 600 mg m respectively. Furthermore there have been numerous attempts to identify novel anthracyclines that prove superior to DOX or DNR in terms of activity and or cardiac tolerability. Unfortunately few have reached the stage of clinical development and approval. Additional anthracyclines that have been approved for clinical use include epirubicin idarubicin pirarubicin aclarubicin and mitroxantrone Minotti et al. 2004 Pharmacol. Rev. 56 185 229 .

Doxorubicin is the most commonly used anthracycline in the treatment of hematological and solid malignancies. Doxorubicin induced cardiomyopathy may be divided into acute subacute and late forms Bristow et al. 1978 Cancer Treat. Rep. 62 873 879 . The acute form is myocarditis pericarditis syndrome that starts within 24 hours of the infusion and is not associated with poor long term prognosis. Minor effects are picked up on the electrocardiogram EKG but in most cases resolve without any major problems. Subacute toxicity ensues weeks after Doxorubicin treatment but may be seen as late as 30 months. This form is associated with chronic changes and mortality may be as high as 60 Goorin et al. 1981 Cancer 47 2810 2816 . Chronic toxicity may be evident as late as 4 to 20 years after the treatment with doxorubicin. It is accompanied by clinical heart failure and echocardiographic and pathologic changes.

Chronic cardiac changes that are due to doxorubicin appear to be irreversible and the prognosis with doxorubicin induced cardiomyopathy seems to be very poor without cardiac replacement therapy. Several agents have been employed for the attenuation of cardiomyopathic damaged induced by doxorubicin and include anti oxidants angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and dexrazoxane. However none have yet gained sufficient proof of efficacy to justify a routine use. It appears the only reliable medical treatment of this condition is its prevention Hamed et al. 2006 Eur. Heart J. 27 1876 1883 Simsir et al. 2005 Ann. Thorac. Surg. 80 717 719 .

The ultrastructural features of anthracycline induced cardiomyopathy characterized in patients endomyocardial biopsies include the loss of myofibrils dilation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum cytoplasmic vacuolization swelling of mitrochondria and increased number of lysosomes. When severe it leads to CHF.

Aries et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 2004 101 6975 6980 showed that cardiotoxicity induced by Dox administration is correlated with a decrease in expression of the GATA 4 transcription factor resulting in cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Aries et al. stated the results indicate that GATA 4 is an anti apoptotic factor required for the adaptive stress response of the adult heart and suggests that use of 1 agonists in combination therapy with Dox may be beneficial to patients undergoing chemotherapy.

However 1 AR agonists are well known to effect an increase in blood pressure. Indeed 1 AR agonists such as phenylephrine and methoxamine are marketed as drugs to treat hypotension. Thus while administration of alpha1 agonists to patients receiving Dox treatment may reduce or prevent cardiotoxicity such treatment may result in a detrimental increase of blood pressure in the patient.

It has been surprisingly discovered that the compound N 5 4 5 Dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl 2 hydroxy 5 6 7 8 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl methanesulfonamide hydrobromide known as A61603 when administered at an appropriate dose to a mammal undergoing Dox treatment can provide beneficial reduction in cardiotoxicity without increasing blood pressure.

The following aspects and embodiments thereof described and illustrated below are meant to be exemplary and illustrative not limiting in scope. Other limitations of the related art will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the specification.

In one aspect a method for treating or preventing cardiomyopathy comprising administering A61603 to a subject undergoing treatment with an anthracycline a therapeutically effective dose of A61603 wherein the dose does not result in an increase in blood pressure is provided.

In another aspect a method for reducing the symptoms of cardiomyopathy comprising administering A61603 to a subject undergoing treatment with an anthracycline a therapeutically effective dose of A61603 wherein the dose does not result in an increase in blood pressure is provided.

In one embodiment the anthracycline is selected from the group consisting of doxorubicin daunorubicin epirubicin idarubucin adriamycin and valrubicin.

In one embodiment the dose of A61603 is between about 1 ng kg day and about 50 ng kg day between about 5 ng kg day and about 40 ng kg day between about 7 ng kg day and about 20 ng kg day or between about 9 ng kg day and about 12 ng kg day. In another embodiment the dose of A61603 is about 1 ng kg day 2 ng kg day 3 ng kg day 4 ng kg day 5 ng kg day 6 ng kg day 7 ng kg day 8 ng kg day 9 ng kg day 10 ng kg day 11 ng kg day 12 ng kg day 13 ng kg day 14 ng kg day 15 ng kg day 16 ng kg day 17 ng kg day 18 ng kg day 19 ng kg day 20 ng kg day 25 ng kg day 30 ng kg day 35 ng kg day 40 ng kg day or 50 ng kg day.

In one embodiment the dose of A61603 is co administered with the anthracycline to the subject. In another embodiment the dose of A61603 and the anthracycline are administered to the subject on the same day.

In one embodiment the dose of A61603 is administered to the subject after administration of the anthracycline. In another embodiment the dose of A61603 is administered for 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or more consecutive days following the anthracycline administration. In yet another embodiment the dose of A61603 is administered daily for a period of at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 or more days.

In one embodiment the dose of A61603 is administered to the subject prior to administration of the anthracycline. In another embodiment the dose of A61603 is administered to the subject 1 or 2 days prior to administration of the anthracycline. In yet another embodiment the dose of A61603 is administered at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 hours prior to administration of the anthracycline.

In one embodiment the dose A61603 is administered to the subject by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intraanerial buccal sublingual oral peroral or transdermal parenterally orally transdermally or nasally.

In one aspect a method for treating or preventing anthracycline induced cytotoxicity in a plurality of mammalian cardiac cells myocytes in a subject undergoing anthracycline treatment without increasing the blood pressure of the subject is provided comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective dose of A61603.

In one embodiment the anthracycline is selected from the group consisting of doxorubicin daunorubicin epirubicin idarubucin adriamycin and valrubicin.

In one embodiment the method prevents a decrease in fractional shortening in the subject by more than 5 8 10 12 15 or 20 as compared to fractional shortening in a subject undergoing anthracycline treatment but not administered A61603.

In one embodiment the method prevents an increase in the amount of creatine kinase or troponin in the serum of the subject by more than 2 fold 4 fold or 5 fold as compared to the amount of creatine kinase or troponin in the serum of the subject undergoing anthracycline treatment but not administered A61603.

In one embodiment the method prevents an increase in the percentage of cardiac fibrosis area by more than 4 6 8 10 or 12 in the heart of the subject undergoing the anthracycline treatment but not administered A61603.

In addition to the exemplary aspects and embodiments described above further aspects and embodiments will become apparent by reference by study of the following descriptions.

As used herein the terms treatment treating and the like generally mean obtaining a desired pharmacological and or physiological effect by administering a therapeutic substance effective to reduce the symptoms of the condition and or lessen the severity of the condition. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of completely or partially preventing a disease or symptom thereof and or may be therapeutic in terms of a partial or complete cure for a disease and or adverse effect attributable to the disease. Treatment as used herein covers any treatment of a disease in a mammal particularly a human and includes preventing the disease from occurring in a subject which may be predisposed to the disease but has not yet been diagnosed as having it inhibiting the disease. i.e. arresting its development or relieving the disease i.e. causing regression of the disease. More specifically treatment may mean providing a therapeutically detectable and beneficial effect on a patient suffering from cardiomyopathy.

 Blood Pressure is the pressure of the blood against the walls of the arteries when the heart beats systolic pressure and when the heart is at rest diastolic pressure .

The term effective amount amount effective or therapeutically effective amount when referring to the amount of the A61603 or pharmaceutical . . . compound of the invention or pharmacologically active agent is defined as that amount or dose of the compound or pharmacologically active agent that is sufficient for therapeutic efficacy e.g. an amount sufficient to prevent or treat cardiomyopathy reduce apoptosis in myocytes in vivo or in vitro reduce fractional shortening etc. .

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable means for example a carrier diluent or excipient that is compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and generally safe for administration to a recipient thereof or that does not cause an undesired adverse physical reaction upon administration.

The compound of the invention can be administered alone or as admixtures with conventional excipients for example pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable organic or inorganic carrier substances suitable for enteral or parenteral application which do not deleteriously react with the compound employed in the method. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include water salt solutions such as Ringer s solution alcohols oils gelatins and carbohydrates such as lactose amylose or starch fatty acid esters hydroxymethylcellulose and polyvinyl pyrrolidine. Such preparations can be sterilized and if desired mixed with auxiliary agents such as lubricants preservatives stabilizers wetting agents emulsifiers salts for influencing osmotic pressure buffers coloring and or aromatic substances which do not deleteriously react with the compounds employed in the methods of the invention. The preparations can also be combined when desired with other active substances to reduce metabolic degradation.

As used herein subject has its usual meaning and includes primates e.g. humans and nonhumans primates experimental animals e.g. rodents such as mice and rats farm animals such as cows hogs sheep and horses and domestic animals such as dogs and cats .

As used herein associated with simply means both circumstances exist and should not be interpreted as meaning one necessarily is causally linked to the other.

Cardiomyopathy is a disease of the heart muscle. This form of heart disease is often distinctive both in general symptoms and in patterns of blood flow to allow a diagnosis to be made. Increasing recognition of this disease along with improved diagnostic techniques has shown that cardiomyopathy is the major cause of heart failure which has high morbidity and mortality. In some areas of the world it may account for as many as 30 percent of all deaths due to heart disease.

Cardiomyopathy can result from a variety of structural or functional abnormalities of the ventricular myocardium. There are three clinical classifications of cardiomyopathy hypertrophic restrictive and dilated congestive. Dilated congestive cardiomyopathy is a disorder of myocardial function where impaired systolic function and ventricular dilation occur classified as ischemic or non ischemic toxic genetic idiopathic etc . Restrictive cardiomyopathy is a rare form that occurs as a consequence of the ventricular walls becoming rigid so that the chambers are unable to fill adequately caused for example by infiltration with amyloid or some other foreign material. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is characterized by ventricular hypertrophy and may be congenital or acquired commonly caused by hypertension. The prognosis for all three types of disease is guarded at best and often poor. Treatment of cardiomyopathy involves beta blockers angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors use of anti coagulants and cardiac transplantation.

Cardiomyopathy usually the dilated type is well known to result from the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin in patients who receive a cumulative dose of more than about 500 mg m. Although several mechanisms such as free radical dependent lipid peroxidation mitochondrial impairment and modification of cardiac calcium transport have been reported to be the cause of the cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines the precise mechanism of myocardial impairment remains unclear.

When cardiomyopathy is sufficiently advanced it causes congestive heart failure with physiological symptoms including breathlessness with exertion or even at rest swelling of the legs ankles and feet bloating distention of the abdomen with fluid fatigue irregular heartbeats and dizziness lightheadedness and fainting.

The 1 adrenergic receptors 1 ARs are important mediators of sympathetic nervous system responses particularly those involved in cardiovascular homeostasis such as arteriolar smooth muscle constriction and cardiac contraction. In addition ARs have more recently been implicated in the cardiac hypertrophy cardio protection and in ischemic preconditioning. ARs are activated by the catecholamines norepinephrine and epinephrine.

The 1 adrenergic receptors are members of the superfamily of G protein coupled receptors and mediate effects related to the regulation of cellular growth and function Shibata et al. 2003 J. Biol. Chem. 278 672 678 . ARs consist of three subtypes A B and D ARsGraham et al. 1996. Circ. Res. 78 737 749 . The three different AR subtypes are expressed in different tissues and various cell types. As a result studies on the physiological effects mediated by each of the ARs in individual tissues are complicated by the co existence of multiple AR subtypes Minneman et al. 1994 Mol. Pharmacol. 46 929 936 Minneman and Esbenshade 1994. Annu. Rev. Pharmacol. Toxicol. 34 117 133 Weinberg et al. 1994 Biochem. Biophys Res. Commun. 201 1296 1304 Esbenshade et al. 1995 Mol. Pharmacol. 47 977 985 Shibata et al. 1995 Mol. Pharmacol. 48 250 258 .

 ARs were discovered through their physiological effect to increase smooth muscle contraction O Connell et al. 2006 J. Clin. Invest. 116 1005 1015 . AR antagonist drugs are commonly used to treat disorders with increased smooth muscle contraction such as hypertension and prostate enlargement with urinary symptoms. Examples of such drugs include doxazosin terazosin phenoxybenzamine and prazosin. These drugs however are not specific to a particular 1 AR subtype.

Accordingly AR agonists are generally considered to have therapeutic use in increasing blood pressure. Rokosh et al. 2002. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 99 9474 9479 performed studies in which A61603 was administered to wild type mice and to knock out mice in which the first exon of 1 AR was replaced with a lacZ construct to produce a mouse deficient in 1 AR. Experiments showed that in the wild type mice infusion of A61603 resulted in increased mean arterial pressure MAP by 35 mm Hg or 25 over basal with an EC0.3 g kg while in the knock out mice A61603 had no effect. These data indicated that the 1receptor is a potent vasopressor in the normal mouse. From this study the authors concluded that selective 1receptor antagonists might be efficacious in treating hypertension.

A61603 has the chemical formula N 5 4 5 Dihydro 1H imidazol 2 yl 2 hydroxy 5 6 7 8 tetrahydronaphthalen 1 yl methanesulfonamide hydrobromide see U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 634 705 and 6 323 231 . A61603 is at least 35 fold more potent at 1receptors than at 1or 1sites Knepper et al. 1995 J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 274 97 103 . A61603 is also a more potent 1AR agonist than the non selective a1 AR agonist phenylephrine.

A method of treating or preventing doxorubicin induced cardiomyopathy in a subject by administering A61603 wherein the administering does not cause hypertension or an increase in blood pressure is provided. In the method disclosed herein A61603 which activates the 1 adrenergic receptor in cardiac muscle is administered to a mammal which has received or which is receiving doxorubicin treatments to treat or prevent cardiomyopathy or cardiotoxicity.

In one embodiment the dose of A61603 administered is one that does not result in an increase in blood pressure in the mammal relative to the blood pressure prior to administration of the drug. Blood pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury mm Hg . Blood pressure below about 120 over about 80 mmHg is desirable for adults. High blood pressure or hypertension in an adult is typically considered as a blood pressure greater than or equal to about 140 mm Hg systolic pressure or greater than or equal to about 90 mm Hg diastolic pressure. It will be appreciated that these values are merely typical and that the actual blood pressure value will vary for a given individual and will vary between individuals. Thus in the present method administration of A61603 with no increase in blood pressure is preferably with respect to the same individual s blood pressure measured where possible under the same conditions such as time of day and body position before and after administration of the drug.

Therapeutically effective doses of A61603 for use in a mammal which have no effect on blood pressure or which result in no significant increase in blood pressure yet prevent the onset or progression of cardiomyopathy are determined through standard methods in the art. An example of such a method is presented in Example 1 herein. Varying doses of A61603 are administered to a patient receiving doxorubicin treatment followed by monitoring of blood pressure. Assays to determine whether or not A61603 is effective in preventing the onset of cardiomyopathy or reducing its progression are known to persons having ordinary skill in the art and include monitoring of fractional shortening ejection fraction end diastolic volume and troponin levels methods described in Bielecka Dabrowa et al. 2008 Cardiology J. 278 1 5 Nellessen et al. 2006 Clin. Cardiol. 29 219 224 . In one embodiment no increase in blood pressure is observed when the blood pressure is measured 24 hours after treatment in another embodiment no increase in blood pressure is observed when the blood pressure is measured 48 hours 72 hours 1 week or 1 month after treatment. In yet another embodiment blood pressure when measured 48 hours 72 hours 1 week or 1 month increases less than 10 or less than 15 after treatment with A61603.

In one embodiment administration of the dose of A61603 at an amount which does not increase blood pressure prevents the onset or progression of cardiomyopathy in a patient undergoing doxorubicin treatment. Progression of cardiomyopathy may be monitored in part by measuring levels of serum biomarkers such as creatine kinase troponin or brain natriuretic peptide BNP .

Progression of cardiomyopathy may be assessed in part by measuring fractional shortening FS or ejection fraction EF . FS is used to measure left ventricle performance by measuring the change in the diameter of the left ventricle between the contracted and relaxed state on M mode tracings and calculating the ratio according to the formula LV end diastolic diameter LV end systolic diameter LV end diastolic diameter 100. EF is calculated from left ventricular volumes determined by 2 dimensional echo as LV end diastolic volume LV end systolic volume LV end diastolic volume 100 A decrease in FS or EF is indicative of heart damage due to cardiotoxicity. In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of A61603 is administered to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment wherein the A61603 prevents more than 10 20 reduction in the FS or EF as compared to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment but is not administered A61603. In another embodiment administration of A61603 to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment prevents more than 5 reduction in the FS or EP as compared to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment but is not administered A61603.

In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of A61603 is administered to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment wherein the A61603 prevents more than 10 20 increase in the end diastolic volume as compared to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment but is not administered A61603. In another embodiment administration of A61603 to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment prevents more than 5 increase in the end diastolic volume as compared to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment but is not administered A61603.

It is well known that creatine kinase CK or troponin are released from myocytes when myocyte necrosis occurs. Accordingly measuring levels of CK or troponin in the serum may be done to assess the onset and progression of cardiomyopathy in a subject. Measuring serum CK levels is done using methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art for example by a coupled reaction of glucokinase and glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase using a diagnostic kit. In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of A61603 is administered to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment wherein the A61603 reduces the level of CK in the serum of the subject as compared to CK levels found in the serum of a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment but is not administered A61603.

Another indicator of Dox induced cardiomyopathy is increased cardiomyocyte apoptosis Arola et al. 2000 Cancer Res. 60 1789 1702 . Cardiomyopathy is also accompanied by an increase in fibrosis of the cardiac tissue. Fibrosis may be measured using Sirius Red staining a method well known to skilled artisans. In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of A61603 is administered to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment wherein the A61603 reduces the area of fibrosis in the heart as compared to a subject undergoing doxorubicin treatment but is not administered A61603.

For prevention it will be appreciated that the A61603 can be administered to precondition the heart for example prior to an invasive cardiac procedure such as a coronary intervention or a cardiac bypass.

The alpha 1 adrenergic agonist is administered parenterally orally transdermally nasally intravenously intraanerially sublingually transdermally or by any desired route of administration known in the pharmaceutical arts.

The alpha 1 adrenergic receptor agonist A61603 was administered to 11 week old wild type male C57BI6J mice using an osmotic minipump. Cardiomyopathy was induced with a single dose of doxorubicin 25 mg kg administered intraperitoneally. Blood pressure was measured by tail cuff activated phosphorylated P ERK by immunoblot heart mRNA by RT qPCR fractional shortening FS by echocardiography ECHO myocyte necrosis by serum creatine kinase CK apoptosis by TUNEL stain and fibrosis by Sirius red stain.

A61603 at 10 ng kg day over 7 days had no effect on daily tail cuff blood pressure as evidenced by the average blood pressure of the control vehicle treated mice of 115 4 mmHg and the average blood pressure of the mice treated with A61603 of 119 4 mmHg. A61603 at higher doses increased blood pressure.

A61603 at the non hypertensive dose of 10 ng kg day or vehicle was infused over 7 days after a single injection of doxorubicin. The table below shows that doxorubicin caused cardiomyopathy with a reduced survival and fractional shortening and increased necrosis apoptosis and fibrosis.

In alpha 1A subtype knock out mice doxorubicin caused increased apoptosis and mortality compared with wild type mice and A61603 had no beneficial result data not shown indicating specificity of A61603 for the alpha 1A adrenergic receptor.

In conclusion a dose of an agonist selective for alpha 1A adrenergic receptor subtype can activate cardiac survival signaling P ERK induce cardiac fetal genes and prevent doxorubicin induced cardiomyopathy all without increasing blood pressure.

A patient in need of doxorubicin treatment is administered a dose of A61603 simultaneously with the doxorubicin at a dose of A61603 which does not result in an increase in blood pressure. The patient first undergoes an A61603 dose finding study. The dose finding study is first performed in which the effects of a range of A61603 doses 0.01 100 g kg day is determined. The highest dose which does not result in an increase of blood pressure is used for co administration with doxorubicin.

To delineate and assess the effectiveness of A61603 in preventing cardiomyopathy the patient is monitored periodically throughout treatment with the A61603 and doxorubicin for changes in fractional shortening ejection volume and troponin levels in the serum as described in more detail above.

While a number of exemplary aspects and embodiments have been discussed above those of skill in the art will recognize certain modifications permutations additions and sub combinations thereof. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims and claims hereafter introduced are interpreted to include all such modifications permutations additions and sub combinations as are within their true spirit and scope. All patents and publications cited above are hereby incorporated by reference.

