---

title: Quick close button
abstract: A method, computer program product, and computer system for a quick close button for web browsers. A computing device determines a second web browser window was launched by a first web browser window. The computing device determines a location of a cursor. The computing device generates a close button associated with the second web browser window. The computing device displays the close button at the location of the cursor. Other methods and systems are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389747&OS=09389747&RS=09389747
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09389747
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120123
---
This disclosure relates to web pages and more particularly to a quick close button associated with web pages.

Users browsing Internet web sites may encounter pop up or pop under windows. A pop up window may contain unsolicited advertisements intended to attract web traffic or capture information from the user such as email addresses or browsing preferences. Pop up ads may be in the form of new web browser windows generated or launched by the web site and displayed above the web browser. Pop up ads may also be in the form of an overlay of the web site in which content is obscured by the overlay. Pop under windows are a variation of pop up windows where a new window browser window is open or launched beneath the active browser window.

In one implementation a method for a quick close button performed by one or more computing devices includes a computing device determining a second web browser window was launched by a first web browser window. The computing device determines a location of the cursor. The computing device generates a close button associated with the second web browser window. The computing device displays the close button at the location of the cursor.

One or more of the following features may be included. In some embodiments the computing device may close the second web browser window in response to receiving an input from a user via the close button. The computing device may remove the close button in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. In some embodiments the second browser window may be a pop up browser window or a pop under browser window. In some embodiments the computing device may generate a second close button associated with a third web browser window. The computing device may display the second close button. The computing device may close the third web browser window in response to receiving a second input from the user via the second close button. In some embodiments the computing device may associate the close button with the second web browser and at least one additional browser window launched by the first web browser window. The computing device may close the second web browser window and the at least one additional browser window in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. In some embodiments the computing device may remove the close button in response to receiving an input from a user clicking outside the close button.

In another implementation a computer program product resides on a computer readable medium that has a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions cause the processor to perform operations including determining a second web browser window was launched by a first web browser window determining a location of a cursor generating a close button associated with the second web browser window and displaying the close button at the location of the cursor.

One or more of the following features may be included. In some embodiments the computing device may close the second web browser window in response to receiving an input from a user via the close button. The computing device may remove the close button in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. In some embodiments the second browser window may be a pop up browser window or a pop under browser window. In some embodiments the computing device may generate a second close button associated with a third web browser window. The computing device may display the second close button. The computing device may close the third web browser window in response to receiving a second input from the user via the second close button. In some embodiments the computing device may associate the close button with the second web browser and at least one additional browser window launched by the first web browser window. The computing device may close the second web browser window and the at least one additional browser window in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. In some embodiments the computing device may remove the close button in response to receiving an input from a user clicking outside the close button.

In another implementation a computing system includes a processor and memory configured to perform operations including determining a second web browser window was launched by a first web browser window determining a location of a cursor generating a close button associated with the second web browser window and displaying the close button at the location of the cursor.

One or more of the following features may be included. In some embodiments the computing device may close the second web browser window in response to receiving an input from a user via the close button. The computing device may remove the close button in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. In some embodiments the second browser window may be a pop up browser window or a pop under browser window. In some embodiments the computing device may generate a second close button associated with a third web browser window. The computing device may display the second close button. The computing device may close the third web browser window in response to receiving a second input from the user via the second close button. In some embodiments the computing device may associate the close button with the second web browser and at least one additional browser window launched by the first web browser window. The computing device may close the second web browser window and the at least one additional browser window in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. In some embodiments the computing device may remove the close button in response to receiving an input from a user clicking outside the close button.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present disclosure may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present disclosure is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown quick close process that may reside on and may be executed by computer which may be connected to network e.g. the Internet or a local area network . Examples of computer may include but are not limited to a single server computer a series of server computers a single personal computer a series of personal computers a mini computer a mainframe computer or a computing cloud. The various components of computer may execute one or more operating systems examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell Netware Red Hat Linux Unix or a custom operating system for example.

As will be discussed below in greater detail quick close process may determine a second web browser window was launched by a first web browser window. A location of the cursor may be determined. A close button associated with the second web browser window may be generated. The close button may be displayed at the location of the cursor.

The instruction sets and subroutines of quick close process which may be stored on storage device coupled to computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown included within computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Quick close process may be accessed via quick close client applications . Examples of quick close client applications may include but are not limited to a standard web browser a customized web browser or a custom application. The instruction sets and subroutines of quick close client applications which may be stored on storage devices respectively coupled to client electronic devices respectively may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into client electronic devices respectively .

Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives flash drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM and read only memories ROM . Examples of client electronic devices may include but are not limited to personal computer laptop computer smart phone notebook computer a server not shown a data enabled cellular telephone not shown and a dedicated network device not shown .

One or more of quick close client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of quick close process . Accordingly quick close process may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of quick close client applications and quick close process .

Users may access computer and quick close process directly through network or through secondary network . Further computer may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example personal computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further notebook computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Laptop computer is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between laptop computer and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between laptop computer and WAP . Smart phone is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between smart phone and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and smart phones to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection. Client electronic devices may each execute an operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Apple iOS Microsoft Windows Android Red Hat Linux or a custom operating systems.

Now referring to a quick close process may determine a second web browser window was launched by a first web browser window. Quick close process may determine the location of the cursor. A close button associated with the second web browser window may be generated . Quick close process may display the close button at the location of the cursor. In some embodiments quick close process may determine whether the user clicked the close button. In some embodiments if quick close process determines that the user clicked the close button then quick close process may close the second web browser window and remove the close button. In some embodiments if quick close process determines that the user did not click the close button quick close process may determine if the user clicked outside the close button. In some embodiments if quick close process determines that the user did click outside the close button then quick close process may remove the close button. In some embodiments if quick close process determines that the user did not click outside the close button then quick close process may determine whether the user clicked the close button.

Quick close process may determine a second web browser window was launched by a first web browser window. In some embodiments the second browser window may be a pop up browser window or a pop under browser window. An example of a pop up browser window may include pop up ads also known as pop ups which may be a form of advertising or information gathering. Pop up ads may be new web browser windows launched by a web page. Other varieties of pop up browser windows may also be launched by the first web browser window. A pop under may be a variation of the pop up window where a new browser window is launched under the active browser window e.g. in the background of the display relative to the active browser window . A web page or web browser window may launch a single pop up or pop under window. In other embodiments a web page or web browser window may launch multiple pop up or pop under windows.

In some embodiments pop up ads may not be a new browser window and instead may be an overlay of the active web browser window. For instance in some embodiments the pop up may be an overlay of the active window which masks the active window until the pop up is closed or until a pre determined amount of time has elapsed. In some embodiments the user may be unable to interact with the active browser window due to the pop up overlay. In some embodiments the user may be able to interact with the active browser window but the content of the active browser window may be obscured by the pop up overlay.

Quick close process may determine the location of the cursor. In some embodiments the location of the cursor may be determined by interacting with the operating system of the computing device such as for example by an application programming interface function call. In some embodiments the location of the cursor may be determined through an image recognition approach wherein the computing device may scan the display to identify any objects that may be a cursor.

A close button associated with the second web browser window may be generated . In some embodiments quick close process may associate the close button with the second web browser and at least one additional browser window launched by the first web browser window. Quick close process may close the second web browser window and the at least one additional browser window in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. For example if the user clicks the close button quick close process may receive the input from the close button and close multiple web browser windows associated with the close button in response to a single click received from the user through the close button.

For example quick close process may associate the close button with multiple pop up and or pop under windows. If a user clicks the close button quick close process may close all the pop up and or pop under windows associated with the close button. In some embodiments quick close process may associate each pop up and or pop under window with a separate close button. In some embodiments quick close process may associate the close button with a STOP function of video and or audio content of the web page. In some embodiments the video and or audio content may be part of a pop up and or pop under window. In some embodiments the video and or audio content of the web page may automatically play. Associating the close button with the STOP function of the video and or audio content may permit the user to stop the video and or audio content that may be playing.

Quick close process may display the close button at the location of the cursor. In some embodiments if quick close process generated multiple close buttons then quick close process may display each close button at an offset from each other. For examples the multiple close buttons may be tiled may be stacked directly on top of each other or may be stacked in a cascade so that at least a part of each close button is visible to the user.

Quick close process may determine whether the user clicked the close button. If quick close process determines that the user clicked the close button then quick close process may close the second web browser window and may remove the close button.

In some embodiments quick close process may close the second web browser window in response to receiving an input from a user via the close button. Quick close process may remove the close button in response to receiving the input from the user via the close button. In some embodiments quick close process may remove the close button in response to the pop up and or pop under window being closed regardless of the method used to the close the window.

If quick close process determines that the user did not click the close button quick close process may determine if the user clicked outside the close button. If quick close process determines that the user did click outside the close button then quick close process may remove the close button. In some embodiments quick close process may remove the close button in response to receiving an input from a user clicking outside the close button. If quick close process determines that the user did not click outside the close button then quick close process may determine whether the user clicked the close button.

In some embodiments quick close process may determine that the user did not click the close button and moved the cursor outside of the close button. In some embodiments quick close process may remove the close button in response to quick close process determining that the user moved the cursor outside of the close button. In some embodiments quick close process may determine that the user moved the cursor outside of the close button by determining a current location of the cursor after generation of the close button. In some embodiments quick close process may determine that the user moved the cursor outside of the close button by tracking the location of the cursor after generation of the close button.

In some embodiments quick close process may generate a second close button associated with a third web browser window. Quick close process may close the third web browser window in response to receiving a second input from the user via the second close button.

Quick close process may display the second close button. In some embodiments quick close process may not generate the second close button until the first close button has been removed. In some embodiments quick close process may generate and display the second close button at an offset from the first close button so that the multiple close buttons may be visible to the user. In some embodiments the close button may include the title of the pop up window to indicate that the close button is associated with the particular pop up window. In some embodiments quick close process may generate a close button using a different color than the active browser window and may modify the pop up window i.e. by using an overlay to match the color of the close button which may indicate to the user that all windows that have the same color are associated with the close button and will be closed if the close button is clicked.

Now referring to a diagrammatic view of a screen image displayed by quick close process is depicted. Main web browser window and pop up window that provides close window button and X in the upper right corner of window are depicted. Quick close process may have determined pop up window was launched by main window and quick close process may have determined the location of cursor . Quick close process may have generated close button associated with pop up window and displayed close button at the location of cursor . If the user clicks close window button then quick close process may close pop up window and remove close window button . If the user clicks outside of close window button then quick close process may remove close window button without closing pop up window .

Close button may be generated and displayed proximate to a position of cursor at the time that pop up window is generated. As such the user may with minimal repositioning of pointer close pop up window . As such the user may not have to for example reposition pointer at close X or close window button if any are provided in pop up window of pop up window . Accordingly quick close process may provide a quick and easy mechanism for a user to close pop up windows with relatively increased economy of movement e.g. by eliminating the need to utilized closing features associated with the pop up .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.

