---

title: Surrogate lower receiver
abstract: This surrogate lower receiver tool makes it possible to retract the slip ring element on a conventional M16/M4 family weapon when the hand guards must be removed or reinserted. As will be appreciated by those in the gun repair trade, in the disassembly or reassembly of such weapons the handling of the slip ring element is often a manually challenging and painstaking activity. This disclosed tool handily is an assist in such activities. The surrogate lower receiver tool makes it possible to remove and install hand guards without a lower receiver being installed on the firearm, thus avoiding the risk of damage to or loss of the lower receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572884&OS=08572884&RS=08572884
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08572884
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121220
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This tool makes it possible to more conveniently handle the removal and installation of hand guards forearms on a conventional M16 M4 family weapon when the lower receiver subassembly is not available or not desired. As will be appreciated by those in the gun repair trade in the disassembly or reassembly of such weapons the handling of the hand guards and allied elements is a challenging tricky and painstaking activity often requiring two individuals and a good deal of hand gripping strength combined with pulling strength thus greatly needing improved assist. This disclosed tool handily is a great addition and assists in such activities.

The description as follows includes directional designations such as up down left right lateral transverse longitudinal top bottom vertical and the like that are taken from the perspective of a firearm e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 family style platform or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof as typically held and operated by a user.

The description assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician user operator maintenance personnel and the like for a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof and the respective components and operation thereof. The environment forms no part of the invention. Likewise designations such as a an and the are not to be construed to be limited to a singular item or action unless apparent from the context or definitely described as such.

As used herein elements having numbers more than 9 and less than 100 generally refer to conventional elements known in the art by one having ordinary skill while elements number 100 and above refer to the present invention or elements components and the like thereof.

As further understood by those having ordinary skill in the art the conventional M16 M4 AR 15 family weapons are made to an exacting technical data description that is agreed upon by manufacturers and that provides interchangeability and modularity within and between manufacturers using such designation. As such designation of the subject firearms as being within M16 M4 AR 15 family weapons provides the indication designation of de facto standardization of the components so designated. Thus such designation is distinct and particular as used in connection with claims directed thereto.

During assembly and repair operations of AR 15 M16 pattern style or family rifles and M4 pattern style or family carbines i.e. weapons and variants thereof referred to as guns weapons or firearms hereafter the hand guards i.e. mechanism assembly etc. of such weapons e.g. forearms fore ends hand grips etc. as is well known to those skilled in the art of the assembly maintenance and repair of the weapons are often removed and installed or reinstalled . Such repairs may include tasks such as but not limited to installation of new hand guards to replace damaged hand guards upgrading of obsolete hand guards and replacement of damaged gas tubes barrels front sights etc.

Referring to a left side elevation view of a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and or M4 carbine is illustrated is a broken partial view. Also referring to as well top right side and rear elevation views respectively of a conventional hand guard removal tool is illustrated. The firearm comprises an upper receiver subassembly and a lower receiver subassembly .

The upper receiver subassembly comprises a hand guard group and end cap and a slip ring e.g. delta ring collar etc. . The hand guard group comprises a pair of hand guards that are configured to matingly engage the end cap at the front the slip ring at the rear and each other longitudinally to form a substantially solid structure that is urged and held retained in place via a slip ring spring not shown . The details of the hand guard group and allied components are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further details may be found for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 090 150 4 536 982 and 4 663 875 which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. One implementation of the slip ring spring may be found for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 090 150 as element .

The upper receiver further comprises a front mounting lug and a rear mounting lug . The upper receiver matingly engages the lower receiver subassembly and the subassemblies and are held in place as a single unit via a pivot pin at lateral holes in the front of the lower receiver and through a hole in the front lug and a takedown pin at lateral holes in the rear of the lower receiver and through a hole in the rear lug . The lower receiver further comprises a magazine well and a bolt carrier group . As is well known in the art the magazine well is configured to receive an ammunition magazine to feed cartridges into the weapon . During the conventional process of removal or installation of the hand guard assembly the firearm bolt is retained within the upper receiver by way of the lower receiver and allied components.

In one example of conventional removal and or installation of the hand guards the conventional hand guard removal tool generally includes a pair of lever arms L left and R right an end plate and an engagement flange . The end plate may be generally triangularly shaped having a first end of each of the arms L and R fixed outwardly from the plane of the triangle in the same generally perpendicular direction at two respective vertices and the engagement flange fixed at the third vertex and protruding in the same direction as the arms L and R. When viewed from a side as shown for example on the conventional tool has a generally hook J shape.

The end plate is sized such that the arms L and R are spaced to loosely intersect the outer perimeter of the slip ring shown in phantom on for reference at about the fore aft midpoint. The flange is sized to loosely fit into the magazine well . The end plate is further sized and shaped such that the arms L and R are substantially perpendicular to the main axis of the weapon . That is the arms L and R are pointing away from the top side of the rifle when the conventional tool has the engagement flange inserted into the magazine well and the arms L and R are straddling the slip ring .

In some alternative conventional examples not shown the conventional hand guard installation and removal tool is implemented as a single metallic rod that is bent into a shape similar to the conventional tool as illustrated on and described herein. In another example of convention retraction of the slip ring makeshift lever type arrangements of paracord or rope wrapped around the slip ring and threaded through the magazine well of the lower receiver similarly to the operation of the conventional tool . The methods of use of such alternative conventional examples are essentially the same as described herein in connection with the conventional tool on and A C .

With the conventional tool mounted to positioned on the rifle as described above the operator squeezes the arms L and R towards each other see direction arrows AS on and substantially simultaneously forces the arms L and R rearward see direction arrow AD on to compress the slip ring spring and slide retract the slip ring rearward to release the hand guards during removal and provide for insertion of the hand guards during installation.

Another conventional example of a tool to aid the retraction of the slip ring is shown and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 269 577 issued to Hardy. U.S. Pat. No. 6 269 577 is directed to tool to assist in the field removal of a rifle s hand grips or hand guards comprising a pair of releaseably joined split ring segments which are adapted to urge the slip ring of a rifle away from the rifle s mounting ring thereby freeing the rifle s hand grips. Elastic means are provided linking the device with the rifle s stock thereby permitting pressure to continuously urge the slip ring away from the mounting ring.

However while the tool of U.S. Pat. No. 6 269 577 does appear to provide a user a more firm grasp of the slip ring the tool of U.S. Pat. No. 6 269 577 does not appear to provide the leverage gained via the arms L and R of the conventional tool . Further the tool of U.S. Pat. No. 6 269 577 contains many small components that may be misplaced and in any case may cause a more time consuming operation than implementation of the conventional tool .

In another conventional method of installation and removal of the hand guards no external tools are used. The operator or sometimes multiple operators manually grip and retract the slip ring while simultaneously removing the hand guards from the upper assembly . However many hand guards are too difficult to readily remove manually even with the aid of a second person. As such most users owners gunsmiths armorers repair technicians etc. perform AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine hand guard installation and removal via the use of magazine well of the lower receiver of the rifle and the conventional lever device to retract the slip ring as described above.

Currently used actual lower receivers have the deficiencies that they are large and heavy especially when a butt stock is installed and expensive subject to theft may be damaged during the hand guard installation and removal process and lower receivers are a regulated article that is federally registered as a firearm. Many weapon owners armorers and gunsmiths have multiple upper receiver assemblies on which repair and maintenance are performed. The damage of a lower receiver may be financially burdensome and the loss of a lower receiver may result in possible criminal investigation and or prosecution.

Conventional devices and methods to retain the bolt carrier group during handling and or storage of the upper receiver include securing the bolt carrier group via tie wraps cord and the like or with a commercially available AR 15 M16 Upper Receiver Bolt Saver apparatus from Black Dog Machine LLC Nampa Id.

Thus there is a need and a desire for a system and a process that overcomes one or more of the deficiencies of conventional devices and processes.

The description herein assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician user operator maintenance personnel and the like for a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof and the respective components and operation thereof. The description may include directional designations such as up down left right lateral transverse longitudinal top bottom vertical and the like that are taken from the perspective of a firearm e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 family style platform or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof as typically held and operated by a user.

The surrogate lower receiver tool of the present invention eliminates the need for an actual lower receiver thusly provides a non regulated i.e. not subject to government registration compact low cost and light weight tool to aid the installation and removal of the hand guards of AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine hand guards. The surrogate lower receiver tool is generally mounted on the upper receiver in lieu of the lower receiver to aid the removal and installation of the hand guards i.e. the subassembly .

The surrogate lower receiver of the present invention is implemented in connection with a conventional tool and thusly eliminates the inconvenience and expense of a second person that is recommended when a single person is unable to manually perform the hand guard installation and removal processes as is many times the case.

The surrogate lower receiver of the present invention may also be implemented as at least one embodiment that further provides retention of the firearm bolt carrier group. Such a bolt carrier group retention feature may reduce or eliminate possible damage or loss of the bolt carrier group during the hand guard installation and removal processes or during storage of the upper receiver assembly .

The description as follows is directed to a firearm surrogate lower receiver tool wherein elements of the tool are numbered 100 and above and includes directional designations such as up down left L right R lateral transverse longitudinal front forward back backward rearward top bottom vertical and the like that are generally taken from the perspective of a firearm gun weapon and the like e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 M4 family style platform or pattern rifle and carbine and variants thereof as designated element on as typically held and operated e.g. fired .

The description is generally related to and made in connection with the AR 15 M16 pattern platform style or family rifles and M4 pattern carbines i.e. weapons and variants thereof referred to as guns weapons or firearms hereafter . The description is generally applicable to removal and installation of the hand guard subassembly e.g. the hand guards and the surrogate lower receiver tool may be advantageously implemented in connection with other firearms having the same or similar hand guards. The surrogate lower receiver tool is generally mounted on the upper receiver in lieu of the lower receiver to aid the removal and installation of the hand guard subassembly . That is the surrogate lower receiver tool generally mimics the performance of the conventional lower receiver .

Elements numbered 100 and above of the present invention may include but are not necessarily included in all embodiments and are not limited to 

Referring to an isometric view of a firearm hand guard removal and installation or insertion surrogate lower receiver tool i.e. apparatus device unit kit assembly etc. is shown from the front and left side. The tool is generally implemented in connection with removal and installation of the hand guard group of a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and or M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof i.e. gun firearm weapon etc. having an upper receiver assembly e.g. the receiver . On the kit is illustrated as generally oriented and deployed when installed on the upper receiver . For clarity of explanation the upper receiver the hand guard removal tool and details of the spring loaded operation of the hook channel and the bolt retainer are not shown on . Refer also to for additional illustration and description.

The surrogate lower receiver generally comprises a mounting bar a hook channel a bolt retainer and a pair of mounting fastening retaining holding etc. pins . The mounting bar is generally implemented as a channel having two e.g. left and right vertical walls and a horizontal floor e.g. bottom . The open channel portion of the mounting bar is generally positioned upward when the surrogate lower receiver is used. At opposing i.e. front and rear ends the mounting bar further comprises pairs of lateral retention holes through the side walls of the channel and substantially across from each other e.g. left and right front retention holes L and R respectively and left and right rear retention holes L and R respectively . The hole L a mirror of the hole R while illustrated is not labeled.

The channel member generally has a width selected to provide a snug fit across the width of the front mounting lug and the rear mounting lug of the upper receiver . The longitudinal distance between the left front retention hole L and the left rear retention hole L and likewise the longitudinal distance between the right front retention hole R and the right rear retention hole R are selected to be substantially the same as e.g. match the longitudinal distance between the lateral pivot pin mount hole in the front mounting lug and the lateral take down pin hole in the rear mounting lug .

The diameters of the lateral hole through the front mounting lug the left front retention hole L and the right front retention hole R are substantially equal. The diameters of the lateral hole through the rear mounting lug the left rear retention hole L and the right rear retention hole R are substantially equal. The diameter of the retention pins is selected to be slightly smaller than that of the pivot pin and the take down pin such that the retention pins may easily and quickly slide in and out of the combination of the lateral hole through the front mounting lug the left front retention hole L and the right front retention hole R and the combination of the lateral hole through the rear mounting lug the left rear retention hole L and the right rear retention hole R.

In a preferred embodiment the retention pins may be implemented as cinch pins which are known in the art and having a loop or circular stop on one end and ball spring detent retention on the other end. When the retention pins are implemented as cinch pins one or more lanyards may be connected between the retention pins and the mounting bar to prevent or reduce the likelihood of loss of the retention pins .

In another example the retention pins may be implemented as bolts having a head and with an appropriate torque retention nut. In another example the retention pins may be implemented as unthreaded push pins having a head at one end and internal spring retention. When the retention pins are implemented as unthreaded push pins magnets not shown may be affixed on the outer surface of the mounting bar proximate to the intended location of the heads of the retention pins to provide or aid retention. In another example the retention pins may be implemented having circular grooves for retention via C clips. In another example the retention pins may be implemented having cross drilled holes for retention via hairpin clips. In other examples the pins may be implemented as push pull single or double acting quick release pins.

The hook channel is pivotally attached to the mounting bar via a front axis member that is laterally fastened via laterally opposing left and right front axis holes L not shown mirror of the right front axis hole R and R respectively in the sides of the walls of bar and laterally opposing left and right hook axle holes L left shown on right not shown mirror of the left hook axis hole L in the hook channel to form a lateral revolute pivot joint.

The bolt retainer is pivotally attached to the mounting bar via a rear axis member that is laterally fastened via left and right respectively laterally opposing rear axis holes L and R in the sides of the walls of bar and the bolt retainer to form a lateral revolute pivot joint.

The hook channel is generally pivotally biased against the outer surface of the bottom of the mounting bar via a front spring . The bolt retainer is generally pivotally biased against the inner surface of the bottom of the mounting bar via a rear spring . The springs and may rotationally force the hook channel and the bolt retainer respectively similarly to how a bail element on a mousetrap is forced by its spring.

The hook channel is generally channel shaped having the open side inward spring biased against the mounting bar . The hook channel comprises a stop edge that is oriented laterally across the hook channel . When the hook channel is unfolded i.e. deployed opened out put into position for hand guard removal the edge generally rests against the outer surface of the bottom of the mounting bar and prevents further rotational movement of the hook channel . When the hook channel is unfolded the angle between the mounting bar and the hook channel is generally at or slightly less than perpendicular to the rear. The hook channel is otherwise biased by the front spring about the front axis member such that the bottom of the channel rests against the bottom of the mounting bar and the walls of the hook channel are nested over the walls of the mounting bar .

On the surrogate lower receiver is shown with the hook channel and the bolt retainer in deployed positions as would be the case when the tool is installed on the upper receiver and held in place via the mounting pins . However when the surrogate lower receiver is not installed on the upper receiver the hook channel is generally biased against the mounting bar by the front bias spring see for example and related description .

The bolt retainer is generally L shaped having a long leg of the L that is at an angle that is substantially perpendicular to the inner surface of the bottom of the mounting bar when the bolt retainer is deployed and a short leg that rests against the inner surface of the floor of the mounting bar and acts as a stop to prevent further rearward rotation of the bolt retainer . The length of the long leg of the bolt retainer is selected to interface within the recess in the bolt carrier group as illustrated in phantom on and thus retain i.e. prevent reward movement of the bolt carrier group .

However when the surrogate lower receiver is not installed on the upper receiver the long leg of the L of the bolt retainer is generally biased against the floor of the mounting bar by the rear bias spring see FIGS. and A D and related descriptions .

Referring to a sectional side view of the surrogate lower receiver taken at the line of is shown. In one embodiment the axis member may be staked welded or otherwise firmly fixed to the hook channel such that the axis member and the hook channel rotate as a single member. Likewise the axis member may be staked welded or otherwise firmly fixed to the bolt retainer such that the axis member and the bolt retainer rotate as a single member.

The front spring is generally implemented having a spiral shape and a first leg on the first end and a second leg on the second end. The inner surface of the spiral front spring surrounds wraps around the front axis member axle . In one example the front axis member may be cross drilled to receive the first leg of the spring and the second leg of the front bias spring is positioned against the inner surface of the bottom of the bar under tension such that the hook channel is biased to and nested against the mounting bar by the front bias spring .

The rear bias spring is generally implemented having a spiral shape and a first leg on the first end and a second leg on the second end. The inner surface of the spiral rear spring surrounds wraps around the rear axis member axle . In one example the rear axis member may be cross drilled to receive the first leg of the rear spring and the second leg of the rear spring is positioned against the inner surface of the bottom of the bar under tension such that the long leg of the L of the retaining bolt is biased against the mounting bar by the rear bias spring .

In alternative embodiments where the legs of the springs and are positioned against the inner surface of the mounting bar to provide rotational force to the hook channel and the bolt retainer the axes and are generally not cross drilled to receive a spring leg. In such embodiments the axles and may include i a bolt and nut subassembly where the nut includes torque retention ii a shaft with a head on one end and is grooved on the other end to receive a C clip retainer iii a shaft with a head on one end and on the other end is cross drilled to receive a pin retainer e.g. cotter pin hairpin and the like .

The fore aft longitudinal position of the axle i.e. the left and right front axis holes L and R is selected such that when the hook channel is deployed the inner surface of the channel portion of the hook channel is at substantially the same location as is the front of the magazine well of the lower receiver .

The fore aft longitudinal position of the axle i.e. the left and right rear axis holes L and R is selected such that when the bolt retainer is deployed the front surface of the long leg of the L shaped bolt retainer is at substantially the same location as is the rear edge of a notch recess the bolt in the bolt carrier group shown in phantom of the lower receiver . As such the bolt retainer provides a definite stop that may prevent rearward longitudinal movement of the bolt carrier group .

Referring to a partial left side view of the surrogate lower receiver is shown. The hook channel is illustrated in the closed e.g. retracted down folded stowed etc. position as is the case when the hook channel is biased against the mounting bar by the front bias spring .

Referring to a sectional side view of the surrogate lower receiver taken at the line of is shown. However contrary to the illustration of the bolt retainer is illustrated in the closed e.g. retracted down folded stowed etc. position as is the case when the retaining bolt is biased against the mounting bar by the rear bias spring .

Referring to partial bottom views of the surrogate lower receiver illustrating two alternative embodiments of the hook channel are shown. In the embodiment shown on the hook channel further comprises a pair of spacers . The spacers are generally tubular i.e. cylindrical with a through hole that receives the shaft . Leg portions of the hook channel that receive the axis member are substantially parallel to the main body of the hook channel and are positioned away from the mounting bar via the spacers on the left and right sides of the axis member . In the embodiment shown on the leg portions of the hook channel that receive the axis member are bent inward to rest against the mounting bar and receive the axis member . The spring has a leg that extends through a slot in the mounting bar and is bent to urge the hook channel against the mounting bar .

Referring to including sectional view A taken at line A A on a left side view of the hook channel is shown. Referring back to as well as in another example embodiment the lateral stop edge may further include a laterally oriented tang e.g. tab extension protrusion etc. . The tang may extend from the bottom of the hook channel and may provide strength and stability to the interface of the hook channel and the mounting bar when the hook channel is opened for use during hand guard removal or installation. Sectional view A more clearly illustrates a leg of the spring at rest on the inner surface of the bottom portion of the channel bar .

Referring to a top view of the embodiment of the hook channel as illustrated on is shown. The channel body of the hook channel generally has a width HW and a length HL that are sized to loosely but securely receive the engagement flange illustrated for reference in phantom to provide firm purchase i.e. solid resting position during use of the surrogate lower receiver as described below in connection with .

Referring to back rear partial left side partial front partial and top views respectively of the bolt retainer are shown. For clarity the axle is only illustrated on . As previously described the bolt retainer is generally L shaped having the long leg of the L that is spring biased via the rear spring against the mounting bar when the surrogate lower receiver is not in use to retain the bolt carrier group and a short leg that rests against the mounting bar when the surrogate lower receiver is implemented to retain the bolt carrier group . The bolt retainer further comprises an axle retainer that is formed at the right angle of the L. In another example the axle retainer may be implemented as a tubular element. The axis member axle is generally laterally positioned through the axle retainer and the walls of the mounting bar .

Gaps between the axle retainer and the body of the bolt retainer are sized to accommodate the legs of the rear spring .

When the bolt retainer is unfolded i.e. deployed opened out put into position for hand guard removal the long leg of the L generally rests against the rear surface the bolt component near the firing pin within a recess of the bolt carrier group see . However when the bolt carrier group is not present in the upper receiver the bolt retainer is left in the undeployed position. When the bolt retainer is unfolded the angle between the long leg of the L and the inner surface of the bottom of the mounting bar is generally at or slightly less than perpendicular. The bolt retainer is otherwise biased by the front spring about the rear axis member such that the long leg of the L rests against the bottom of the mounting bar .

As is known to one of skill in the art a number of appropriate arrangements may be implemented to bias the hook channel against the mounting bar and the bolt retainer against the mounting bar i.e. provide rotational tension torque about an axis between two elements on an axis as well as the embodiments described. The legs i.e. arms extensions prongs etc. of the bias springs and are generally positioned such that the hook channel and the bolt retainer are biased i.e. urged forced pushed actuated etc. against the mounting bar that is to closed retracted positions to provide a compact easy to store device.

The mounting bar the hook channel and the bolt retainer may be made from metal e.g. steel aluminum or the like filled plastic e.g. nylon polymer high strength polymer composites or any other material having the requisite materials properties as would be known to one of skill in the art. The pins and the springs and are generally made of steel or steel alloy.

Referring to a partial left side view illustrating use of the surrogate lower receiver tool is illustrated in connection with the conventional upper receiver and the conventional hand guard tool is shown. To mount the surrogate lower receiver to the upper receiver when the bolt carrier group is installed the bolt retainer is rotated to the vertical position. This step is not implemented when the bolt carrier group is not present. The surrogate lower receiver is aligned at the lugs and with the hook channel at the front at the front one of the pins is generally inserted laterally through a hole L or R and through the hole in the lug and across the mounting bar . Similarly at the rear one of the pins is generally inserted laterally through the hole L or R and through the hole in the lug and across the mounting bar . The order of insertion of the pins can be either front rear or rear front. As such the surrogate lower receiver is matingly engaged to the upper receiver .

The hook channel is then deployed to a position substantially perpendicular to the main axis of the upper receiver the hand guard tool is positioned with the legs straddling the slip ring and the engagement flange is inserted into the channel of the hook channel . As is done when a conventional lower receiver is installed on the upper receiver the legs of the hand guard tool are squeezed together and pushed rearward to retract the slip ring . When removal or installation of the hand guard group is complete the pins are pulled free and the surrogate lower receiver is removed from the upper receiver . However when desired the surrogate lower receiver may be left installed on the upper receiver such that the upper receiver may be stored handled shipped and the like with the bolt carrier group securely held in place via the bolt retainer of the surrogate lower receiver .

A number of simplified alternative embodiments of the tool may be implemented. For example at the joints between the bar and the hook channel the spring may be deleted and the rotational position of the hook channel may be maintained via friction ribs dimples surface roughness striations and the like at the interface between the bar and the hook channel . Similarly the spring may be deleted and the bolt retainer may be held in position via frictional fit of the bolt retainer to the mounting bar .

In another embodiment when the need for retention of the bolt carrier group is not anticipated by the user the bolt retainer and the spring may be deleted.

The firearm tool is generally used by a user such as an armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician maintenance personnel and the like. However a home non commercial user may find the surrogate lower receiver tool to be a useful aid as well. The surrogate lower receiver generally mimics a lower receiver and in connection with the conventional hand guard removal tool provides an improved system and method of retracting the slip ring .

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

