---

title: System and method for automatically publishing data items associated with an event
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed to automatically publish data items associated with a news event. In one embodiment, a method comprises determining, using one or more processors, an event of a plurality of events as associated with a heightened user interest, identifying one or more listings from a plurality of listings as matching the event associated with the heightened user interest, and presenting a visual representation of a relationship between the event and the one or more listings such that the one or more listings are displayed as visually related to the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495442&OS=09495442&RS=09495442
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09495442
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120405
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 604 265 filed on Oct. 22 2009 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 176 032 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Publication systems such as online advertisers online marketplaces or other aggregator websites deploy technology to selectively publish data items e.g. online advertisements marketplace listings news items etc. . These online publishers often selectively publish a subset of all the data items available to be published. A site administrator of an online publisher may decide which items to publish or suggest to a user.

Example methods and systems to provide items associated with events are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

According to one example embodiment a system and method is discussed that can automatically publish data items associated with an event e.g. an upcoming ongoing or just concluded event . For example a system and method may automatically publish data items associated with an event on a webpage or other electronic document that is disseminated or accessible to the public. This may be done by monitoring over time search queries associated with search query categories. The search queries may include a number of search terms which may be related and associated with a search query category or simply category . A search query category may be defined as a group of one or more related search terms. The search terms that are grouped together to form a search query category may all be related to a common concept idea or news event. Various information related to a search query category may be monitored and gathered e.g. by monitoring search queries that include search terms associated with the search query category.

The frequency with which a search term or a group of terms is used in search queries directed to an on line publishing system may indicate the level of users interest with respect to certain items associated with these search terms. Often the frequency of search queries or search request frequency associated with a search query category does not change dramatically over time. For example the frequency with which users may search for a camera or pet supplies remains substantially unchanged. It has been observed however that once in a while an on line publishing system experiences a surge in search queries related to a particular category of search terms. These sudden changes in the frequency of certain search queries often correspond to a news worthy event such as e.g. a release of a new movie a sports event upcoming presidential elections etc. The sudden change in the frequency of search queries associated with a search query category may indicate heightened interest among users in a topic that may be related to an event. When a change in the frequency of search queries associated with a search query category is detected it may be advantageous to preemptively display data items that may be produced by such search queries using the displaying technologies associated with the on line publishing system. In one embodiment the preemptive display of data items related to search query category associated with the heightened interest among users indicated by the increased frequency of search requests may also include displaying the name of a news event that may have triggered the surge of the search queries. An event related to the search query category may be determined first and any data items related to the event may be identified and displayed on a webpage together with the identification of the event. In one embodiment events may be quickly determined and content or data items related to user interest may be published to allow access by users. Furthermore in some embodiments events that reflect heightened user interest may be more accurately determined than if determined manually by a site administrator. In another embodiment the display of data items related to events may increase accessibility of a data item by a user. In an embodiment where the data item is an item listing on a network based marketplace the display of item listings related to events may result in improved product placement and as a result increase sales. In other embodiments where the data item is an advertisement to be published on a website the display of the advertisement related to events may result in increased ad revenues as a result of increased user selection.

A data item for the purposes of this description will be understood as any unit of displayable digital content. For example a data item may be a web link an image a file a text item or a combination of these. In one embodiment a data item is an item listing on a network based marketplace. The item listing may include one or more of the following a link to an item page of an item for sale on the network based marketplace a description or textual information about the item for sale a picture of the item for sale an advertisement for the item for sale an interface to purchase the item for sale or any other information associated with the item for sale on a network based marketplace. In other embodiments a data item may include news listings on one or more news websites music or video listings stock listings etc.

For the purposes of this description an event may be defined as an occurrence that draws the common interest of a number of users or anything that is newsworthy. A sample list of events may include elections wars or conflicts debates movie premiers movie or show times sporting events conventions celestial events anniversaries of events or other media events.

In order to present to users data items that are subject of a heightened interest and also present information related to the perceived cause of the heightened interest an event item matching system may be provided in conjunction with an on line publishing system. In one example embodiment the event item matching system may be configured to monitor search queries directed to the on line publishing system. The search queries may be identified as related to respective predetermined search query categories based on the search terms that are present in the search queries. Search query categories may be created by grouping search terms or keywords used in the search queries based on their similarity or relation to a common concept or topic to form a search query category. The monitoring of the search queries may reveal that the frequency of those search queries that include search terms from a certain search query category has increased above a predetermined threshold value. The event item matching system may respond by determining a news event that corresponds to the topic or concept that unifies the terms grouped in the certain search query category. The event item matching system may then identify based on the search terms present in the search term category data items that may be related to the news event. The determined data items in the form of e.g. item listings links advertisements etc. may then be published together with the determined news event on a web page associated with the on line publishing system.

In one embodiment in order to determine that the frequency of those search queries that include search terms from a certain search query category has increased above a predetermined threshold value the frequency of search queries is compared to a baseline frequency of search queries associated with the search query category. The baseline frequency of a search query category may be determined by calculating a value that reflects an average number of search queries associated with a search query category performed in a certain period of time or by some other metric. The length of monitored time frames or periods may be adjusted in order to detect short term events e.g. a lunar eclipse or long term events e.g. a tennis tournament or presidential elections campaign . For example the time frame length may be a day three days a week a month etc. Multiple time frames of various time frame lengths may also be monitored such that short term events which may require shorter time frames and long term events which may require larger time frames can be monitored at the same time. The baseline frequency associated with a search query category may be compared with the current search query frequency for the category to determine whether there has been a change in search query frequency associated with the category. In some embodiments the baseline frequency for a search query category may reflect an absolute frequency of search queries associated with the category for a selected period of time.

In one embodiment a method comprises determining using one or more processors an event of a plurality of events as associated with a heightened user interest identifying one or more listings from a plurality of listings as matching the event associated with the heightened user interest and presenting a visual representation of a relationship between the event and the one or more listings such that the one or more listings are displayed as visually related to the event. Various embodiments are described below with respect to .

An example system for automatically publishing data items associated with an event may be implemented in the context of a network environment as shown in . illustrates a network environment within which an example system for automatically publishing data items associated with an event may be implemented. The environment may include one or more server machines connected through a network e.g. the internet to one or more client machines . The server machines may comprise an event item matching module and one or more publishing platforms such as a network based trading platform. In one embodiment the network based trading platform may provide one or more marketplace applications payment applications and other resources. The marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access the marketplace. The payment applications likewise may provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The network based trading platform may display various items listed on the trading platform.

The embodiments discussed in this specification are not limited to network based trading platforms however. In other embodiments other publishing platforms such as a social networking websites news aggregating websites web portals network based advertising platforms or any other system that display items to users may be used. Furthermore more than one platform may be supported by each event item matching module and each platform may reside on a separate server machine from the event item matching module .

The client machine may host a web client or a web browser . The client machine may be configured to permit a user to access the various applications resources and capabilities of the publishing platform via a web browser . While illustrates the client machine and the server machine in a client server architecture other embodiments are not limited to this architecture and may equally find applications in a distributed peer to peer or standalone architectures. An example event item matching module may be discussed with reference to .

A query monitoring module may be configured to monitor query activities such as search queries that use one or more search terms or keywords of a number of users of a publishing platform. In other embodiments the query monitoring module may monitor query activities of a number of users across multiple publishing platforms over time. For example users search queries on a marketplace platform an online search engine and a news aggregator service may all be monitored by the same query monitoring module . Search terms or keywords used in the search queries may be tracked in a memory of the query monitoring module or recorded in a database of the query monitoring module . The query monitoring module may also group together combine or merge related search terms or keywords used in the search queries based on their similarity and associate them with one or more search query categories. The tracking of search terms used in search queries may be performed in real time as each search query is processed or in one or more batch jobs using the information stored in the memory or database of the query monitoring module .

The query monitoring module may monitor search queries to determine baseline frequencies for each of the search query categories. For example the frequency of search queries associated with a search query category may be tracked and recorded in a memory for one or more baseline time frames e.g. the past 7 days the past month the past year the past three years every year for the past five years and a baseline frequency for the search query category may be determined based on the frequency of search queries for one or more of these baseline time frames. For the purpose of illustration some example baseline frequencies associated with a search query category may be 20 searches per day based on there being an average of 20 searches per day for the last thirty days 7 searches per hour based on there being an average of 7 searches per hour based on a sampling of 20 randomly selected hours 40 searches per week based on there being 40 searches in the previous week etc.

The query monitoring module may also monitor the search queries to detect a change in search request frequency associated with a search query category. For example the frequency of search queries associated with a search query category can suddenly increase above a baseline frequency or decrease below the baseline frequency over a certain time frame or period. The length of the time frames used to monitor a change in frequency of search queries associated with a search query category may be adjusted in order to detect short term events or long term events. For example the time frame length used to monitor a change in frequency of search queries associated with a search query may be a day three days a week a month etc. Multiple time frames of various time frame lengths may also be monitored such that short term events which may require shorter time frames and long term events which may require larger time frames can be monitored at the same time.

One or more search query categories may also be identified by the query monitoring module as reflecting users heightened interest in an event based on the interest level among multiple users. For example the frequency of search queries associated with one or more search query categories may surge in a certain period of time. The surge in frequency of search queries associated with one or more search query categories may indicate heightened interest in one or more events associated with the one or more search query categories. These search query categories may be identified as associated with increased search intensity so that data items associated with the events corresponding to the identified search query categories may be displayed.

In one embodiment users interest levels may be measured based on the change in search request frequency associated with a search query category. For example the query monitoring module may rank search query categories based on the amount or degree of change in the frequency of search queries associated with each search query category. The search query categories with the greatest increase in search request frequency for a given time frame may be identified as associated with increased search intensity. In another embodiment one or more search query categories may be identified as associated with increased search intensity based on the absolute search frequency over a given time frame i.e. the number of times a search query associated with each of the search query categories is issued during that time frame.

An event detecting module may determine an event that potentially triggered an increase in the frequency of search queries associated with a search query category. An event detecting module may be configured to interrogate an event database with search terms from a search query category to identify a related news event. An event database may be located on one or more of the server machines of the publishing platform in the event detecting module or at a remote location. In one embodiment the event detecting module may automatically populate the event database with records storing event information e.g. by interacting with a calendaring system a news provider system or a news event search tool. Alternatively or in addition the event database may be populated manually.

In another embodiment the event detecting module may determine an event associated with a search query category identified by the query monitoring module as associated with increased search intensity by querying a database maintained by one or more third party providers of event information with information relating to the one or more identified search query categories. One example of a third party provider of event information is a news service provider or aggregator that can be queried with information relating to an identified search query. In some embodiments the news service provider may have an application programming interface API that the event detecting module may use to request its services. The information relating to an identified search query category may include key words or search terms used in the search query metadata relating to the search query category or any other information about the search query category that can be used to query the third party event provider.

An item identifying module may be configured to identify data items related to one or more search query categories. In one embodiment data items related to an event determined by the event detecting module are identified by the item identifying module . The item identifying module may be configured to determine data items by querying a data item database. A data item database may be located in the item identifying module on one or more of the server machines of the publishing platform or at a remote location. For example a network marketplace platform may have one or more server machines that enable an item identifying module to determine data items related to an event or search query category. Data item databases may be automatically populated with data items by interacting with an inventory system or an information gathering system.

In another embodiment the item identifying module may be configured to determine the data items associated with an event by querying a third party data item search tool. Information relating to an event or a search query category may be used in these queries. A third party data item search tool may be provided as part of a third party merchandizing platform a marketplace platform a news service aggregator or any other third party system that can determine data items related to a search query category or event. These third party systems may provide an Application Programming Interface API that the item identifying module may use to requests its services.

A display generation module may be configured to publish data items associated with an event or search query category. In one embodiment the display generation module facilitates the display of one or more data items and information associated with the event. For example the display generation module may create a web page viewable by a user when displayed by a web browser and transmit the page to a user s web browser via a network or store the page in memory for future transmission. In another embodiment information associated with data items related to an event search queries or events may be stored in a database or sent to other systems for further processing. Information associated with the event or data items may also be displayed or stored by the display generation module . For example the data items e.g. in the form of item listings links advertisements etc. may be displayed in a way that indicates their relationship to the event along with information about the event or information such as event history or background and item summaries or reviews.

The query monitoring module may monitor the frequency of search queries associated with a search query category to determine a baseline frequency for the search query category. In one embodiment the query monitoring module monitors the frequency of search queries using search terms associated with the search query category to determine a baseline frequency for the search query category. The baseline frequency for the search query category may be determined based on the average frequency per unit of time for a searches associated with a given search query category for a certain baseline period for example the average number of searches associated with a certain search query per hour for the last week the average number of searches per day for the last month etc. or the baseline frequency may simply be the number of searches associated with a certain search query for a certain period for example the number of searches in the seven day period beginning fourteen days ago .

At operation the query monitoring module detects a change in the frequency of search queries associated with the search query category. In one embodiment detecting a change in frequency of search queries associated with the search query category involves monitoring the search request frequency of search queries using search terms associated with a search query category for a certain time frame and comparing the frequency of search queries for that time frame with the baseline time frame associated with that search query category. For example the frequency of search queries associated with the search query category over the most recent seven day period may be compared with the seven day baseline frequency for the search query category.

In another embodiment the query monitoring module may also be configured to generate a score value for one or more search query categories based on the change in the frequency of search queries using the search terms associated with the search query categories. Scoring may also be based on other factors in addition to the change in the frequency of search queries using search terms associated with the search query categories. In one example embodiment search queries may be scored based on the absolute frequency of search terms associated with the search queries. The query monitoring module may also assign the score values to each of the search query categories and rank them according to their scores. After being scored and ranked the query monitoring module may identify based on the score and rank one or more search query categories as reflecting users heightened interest in a subject.

At operation the event detecting module determines an event associated with the search query category. In one embodiment only an event related to an identified search query category is determined while in other embodiment an event related to each of the monitored search query categories is determined. The event detecting module may determine an event associated with a search query category by querying a third party event provider such as a news aggregator service with information associated with a search query category. In some instances the process of querying may be configured to conform to an API provided by the third party event provider.

An event may also be determined by querying an event database based on a search query category to determine events related to the search query category. The event database may be located in the event detecting module itself on one or more of the server machines of the publishing platform or at a remote location. As described above the event database may be automatically populated with events by interacting with a calendaring system a news provider system or a news event search tool. In response to the querying the event database returns to the event detection module an identification of an event associated with the search query category.

At operation the item identifying module identifies data items associated with the event. The item identifying module may determine data items by using a data item search tool or querying an item database based on the search query category. The item database may be located in the item identifying module on one or more of the server machines of the publishing platform or at a remote location. For example a network marketplace platform may have one or more server machines that enable the item identifying module to determine data items in the form of item listings related to an event or search query category.

At operation the display generation module facilitates the display of one or more data items and information associated with the event to a user. In one embodiment the display generation module generates a visual representation of a relationship between the one or more data items and the event. In another embodiment the display generation module creates a web page wherein when displayed the one or more data items represented on the web page appear visually related to the event. The display generation module may also transmit the web page to a user via a network. In other embodiments the display generation module transmits information associated with the event and data items to another system wherein the receiving system is to further facilitate the display of the one or more data items and information associated with the event to a user.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

Thus method and system for automatically publishing data items associated with an event were described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The various modules discussed may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of these. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

