---

title: Power-centric system management
abstract: A plurality of controllers, each coupled to a plurality of outlets, compare values assigned to characteristic parameters or “process variables” against at least one control value on the process variable. The values for the process variables are derived from at least one signal provided to corresponding controllers. At least one of the outlets at each controller is configured to selectively provide an electrical voltage from an input voltage in accordance with the comparison of the process variable values and the control value. Remotely accessible controls may be stored at the controllers which may be retrieved through respective network interfaces at the controllers. A remote processor may use the retrieved controls to remotely specify, such as over a communication network, the control values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09577473&OS=09577473&RS=09577473
owner: Electronic Systems Protection, Inc.
number: 09577473
owner_city: Zebulon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 535 105 entitled Web Enabled Power Conditioning Management System filed on Sep. 15 2011 the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Power conditioning devices or simply power conditioners are used to improve the quality of electricity provided to equipment connected thereto such as to maintain a consistent alternating current AC supply voltage in response to variations in electrical supply conditions. Power conditioners may include filter circuits to remove electrical noise from the AC supply voltage and suppressor circuits to limit transients surges in the AC supply voltage thereby preventing potentially disruptive damaging conditions from reaching connected equipment. Such power conditioners may have multiple outlets to which the equipment can be connected and through which the conditioned power may be provided. In certain systems the connected load equipment regardless of the spatial distribution of such equipment is treated as a single load e.g. a voltage surge in the supply power is prevented from entering all equipment connected to the power conditioner. While such measures are practical and even critical in certain applications adaptability and fine control afforded by conventional power conditioning systems is limited.

Spatial distribution of load equipment presents other challenges to efficient power conditioning and control such as when pieces of distributed equipment are supplied electricity from different sources. While spatial distribution may present little impediment in certain applications other applications require multiple power conditioners to protect each of multiple loads and carrying out a consistent power conditioning and control scheme over all such connected load equipment may become problematic. Moreover alerts as to critical conditions e.g. persistent supply over voltage issued from multiple spatially separated power conditioning points may delay efforts by personnel to correct such conditions. There is thus an apparent need for monitoring and control over distributed power conditioning points e.g. at individual power outlets and for means by which monitoring and control functions may be accessed and modified from a central location.

A power centric system has a plurality of outlets distributed over a spatial region at least one of which is a power outlet. Each outlet is controllable into output states in accordance with states of a corresponding controller. One or more user controls are retrieved from one or more of the controllers over a communication network by a remote processor. The retrieved user controls are used to provide data establishing state transition boundaries on process variable data. Supply voltage and other parameters are monitored by the controllers and measured values thereof are assigned to at least one process variable. The outlets are transitioned into corresponding output states based on a comparison of the process variable with a corresponding transition boundary.

The above and still further features and advantages of the present inventive concept will become apparent upon consideration of the following definitions descriptions and descriptive figures of specific embodiments thereof. While these descriptions go into specific details of certain embodiments of the inventive concept it is to be understood that variations may and do exist and will be apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of this disclosure.

The present inventive concept is best described through certain embodiments thereof which are described in detail herein with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like features throughout. It is to be understood that the term invention when used herein is intended to connote the inventive concept underlying the embodiments described below and not merely the embodiments themselves. It is to be understood further that the general inventive concept is not limited to the illustrative embodiments described below and the following descriptions should be read in such light.

Additionally the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment of construction process design technique etc. designated herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other such embodiments. Particular quality or fitness of the examples indicated herein as exemplary is neither intended nor should be inferred.

The figures described herein include schematic block diagrams illustrating various functional modules for purposes of description and explanation. Such diagrams are not intended to serve as electrical schematics and interconnections illustrated are merely to depict various interoperations between functional components and or processes and are not necessarily direct electrical connections between such components. Moreover the functionality illustrated and described via separate components need not be distributed as shown and the discrete blocks in the diagrams are not intended to depict discrete electrical components.

As used herein power conditioning refers to processing of electricity to increase its quality at a load device and to minimize the possibility of damage to both the load device and the power conditioning components upon certain characteristics of the electricity exceeding system tolerance. It is to be noted that the terms power and electricity are used herein synonymously although it is to be understood that such is not strictly the case. Electric power is the rate of transfer of electric energy whereas electricity is a phenomenon resulting from the presence and flow of electric charge. The ordinarily skilled artisan will readily ascertain the proper meaning of the terms power and electricity from the context in which the terms are used.

The system described herein is a power centric system management system where the term power centric refers to a power conditioning and control system that include features outside power conditioning and control per se but are nonetheless useful in a complete system management scheme. Such a power centric system may provide the capability to monitor and control individual power outlets and customize and or create power settings on integrated network addressable power conditioning devices via remote access. Additionally power centric management may provide control over various outlets based on externally provided signals and provide control signals to external equipment through for example custom sequences from a remote device. Users may receive notifications such as for example by suitably formatted email messages based on user defined predetermined conditions and thresholds including for example outlet status current draw power consumption and ambient temperature.

Referring first to there is illustrated an exemplary power centric management system in which power monitoring and control is conducted at various locations by local conditioning and control units CCUs representatively referred to herein as CCU s . CCUs may be communicatively coupled to a central controller over a communication network . Such communication may occur over respective communication channels representatively referred to herein as communication channel s .

By way of CCUs power delivered from power sources representatively referred to herein as power source s is conditioned and selectively output at terminals representatively referred to herein as power output terminal s . Selectivity as to the provision of power at power output terminals may be predicated upon whether signals provided at signal terminals representatively referred to herein as signal input terminal s meet certain conditions. For example certain thresholds may be placed on signals provided at signal input terminals and upon meeting threshold conditions CCU may compel power at power output terminals to be provided to a connected load not illustrated or prevented from such connection. Similarly signals may be selectively provided at signal output terminals representatively referred to herein as signal output terminal s based upon certain conditions being met at CCUs . Such signal provision may be used to control equipment not illustrated based upon for example certain threshold conditions where such equipment may or may not be involved in power distribution condition or control. It is to be understood that other signals such as those derived from voltages of power source may be used to control the provision of power at power output terminals and signal output terminals .

While CCUs may operate autonomously the parameters by which such autonomous operation proceeds at each CCU may be provided from central controller . Accordingly both independent local and interdependent global power schemes may be centrally managed across all CCUs in communication with central controller . To that end central controller may establish connections representatively referred to herein as connection s in accordance with a predetermined network protocol. As used herein a connection is an end to end flow of data carried over one or more communication channels through which information is exchanged. In certain embodiments selected CCUs communicate over an expansion connection representatively illustrated at expansion connection . As used herein an expansion connection is a communication connection between CCUs supported by communication and command protocols particular to distributed power centric system management. As such an expansion connection between one CCU and another may use communication and command protocols that are only used therein and not used in other connections .

In an example application output power terminals are distributed in accordance with the placement of equipment to which they are to provide power. One or more such distributed output power terminals may be controlled by a corresponding CCU which may or may not be proximate to the output terminals under its control. Input signals may be provided to input signal terminals such as through a wire or cable and external equipment including equipment being provided power through CCU may be connected to output signal terminals . Communications between central controller and CCUs may be established through connections over channels . In certain embodiments and or applications expansion connections such as expansion connection may be established between for example CCU and CCU . CCU may serve as an expansion unit to a master unit realized by CCU . That is CCU may be configured to communicate with CCU over expansion connection and access by central controller to CCU is provided indirectly through CCU . In so doing control over both CCUs and may be achieved through controls provided on CCU as will be discussed in detail below. However it is to be understood that central controller may access CCU directly over connection but control over both CCUs and through a single common interface at central controller would in certain embodiments occur over connection to CCU and over expansion connection between CCUs and

Load equipment not illustrated may be electrically connected to power output terminals and optionally to input signal terminals and to output signal terminals . Provided no critical errors occur as a result of such connections e.g. over voltage at the input from a source conditioned power is provided to each load through a corresponding power output terminal . Power centric parameters referred to herein as process variables including for example input and output voltages input and output current power consumption environmental conditions signals at input signal terminals etc. are continually monitored for compliance with operational specifications. The specifications on such process variables may be fixed by default such as to manufacturer s design criteria while the specifications on other process variables may be modified by the user. Upon a value of a process variable falling outside the specifications various actions may be taken where certain such actions are fixed by default e.g. automatic shutdown upon detection of the voltage provided by power source exceeding maximum tolerance and other actions may be modified by the user.

In there is illustrated an exemplary power centric conditioning and control system PCCS by which relatively local power centric control such as described above with reference to CCUs in may be implemented. PCCS may be contained in a rack mounted enclosure although many other mounting systems may be used. In one application PCCS is embodied to prevent alternating current AC supply surges and electrical transients from entering audio visual AV equipment which can disrupt sound quality and digital audio performance. PCCS may include elements that provide common mode and normal mode EMI RFI filtering inrush current elimination ICE and catastrophic over under voltage shutdown.

PCCS may be electrically coupled to a power source at input terminals L for an AC line conductor N for an AC neutral conductor and G for a ground conductor. PCCS may include a plurality of power output terminals in the form of power outlets representatively referred to herein as power outlet s from which electrical loads electrically coupled thereto draw electrical power. The input terminals L N and G and the power outlets may be accessible from the exterior of the enclosure . It is to be understood that while PCCS is illustrated as a single phase AC power conditioning and control system other input configurations including multiphase AC can be used in conjunction with the present invention without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

Power outlets may be independently controlled to for example selectively connect and disconnect the loads to and from the conditioned power based on for example values assigned to certain process variables. To that end each outlet may be controlled by an associated power outlet controller representatively referred to herein as power outlet controller s . Power outlet controller may be operated by a signal from power centric controller such as for example in response to an input voltage transient surge. Additionally power outlets may be monitored and some action may be performed based on some outlet condition such as for example disconnecting the load in response to high power consumption by a load.

In similar fashion PCCS may include plurality of signal output terminals of the form of auxiliary outlets representatively referred to herein as auxiliary outlet s . In certain embodiments auxiliary outlets include a switch mechanism such as relays representatively referred to as relay s by which signals may be provided to external equipment not illustrated . For example relays may include respective common C terminals representatively referred to herein as C terminal s normally open NO terminals representatively referred to herein as NO terminal s and normally closed NC terminals representatively referred to herein as NC terminal s . The operation of relays may be responsive to a signal from respective auxiliary controllers representatively referred to as auxiliary controller s to switch between a normally open normally closed NO NC state to a complementary open closed O C state. In certain applications a control signal connected at C terminal from for example an external device may be transferred between NO terminal and NC terminal based upon a state of auxiliary controller . The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize that switching and signaling mechanisms other than relays may be used in conjunction with the present invention without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

Power outlets and auxiliary outlets may be controlled through similar mechanisms however it is to be understood that the electrical current delivered through power outlets referred to herein as power level current may be significantly greater than the current delivered at auxiliary outlets referred to herein as signal level current. It is to be understood as well that auxiliary outlets may accommodate either AC control signals or direct current DC control signals.

Power centric controller may provide system wide power centric control in accordance with which power is provided to power outlets and with which signals are controlled at auxiliary outlets . To that end power centric controller may be provided data from sources throughout the system from which control decisions can be made. For example the input power may be conditioned by a suitable power conditioner and provided to a monitor . Monitor may in turn provide data to power centric controller indicative of voltage and or current levels of the input power. Power centric controller may compare the input power levels with decision criteria the results of such may compel appropriate action to be taken. Monitor may be similarly provided signals indicative of load power characteristics e.g. load current energy consumption etc. as well as signals from one or more environmental sensors such as those that convert temperature humidity vibration and the like into electrical signals and from other external signals provided at input signal terminals . Data indicative of such signals may be provided by monitor such as by analog to digital conversion and digital signal processing to power controller at which power centric control decisions may be made.

Power centric controller may also perform certain actions that have been programmed by a user. For example PCCS may incorporate an Application Programming Interface API comprising a set of commands and or procedures that allow a user to customize the system performance where such performance can be controlled at the outlet level. The user may utilize the API to construct a user program that establishes an action to be taken such as a change of state in at least one of the power or auxiliary outlets logging an event and or issuing alerts or alarms. A user program may include one or more program operations that compels an action in response to user defined thresholds on measured electrical power parameters environmental state external signal state or simply to define a power up or power down sequence at outlets . Other possible user programs may be created as the ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize upon review of this disclosure. The creation and use of user programs is described in more detail below.

PCCS may include a system controller or simply controller that coordinates operations between functional components thereof. For example controller may pass data and messages between components and make any cross component format translations as necessary. Additionally controller may perform numerical computations process interrupts implement timers format data for storage in storage unit retrieve data from storage unit on behalf of other functional components and perform other such system control functionality. The present invention is not limited to a particular implementation of controller such may be implemented by a wide array of suitable machine and or process control methodologies without departing from the spirit and intended scope of the present invention.

Controller may execute a debugger which may be used to identify various system problems including those that occur in a particular user program. Additionally debugger may be utilized to identify proper operation of hardware and or software of PCCS . Debugger may be activated and deactivated by a user such as a technician in accordance with properly formatted commands for such provided to controller . Debugger may be implemented in a wide array of debugger technologies as will be recognized by the ordinarily skilled artisan upon review of this disclosure.

PCCS may include a data logger to record events that occur during operation thereof. As used herein an event is a measured quantity in a process variable that exceeds the bounds established therefor. The values of process variables are assigned from measured quantities e.g. measurements of input voltage level input current level output voltage level output current level power consumption input connection polarity temperature humidity external signal level etc. and are evaluated against respective criteria at selected times. The criteria on the process variables such as numerical bounds thereon may be established by hard coded mechanisms in PCCS to for example protect sensitive system functions and or connected equipment that would be impaired if such criteria were to be exceeded. Other bounds may be established by a user through for example a user program. The crossing of these bounds constitutes an event as used herein and data logger tracks such events and stores information regarding these events in a log file in storage unit . Such a log file is exemplified in as log file . As illustrated in the figure log file contains a time date stamp indicating a time at which a corresponding event occurred an indication of a source that precipitated the event and a description of the event. For example an event may occur due to a power anomaly e.g. an input over voltage in which case the source of the event may be indicated in log file as coming from System. Other events may also be recorded in log file as well. Events occurring from manual control through a user interface may be indicated in log file as coming from Console. User program events may be indicated in log file as coming from Admin. Scheduled events may be indicated in log file to include the time at which a particular scheduled alarm was set to occur.

Periodically or upon command log file may be retrieved from storage such as by controller and provided to interested parties through a communication channel controlled by communication module . It is to be understood that an event may compel performance of some action in addition to logging the event as will be described in more detail below. Additionally logger is not limited to logging only events other data may be tracked and logged by a data logger in accordance with the application in which the present invention is embodied.

Communication module provides mechanisms by which access to PCCS may be obtained by an external device. Communication module may include transmitters receivers coders decoders modulators demodulators buffers and other such functional components to implement communications per one or more communications technologies and protocols. Such technologies and protocols may include wireless transmission and media access including radio frequency and optical transmission wired electromagnetic media access packet switched and circuit switched networks and corresponding data format and transmission protocols and so on. For purposes of description and not limitation communication module implements a serial communication interface Sx such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface and a network interface Nx such as an Ethernet interface. Through either interface Sx or Nx one or more corresponding communication channels can be constructed and communication may be carried out in end to end connections constructed in the communication channels.

PCCS may include a user interface controller to provide user controls by which a user can establish and modify PCCS operation. The present invention is not limited to a particular user interface architecture. However in typical applications the user interface affords flexible control over PCCS operations at an arbitrary point of access. To that end the user controls may be stored in onboard memory such as storage unit and retrieved through a communication channel by an external device. Accordingly such an external device can operate PCCS from anywhere provided that a communication connection can be constructed between the external device and PCCS . Such an interface may be achieved by for example Hypertext Markup Language HTML coded pages of user controls that are retrieved by requests conveyed through the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . When so embodied activation of a user control may be associated with a command that is also conveyed through HTTP.

In normal operation PCCS may receive supply power through input terminals L N and G which may be filtered and conditioned by conditioner . The conditioned supply power may then be monitored through monitor which converts the input power through a measurement of voltage and or current into a representative signal indicative thereof. Monitor may also provide representative signals indicative of for example load current draw and power consumption at outlets . The representative signals may be provided to power centric controller and used thereby to make power centric control decisions against control parameters. Additionally the representative signal from monitor may be provided to data logger which may store the input power levels in storage unit for various reports. Still further power centric controller may receive representative signals from environmental sensors and external signals via monitor which may also be used to make power centric control decisions.

Using the monitored parameters multiple and diverse control schemes may be achieved by embodiments of the present invention. For example upon the input voltage crossing a maximum safe voltage threshold level power centric controller may cause power outlet controllers to transition into a nonconductive state thereby removing unsafe voltage levels from attached loads. As another example if a load attached to corresponding power outlet is consuming power beyond an established threshold power controller may compel outlet controller to transition into a nonconductive state. In yet another example upon a determination of environmental temperature exceeding some threshold as measured by environmental sensors power centric controller may cycle the power at power outlets i.e. remove power from certain loads for a predetermined cycle time subsequent to which other loads will have power removed while the previously powered down outlets will be powered up. Such cycling may continue per for example a user programmed schedule established for over temperature conditions until the environmental temperature falls to within established limits. In each of these cases the occurrence of the event will compel indication of such to data logger which may record the occurrence of the event as described above.

It is to be understood that not all events need compel a power control action certain control parameters may be set to indicate an event that need only be logged. For example a voltage threshold may be established by a user the crossing of which by the input voltage may be logged solely for diagnostic purposes. This voltage threshold may be set to a voltage level that is below an unsafe overvoltage level and or above an unsafe undervoltage level where power control action would normally be compelled. Thus during a diagnostic phase subsequent to for example chronic unsafe overvoltage events logged data indicating a trend towards the unsafe voltage levels by way of crossing the lower voltage threshold may be useful to the technician to locate power and or equipment problems.

The control parameters against which power centric controller makes control decisions may be achieved by accessing user interface controller through a communication channel constructed through communication module . User interface controller may form a user interface on a possibly remote end user device such as a computer a cell phone and the like on which user controls are provided to make changes to the control parameters and or process variable criteria. For example one user control may allow the user to modify the aforementioned unsafe overvoltage threshold from a default value thereby creating new user programmed decision criteria. In another example user controls may be presented on the user interface by which a sequence of power related operations can be established and modified. The present invention is not limited to any set of control parameters and user controls by which such parameters are established and modified. Many alternative configurations to those illustrated and described herein can be used in conjunction with the present invention without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

In there is illustrated an exemplary power centric processor PCP by which operation and control processes described with reference to PCCS in can be carried out. PCP may include a processor such as a microprocessor or microcontroller a memory subsystem communicatively coupled to processor and an input output I O subsystem communicatively coupled to processor . Additionally PCP may include one or more analog circuits by which controller inputs may be measured. For example analog circuits may include one or more power sensors that may be used to obtain signal representations of input power e.g. input voltage and or input current and signal representations of outlet power e.g. outlet voltage and or outlet load current. Such signal representations may be achieved by for example rectification of the supply AC voltage and converting the resulting DC voltage into a sequence of numerical samples through the use of an analog to digital converter A D representatively illustrated at A D converter . In certain embodiments additional circuitry and or processes carried out on processor such as digital signal processing DSP process may be used to determine a root mean squared RMS value from the sinusoidal waveform of the supply AC voltage. Analog circuits may also include environmental sensors such as thermocouples digital thermometers humidity sensors accelerometers acoustic transducers and the like by which the environment within and surrounding PCCS can be monitored. Such transducers produce an electrical signal indicative of the environmental variable for which they are adapted and the electrical signals may be converted into a sequence of numerical samples by another A D converter . Additional analog circuitry may be implemented to accept external signals as illustrated by external signals circuit block .

Analog circuits may produce values for process variables on which proper power control depends. Based on the values for the process variables the control of power centric systems is achieved through power control circuits which may include switches and relays and or semiconductor switch devices that electrically connect outlets to the corresponding electrical source. Similarly auxiliary control circuits which may include switches and relays and semiconductor devices may also be operated in accordance with the values assigned to the process variables.

I O subsystem may be implemented in hardware and software to implement an interface between external systems and processor . Exemplary I O subsystem includes a network port such as an Ethernet port for communications with a communications network a serial port through which serial communications can be conducted and a general access port which may be used for connecting specialized equipment computer peripherals and the like. For example access port may be configured to provide signals to controls and indicators such as external switches and the like audible buzzers sirens and the like and indicators such as lamps light emitting diodes LEDs and the like. Such controls and indicators may provide visual and audible notification of operations of PCCS and of events detected thereby and may accept user input through signals from switches potentiometers etc. included in controls and indicators .

I O subsystem may afford communications with a variety of external communication devices. For example a local interface device may implement a simple terminal through serial port by which among other things diagnostic operations can be performed. As another example a remote processor such as end user device may be communicatively coupled to PCP through network port through which a communication channel may be constructed in a wider network operating under for example the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite. The present invention is not limited to specific communication techniques and protocols and the ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize numerous such communication techniques that may be used in conjunction with the present invention without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

End user device may include a user interface that includes a display and a set of Human Interface Devices HIDs . Additionally end user device may include a processor and storage by which a program may be executed to interact with PCP through user interface process as will be described in more detail below.

Memory subsystem may be segmented into a code segment in which to store processor instructions and data segment in which to store variable data. Processor may be configured to execute the processor instructions stored in code segment to thereby carry out various processes implementing the processing control functionality of PCCS . For example processor may execute DSP code to carry out DSP process system code to carry out system control process power auxiliary control code to carry out power centric control process user interface code to carry out user interface process data logger code to carry out data logger process debugger code to carry out debugger process and communication code to carry out communication process .

DSP process may perform signal processing and mathematical operations on digital data generated from A D and other digital signals. Such processing may include without being limited to RMS calculations digital filtering and data averaging. The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize and appreciate a wide variety of DSP techniques that can be incorporated into embodiments of the present invention without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

System control process may implement the functionality of system controller in . System control process may in addition to those functions described above with regard to controller allocate memory allocate processor time coordinate time sharing among processes executing on processor and other such tasks as required to provide a stable data processing and control platform for purposes of power centric control. System control process may store the processor state during context switching and the like as well as other variable data in data segment as representatively illustrated at system data storage location . The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize numerous system control methodologies that may be used in conjunction with the present invention without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

Data logger process may implement the functionality of data logger in that is monitoring various inputs and system states that have been selected for debug tracking formatting data indicative of characteristics of such inputs and system states in accordance with a predetermined data format and storing the formatted data in memory such as debug data in data memory segment .

Communication process cooperates with the communication ports in subsystem to implement the procedures required for carrying out communications over a communication channel via the corresponding port or . Communication process may for example perform data encoding and decoding buffer overflow control and the like. Buffers and network stacks may be allocated in data segment representatively illustrated at communication data storage location .

In certain embodiments communication process may implement an expansion protocol referred to herein as Inter Device Exchange Protocol IDEP by which communications between a master PCCS and an expansion PCCS are conducted such as described above with reference to CCUs and in . IDEP allows control of expansion PCCS by a master PCCS using less overhead than would be required if such control were to be conducted through a standard network protocol e.g. the Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite. IDEP may thus be deployed in a local area network setting and may have a payload format and content that is particular to power centric system control and reporting. For example IDEP may implement a simple command scheme e.g. code words and a local addressing scheme such that commands can be conveyed over a local area network in compact packages. Additionally IDEP may be extendable so that as new features are added to the present invention system developers need only add the code for the new feature without changes to the transport mechanisms.

Communication process may also implement Internet Engineering Task Force IETF RFC 5424 i.e. the Syslog protocol by which notifications to external parties may be conveyed. Buffers and network stacks for IDEP and Syslog as well any other protocol that may be used e.g. Telnet and Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP may be allocated in data segment such as in communication data storage location .

Debugger process may implement the functionality of the debugger by which processor states process states power control states and the like may be tracked and stored as debug data location in data segment for system diagnostics. Debugger process may be accessed and controlled through serial port . Through serial protocol commands for example debug levels may be selected debug commands may be issued and debug data may be obtained and viewed. The types of data that may be tracked by debugger process will vary with the application in which the invention is embodied. The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize various techniques and data by which a debugger may be implemented in PCCS .

Power centric control process may implement the functionality of power centric controller outlet controllers and auxiliary outlet controllers in PCCS . In certain embodiments power centric control process implements a state machine to be described with reference to .

As illustrated in changes in state occur in PV State space where a process variable attains specified values referred to herein as state transition boundaries or simply transition boundaries. Transition boundaries may be defined through for example threshold values on the process variable. For example if space corresponds to conductive states at a particular outlet outlet for example as a function of for example supply input voltage of a power source transition boundary may correspond to a minimum input voltage threshold at which outlet transitions into a non conducting state that disconnects an attached load from power source . Transition boundary may correspond to a maximum input voltage threshold at which outlet is transitioned into non conducting state as well. When the process operates nominally e.g. when the input voltage is between Value and Value outlet may be in a conducting state in which the load is connected to power source . Power centric control process may remain in one state conducting state for example until the input voltage process variable takes on a value corresponding to a transition boundary maximum input voltage transition boundary for example. When such value has been reached power centric control process may transition to non conducting state . The values assigned to process variable and the state of the process for any value of process variable defines a path in PV State space referred to herein as a process trajectory . It is to be understood that power centric control process may embody multiple PV State spaces each with a corresponding process trajectory .

In certain embodiments process trajectory includes multiple routes between states . For example process trajectory may define a hysteresis curve where the process will remain in one state over a range of values taken on by the process variable until another transition boundary is encountered. Using the input voltage example described earlier power centric process may remain in non conducting state having transitioned into that state upon input voltage reaching transition boundary until the input voltage drops to a lower value Value for example corresponding to transition boundary . At transition boundary power centric control process may compel outlet into conducting state and remain in conducting state until a transition boundary is encountered. In certain embodiments the distance between routes in hysteresis process trajectory representatively illustrated as distances Hand H are user selectable values as will be described below.

Process trajectory may traverse routes that do not coincide with the plane illustrated in i.e. the plane coinciding with the drawing sheet. State for example may correspond to a state in which some action other than compelling outlet to conduct or not conduct is performed. Such actions may include issuing an alert making a log entry outputting a control signal at one or more signal output terminals and so on. Numerous actions and corresponding states may be implemented in embodiments of the present invention without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof.

It is to be understood that transition boundaries other than threshold values may be used in embodiments of the present invention such as the occurrence of an event triggered by a specified condition. The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize numerous other state transition conditions upon review of this disclosure.

In there is illustrated an exemplary power centric control state machine that may be implemented by power centric control process . It is to be understood that state machine depicts a simplified configuration of a possibly much more complex power control system. The exemplary process illustrated in is provided for purposes of explanation of possible scenarios that may be encountered in an embodiment of the present invention. The ordinarily skilled artisan will appreciate other possible scenarios that may be implemented by way of the present invention upon review and understanding of this disclosure.

In an initial state PCCS is initialized with initial values of control parameters that define the state transition boundaries of state machine . State machine then transitions into a Run state and remains in Run state as long as all process variables e.g. voltage current temperature humidity input signal state etc. are within operational bounds thereon established as nominal for normal operation. State machine may transition out of Run state upon a process event or upon being compelled into a Terminal state upon an Exit event which may occur upon ceasing control operations such as by removing system operating power from PCCS . As used herein a process event occurs when a value of a process variable exceeds a state transition boundary defining the event. Process events may include ENTRY events Non critical events NCE Critical events CRIT Programmed PROG events and Completion events COMP . The transition boundaries defining these events may be appropriately established based on the severity of the consequences of crossing the boundary. It is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the foregoing events. Indeed embodiments of the invention that allow flexible programming of the state transition boundaries afford an essentially unlimited number of events and corresponding states.

State machine may include a set of outlet state machines including one or more outlet state machines representatively illustrated at outlet state machine . Outlet state machine may be configured as for example a power state machine by which the state of one or more power outlets is controlled or as an auxiliary outlet state machine by which the state of one or more auxiliary outlets is controlled. Outlet state machine may comprise a State C at which the outlet conducts and a State N at which the outlet does not conduct. In the case of power outlet state machines State C corresponds to a conductive state in which conditioned power is provided to a load and a State N corresponds to a non conductive state in which power is removed from the load. In the case of auxiliary outlet state machines State C corresponds to a relay closed state i.e. the NO contacts are closed and State N corresponds to a relay open state i.e. the NO contacts are open. The state machines in set may operate by similar mechanisms and as such the state machines will be representatively referred to herein as state machine s where such state machines need not be distinguished one from another.

Each outlet state machine is operable into one of states independently of the state or state transitions of other of the state machines . The outlet state machine remains in the state into which it was most recently transitioned while state machine is in Run state . Then depending on the process event that causes state machine to transition out of Run state one or more outlet state machines may receive a Compel Open CO event which compels outlet state machine into State N or a Compel Closed CC event which compels outlet state machine into State C .

Upon an ENTRY event state machine may transition into Log state in which certain information such as the values of the process variables that triggered the ENTRY event the time of the event and so on are stored in log memory location by data logger process . Thus the state transition boundaries for an ENTRY event may be at any arbitrary value of any process variable. However to maximize the ratio of useful information to the amount of storage required for logging data the transition boundaries for an ENTRY event may be established at levels that may indicate potential problems in PCCS operation in power source quality and or in one or more loads connected to PCCS . Once the pertinent data have been logged a COMP event occurs at which point state machine transitions into Run state .

An NCE event may occur upon detection of anomalies that require corrective action but do not rise to the level of imminent equipment damage or system failure. In response to an NCE event state machine may transition into Transition Necessary state at which one or more outlet state machines receive a CO event and transition into State N as necessary to counteract the anomaly. The selection of which outlet state machines are compelled into State N depends upon the circumstances surrounding the occurrence of the NCE event. For example if the NCE event is caused by power consumption of one of the loads exceeding the transition boundary assigned thereto the power outlet state machine controlling the outlet to which the offending load is connected may transition into the Non conductive state to the exclusion of any other of the outlet state machines . As another example if the NCE event is caused by environmental temperature exceeding the transition boundary established therefor certain of the power outlet state machines may transition into Non conductive state in accordance with a predetermined power down scheme devised for reducing temperature. In certain cases power outlet state machines may alternately cycle between Non conductive state and Conductive state in counter cycle with other power outlet state machines . Once the conditions that caused the NCE event have been cleared a COMP event may occur whereby state machine is compelled back into Run state . The ordinarily skilled artisan will readily recognize other useful NCE events and power centric control schemes including the use of auxiliary outlets to control or otherwise signal external equipment that can be used to counter act such events upon review of this disclosure.

In certain applications state transition boundaries on process variables may be established to trigger a CRIT event at which time immediate system wide action should be taken to prevent system failure or equipment damage. In such an event state machine may transition into Open All state which compels a CO event in all power outlet state machines without necessarily affecting the state of auxiliary outlet state machines . Such a CRIT event may occur for example when an overvoltage of sufficient magnitude threatens not only all loads but PCCS as well. Once the offending process variables have returned to Nominal a COMP event may drive state machine into Run state . The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize other criticalities that can be anticipated by prudent selection of state transition boundaries on the appropriate process variables.

As discussed above arbitrary power control and system behavior of certain embodiments of the present invention may be achieved by user programming. During execution of such a user program a PROG event may compel state machine into Transition Selected state . In Transition Selected state outlet state machines selected per the user program may be transitioned into either State C or State N . Once the selected outlet state machines arrive at the selected state a COMP event may occur and state machine may transition into Run state . Certain user programs may comprise a number of program steps where a first step is executed upon entry into Transition Selected state in response to a PROG event. Upon the subsequent COMP event Run state is entered followed by a PROG event compelling the next step in the sequence. At each state in the sequence one or more CO and CC events may be compelled in outlet state machines . Accordingly numerous power up power down and signaling procedures can be implemented. User programs may be created as will be described below and stored in a memory location in data segment .

It is to be understood that are conceptual diagrams the same processes described through state transitions of a state machine may also be described through other conceptual drawings such as flow charts. That is the present invention is not limited to state machine embodiments embodiments can be realized in a variety of ways such as for example through hardware including fixed and programmable logic and a combination of hardware and software such as by a microprocessor executing programmed processor instructions.

Returning once again to user interface process may provide remote access to memory location through I O . That is user control instructions in memory location may be retrieved by for example end user device through user interface process . Once retrieved the user control instructions may be stored in storage unit and executed by processor to generate a user control on UI . Through the generated user control various parameters may be established set and modified by manipulation thereof through HIDs .

In certain embodiments various operations of system control process user interface process and communication process may be coordinated to implement a Web server by which user control instructions are retrievable from memory through a properly formatted HTTP request. The user control instructions may include HTML compliant web pages having controls suitably embedded therein. Such embedded controls may be implemented by a suitable processor executable instruction set such as HTML form instructions Perl Java Javascript etc. Through the user controls in UI the end user device may alter power control data and auxiliary control data such as through another suitably formatted HTTP request. The ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize other techniques by which a remote processor such as end user device may set power control data and auxiliary control data including by other application network protocols or dedicated communication sessions through a specialized interface.

Various user controls will now be described with reference to Web pages illustrated in . It is to be understood that such implementation of the user controls is but one example of realizing remote control of PCCS . Moreover it is to be understood that the description of the user controls carries with it the implication of the underlying processing infrastructure by which the corresponding control functions are implemented where the ordinarily skilled artisan will recognize such underlying processing infrastructure for each such user control from the descriptions above.

The Global View page displays the current outlet states and system status for a PCCS and any expansion units. Expansion units may be set up on the Links Setup page described below. Power outlets in this case outlets and auxiliary outlets in this case Aux and Aux may be selected by selection control and subsequently commanded to turn On State C by activation of On control Off State N by activation of Off control or Reboot State N pause State C or alternatively State C pause State N by activation of Reboot control for multiple PCCS units for example one 1 master Studio for example and a number of expansion units Recording for example. In certain embodiments the number of total units is fixed such as to be limited to for example sixteen 16 units. In certain embodiments a user must have access credentials e.g. a qualified username and password at each expansion PCCS that is to be managed in order to have rights to control the expansion unit outlets. Other security measures may be implemented as well. For example communications between a master PCCS and its expansion PCCSs may be encrypted using the same encryption key i.e. each expansion PCCS must be configured to use the same encryption key as its master PCCS. In certain embodiments each expansion PCCS must communication on the same protocol port with its master PCCS. However it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to any particular security scheme or manner by which communications between PCCSs are secured and or isolated.

The Device View page shown in provides information and status for a particular PCCS as a whole as well as for certain features such as the status of individual outlets. Device View page may provide basic control of individual outlets as well. A status panel provides system status through for example Overall System control which indicates whether the surge protection rack temperature line voltage and current draw are at acceptable levels. Surge Protection control indicates whether the surge protection is fully functional. Rack Temperature control displays the temperature indicated to by a sensor connected to for example a terminal block on enclosure . If the temperature sensor is not connected the temperature control may display NC for Not Connected. Line Voltage control displays a true RMS AC input voltage. Current Draw control displays the total current draw of all 8 receptacles in true RMS amperes. For each power outlet the Outlet Name Present State On Off Current Draw Power Draw and Energy Usage are displayed on Device View Page . Similar information is provided for the auxiliary outlets. To refresh the status information a Refresh control may be activated. Power Draw control displays the total power draw of all 8 receptacles in Watts. Links control may be provided for convenient navigation to locations on the network e.g. other devices and or favorite locations as described below with reference to .

Complete setup and configuration of the PCCS is provided via several Setup web pages Device setup page in configures basic device parameters Network setup page in configures network settings including the network adapter email and time keeping Network Reporting setup page in configures SNMP IDEP and Syslog reporting and User setup pages and illustrated in configure user accounts. Triggers setup pages and illustrated in which configure system triggers and creates and modifies user triggers and Sequences setup pages and illustrated in which creates and modifies custom Sequences allow a user to create user programs in the form of event definition and step sequencing. Links setup pages and illustrated in create and modify Expansion unit links and Favorite links.

Device Setup page in allows for the specification of basic device parameters Device Name control specifies the name label to be associated with the PCCS Power Up Delay Time control specifies the amount of time in seconds by which to stagger the manual turning on of multiple outlets Reboot Time control specifies the amount of time an outlet is to remain off during a Reboot operation Temperature Display control specifies whether to display temperature in degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius User Accounts May Clear Shutdown control specifies whether a non administrative user is allowed to manually clear a persistent shutdown state Serial Baud Rate control specifies the baud rate to be used with the serial communication interface Serial Port Requires Login control specifies whether a serial communication session such as through a terminal device requires a user login operation Auto Logout control specifies the communication security timeout in minutes Use History Logging control specifies whether to maintain an internal log file Allow Firmware Upgrade control specifies whether the PCCS is in an upgradeable state Outlet Name controls allow for the specification of name labels for each outlet Initial State controls specifies the initial state of the corresponding outlet following a loss of power or the clearing of a shutdown event and ICE control specifies whether to activate inrush current elimination.

Network Setup page in allows for the specification of network settings including the network adapter email and time keeping. IP Setup control specifies whether to use Static or Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP for IP addresses. IP Address control specifies the IP address of the PCCS when in Static mode and displays the assigned IP address when in DHCP mode. Subnet Mask control specifies the subnet mask to be used when in Static mode and displays the assigned mask when in DHCP mode. Gateway control specifies the gateway address to be used when in Static mode and displays the assigned gateway address when in DHCP mode. DNS control and DNS control specify the first and second Domain Name System DNS server addresses respectively to be used when in Static mode and displays the acquired addresses when in DHCP mode. Web HTTP Port control specifies the port on which the internal Web server will communicate. Web HTTPS Port control specifies the port on which the Web server will communicate when using Secure Socket Layer SSL encryption. SSL Required control specifies whether the internal Web server is to use secure SSL encryption. Enable Telnet control specifies whether to enable the internal Telnet server. Telnet Port control specifies the port on which the internal telnet server will communicate. Enable Email control specifies whether to enable the sending of email messages. Email Server control specifies the IP Address of the Simple Mail Transport Protocol SMTP or the Extended SMTP ESMTP server to be used. Login Name control specifies the username for the mail server and Login Password control specifies the password for the email server. Return Address control specifies the return address of the internal email client. Auto Retry control specifies the number of transmission attempts prior to reporting the failed email transmission. Test Email control sends a test email message to the specified address. Set Time control specifies whether to use Manual or the Network Time Protocol NTP timekeeping. SNTP Server control specifies the address of the internet time server when using NTP mode. Time Zone Offset control specifies the time zone in which the PCCS is located. Use DST control specifies whether to automatically adjust for Daylight Savings Time. DST Start Date control specifies the Month Week Day and Time that DST starts and DST Stop Date control specifies the Month Week Day and Time that DST ends. Manual Time Set specifies the starting date and time when using Manual mode.

Network Reporting Setup page in allows for the configuration of the Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP IDEP and Syslog reporting. Enable SNMP control specifies whether to enable the SNMP v2c agent. Read Community control specifies the SNMP read community string. Write Community control specifies the SNMP write community string. SNMP Managers control specifies IP addresses for multiple SNMP managers. Traps Sent control specifies which specific SNMP traps are to be sent. IDEP Port control specifies the port to be used with the IDEP exchange protocol under which an expansion connection may be constructed and maintained. IDEP Manager control specifies the IP address of the IDEP manager. IDEP Status Broadcast control specifies whether to enable a status broadcast and the frequency of the broadcast messages in minutes. IDEP Event Reporting control specifies which types of events result in automatic and unsolicited transmission of information to the master PCCS. IDEP Encryption control specifies whether to use Advanced Encryption Standard AES encryption with a shared passphrase. Syslog Port control specifies the port to be used with a Syslog server. Syslog Server control specifies the IP address of a Syslog server.

Users Setup page in allows for the creation deletion and editing of up to 8 user accounts. New User control instantiates an Edit User page illustrated in by which each user is assigned a unique username through username control and password through password control . The user s password may be confirmed via confirmation control . The username and password may control access to the PCCS through for example a login page not illustrated . Edit user page may further include an email control by which the user s email address may be entered. Additionally edit user page may include an outlet access control by which the user may be assigned access to specific outlet s such as by activating a corresponding check box in access control .

User accounts may be of the Administrator or User type where Administrators have access to all functions and Users are excluded from access to Setup functions. To assign Administrator access rights to a user administrator control may be activated into a checked state. If administrator control is not in the checked state the user has only User access. Once the user account data has been entered save control may be actuated and accordingly the user account is activated. A close control may be incorporated to exit the edit user page without saving the entries or changes made.

The Triggers Setup pages and illustrated in respectively allow for the modification of System Triggers and creation of User Triggers. System Triggers define the protective shutdown points for the AC outlets and take precedence over all other actions including User Triggers. Hysteresis controls specify the amount closer to nominal by which the associated process variable must return following the activation of a System Trigger for the condition to be considered clear. Using an over voltage shutdown point of 150V and a hysteresis of 7 as an example the PCCS will enter a shutdown state when the line voltage exceeds 150V and will not leave the shutdown state until the line voltage drops below 150V 7V 143V. Over Voltage Auto Shutdown control immediately shuts off all power outlets if the AC line voltage rises above the set value. In certain embodiments by default this feature cannot be disabled. Under Voltage Auto Shutdown control shuts off all power outlets if the AC line voltage falls below the set value. Over Current Auto Shutdown control shuts off all power outlets if the total current draw exceeds the set value. Once this has been triggered the PCCS may stay in a persistent shutdown state until manually cleared by an authorized user. Over Temperature Auto Shutdown control shuts off all outlets if the temperature sensed by a connected temperature sensor exceeds the set value. Once this has been triggered the PCCS may stay in a persistent shutdown state until manually cleared by an authorized user. Self Test Failure Auto Shutdown control shuts off all outlets in the event that the internal surge protection circuitry fails. Once this has been triggered the PCCS may stay in a persistent shutdown state until manually cleared by an authorized user.

User defined triggers that have previously been created are displayed in a list control . A new user trigger may be defined by activating New User Trigger control which instantiates Edit Trigger page illustrated in .

Trigger Name control allows a User defined trigger to be given a meaningful name. Trigger Type control allows for the definition of the user defined trigger via Type control Condition control and Set point control . For triggers of the type Threshold selected through Type control several conditions can be selected through Condition control such as Temperature High which is triggered upon Temperature Set Point and clears when TempSet Point and clears when VoltageSet Point and clears when CurrentSet Point and is cleared when Current

For each user defined trigger the user may select one or more actions to be taken such as those actions previously described upon the trigger condition and the clear condition through Action control .

Sequences Setup pages and illustrated in respectively allow for the creation and modification of sequences. A sequence is a list of outlets including auxiliary outlets that will be turned On Off or Rebooted in a predetermined order with a specified delay time between each sequence step. Sequences previously established are presented in a list control . As illustrated in a sequence entitled All Off may define a sequencing of outlets culminating in the shutdown of all outlets. A similar sequence entitled All On may activate all outlets in a defined sequence. Sequences may be modified through modification controls . To execute a sequence such as to test its operation Run control may be activated. To delete a sequence Delete control may be activated. To edit an existing sequence Edit control may be activated. To create a new sequence New Sequence control may be activated. The activation of either Edit control or New Sequence control will instantiate Edit Sequence page illustrated in .

The new sequence may be given a unique meaningful name through Sequence Name control for example All On All Off or Stage Equipment On . Each step in a sequence may be defined through Step controls which may include a Pause control by which a time delay may be specified. The time delay may be specified from the previous sequence item. For example creating a sequence with Step 1 1 second Outlet On and Step 2 1 second Outlet On will turn on Outlet after 1 second and Outlet on 1 second after Outlet has turned on. Outlet control may be provided by which a particular outlet targeted by the step may be selected and an Action control may be provided by which the step action may be selected. Example actions may include turning the target outlet off turning the target outlet on or rebooting the target outlet. Once a sequence has been saved such as by actuating Save control a control making it available for execution may be provided at for example the bottom of the Device View page illustrated in . In certain embodiments a user program may be created where a sequence may be selected as an action by control when creating or editing a User Trigger.

Links Setup pages and illustrated in respectively allow for the setup of PCCS expansion units listed in list as one or more established expansion units and the setup of Web Favorites listed in list as one or more established favorites . Expansion units are other PCCS units which will be available for monitoring and control on the Global View page of the master PCCS unit. Favorites may be any internet address and may be used to set up shortcuts to earlier versions of the PCCS functionality other equipment Web servers or Internet web pages. A new expansion unit may be added to the list by activating New Expansion Unit control and a new Favorite may be added by New Favorite control . Activating either of controls or instantiates an Edit control which for purposes of explanation is illustrated in as an Edit Favorite control. Edit control may include a Name control to provide the Favorite with a meaningful name and an address field to specify a URL of the Favorite. Saved Expansions and Favorites may be made available in the Links subsection of Device View page illustrated in .

Having described preferred embodiments of new and improved power centric conditioning and control techniques it is believed that other modifications variations and changes will be suggested to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings set forth herein. It is therefore to be understood that all such variations modifications and changes are believed to fall within the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

