---

title: Mining semi-structured social media
abstract: Methods and apparatus for analysis of semi-structured social media are described. A method comprises classifying a plurality of user-generated content entries into a plurality of categories based at least in part on an analysis of respective structured components of at least a subset of the plurality of entries. The method further includes determining, based at least in part on an analysis of additional components of entries of a particular category, a set of representative content elements of entries of the particular category, and generating a report that comprises one or more representative content elements of the particular category.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09002852&OS=09002852&RS=09002852
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09002852
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121115
---
In recent years interactive Internet based platforms that enable individuals to share discuss and respond to user generated content have become more and more popular. Such platforms which are often referred to using the term social media have in come cases attracted hundreds of millions of registered users worldwide within a decade. The total number of user generated content entries such as product and service reviews user status updates micro blog entries and the like has grown correspondingly and continues to grow rapidly. A number of the vendors providing social media platforms have attempted to monetize some of the user generated content for example by attempting to target advertisements to users deemed likely to be interested in the corresponding products or services.

Several types of user generated content especially on review web sites may contain data that can potentially be useful to various business entities in ways not directly related to advertising e.g. in understanding which products or services are working well and which need to be modified or in identifying the specific nature of the shortcomings in their current portfolios of products and services. However because of the unstructured nature of at least some parts of the content and because of the rapid rate at which the content is growing it may not be straightforward to extract useful insights that could in principle be obtained from user generated feedback.

Various embodiments of methods and apparatus for mining semi structured social media are described. According to one embodiment a computer implemented method may include classifying a plurality of user generated content entries into a plurality of categories based at least in part on an analysis of respective structured components of at least a subset of the plurality of entries. The method may include determining based at least in part on an analysis of additional components of entries of a particular category a set of representative user generated content elements of entries of the particular category. The method may further comprise generating a report that includes one or more of the representative user generated content elements of the set.

Various embodiments of methods and apparatus for mining of semi structured social media are described. According to some embodiments one or more computing devices may be configured to implement a tool for analysis of user generated content entries obtainable from one or more social media platforms. At least some of the content entries may address one or more topic of interest to one or more entities such as businesses political parties governmental agencies and the like e.g. a restaurant may be interested in user generated reviews a political party may be interested in policy discussions and so on. Accordingly the analysis tool may be utilized by such entities. The tool which may be referred to herein as a content analyzer may be responsible for collecting the user generated content entries from a variety of data sources such as public or private web sites or databases using a variety of techniques. The content analyzer may collect user generated content entries that include both structured components e.g. elements such as numerical ratings provided by users as feedback for a particular service or product as well as unstructured components such as text comments of arbitrary length in some embodiments. The content analyzer may in at least some embodiments examine the structured components of content entries to classify at least some of the entries into categories such as in one simple example positive and negative review categories for a particular product or service . The content analyzer may perform analysis of the additional components e.g. the unstructured text comments of the entries of one or more categories in such embodiments to identify representative content elements such as frequent word combinations or phrases for example using statistical or semantic analyses. The representative content elements corresponding to at least some of the categories may be provided in a report to one or more clients of the content analyzer such as the providers of the services or products on which user generated comments or feedback was generated in some embodiments.

The content analyzer may collect or obtain the content entries from the data sources using a variety of approaches in different embodiments. Some data sources in the depicted embodiment may implement or support public or private application programming interfaces APIs which may be invoked to retrieve the content entries e.g. in XML extensible markup language or JSON JavaScript Object Notation format. Other data sources may provide user generated entries on web pages from which the contents may be retrieved in some implementations using web scraping or screen scraping techniques. For example in one embodiment a tool that retrieves the HTML HyperText Markup Language or XHTML Extensible HyperText Markup Language component of a web page containing user generated content entries may be employed and the retrieved markup language may be parsed to separate the various structured elements of the user generated content from the unstructured elements. In one implementation the user generated data may be collected in image format e.g. in a bitmap and analyzed using optical character recognition techniques. In at least some embodiments the social media data source may itself store the user generated content entries in a database such as a relational database management system RDBMS or a non relational or NoSQL database management system and the content analyzer may be enabled to submit database queries using any appropriate query language to retrieve the entries . In at least some embodiments a social media data source may be maintained by a particular business entity such as an Internet based retailer that collects user feedback on its products or services. Such an entity may wish to utilize the functionality of the content analyzer and may expose programmatic interfaces allowing the content analyzer to extract the user feedback for which analysis is desired.

In the embodiment shown in the content analyzer may be configured to classify collected user generated content entries into a plurality of categories. Categories may be defined based on a number of different criteria in different embodiments such as the kinds of structured content components available the total number of entries to be analyzed or specific guidance provided by clients e.g. client A B or C of the content analyzer. In at least one embodiment the structured part of the user generated content entries associated with a particular service or product may include a rating value provided by the users and the range of rating values detected in the entries or the range allowed in the rating scheme may be used to categorize the entries. For example in one implementation the set of entries collected for a particular restaurant may include a rating between one and five stars for the restaurant. In such a scenario a given entry may be classified as a positive entry the user specified four or five stars and as a negative entry if the user specified one or two stars. Entries in which the user specified three stars may be classified as neutral in some such implementations or three star entries may simply be discarded for the purpose of analysis as they may be assumed to provide less useful feedback than the more extreme positive and more extreme negative entries. In some embodiments the structured components of user generated content entries focused on feedback may comprise elements different from absolute ratings e.g. in some embodiments users may provide rankings e.g. relative ordering of a product or service instead of ratings and the rankings may be used for classification of the entries. It is noted that while in some of the following description user generated content entries focused on feedback such as ratings and rankings are provided as examples the functionality of content analyzer described herein is not limited to feedback related entries. The content analyzer may be employed to analyze various types of user generated content including content that does not comprise specific feedback indicators such as ratings or rankings such as blog or microblog entries describing various activities users perform music users listen to and so forth in various embodiments.

In at least some embodiments structured components other than ratings or rankings may be used for classification. For example a particular business entity may have launched a marketing campaign or implemented a change in strategy on a particular date and the user generated entries may be classified into pre launch and post launch categories in the case of the marketing campaign or into pre strategy change and post strategy change categories in the case of the change in strategy. Content entries may also be classified based on the dates on which they were created based on the geographic locale e.g. city state region or country in which a service or product being discussed was provided or based on other demographic information regarding the users that generated the content such as the geographic locations of the users their ages income levels gender and so on in scenarios where such demographic information can be obtained or estimated . In some embodiments the users or customers of a given product service or business may be classified into groups based on their behavior such as frequent buyers versus occasional buyers anonymous clients versus registered clients customers who spend more than X per month on a service versus customers who spend less than X frequent user club members versus non members and so on. Such user groups may be used to classify the content entries in some embodiments for example entries from customers that spend more than 500 per month on a given service may be classified in first category and entries from customers than spend less than 100 on the given service may be classified in a second category. In at least some embodiments some of the structured data that can be used to classify the entries may have to be inferred or deduced by the content analyzer e.g. a particular user may not necessarily identify themselves as spending more than 500 per month in any given content entry but the amount spent may be determined or estimated based on various other content entries generated by the same user.

Having partitioned the content entries into categories based at least in part on some of the structured components of the entries the content analyzer may in some embodiments proceed to analyze the additional unstructured components of the entries of a given category e.g. to identify representative elements such as frequent word combinations or phrases in scenarios where the unstructured components comprise natural language text. In some implementations the analysis of the unstructured content may involve one or more preliminary conversion steps e.g. if the unstructured component includes video or audio comments text may have to be extracted from the video or audio. The unstructured components of the entries may be analyzed using either a statistical approach a semantics based approach or a combination of statistics and semantic analysis in different embodiments. For example in one implementation the content analyzer may first classify a data set of review entries for a particular restaurant into a positive review set P and a negative review set N based on the number of stars a structured component of the reviews assigned to the restaurant. Then the unstructured components of P s entries may be examined separately from the unstructured components of N s entries.

Each of P s and N s entries may be processed via an analysis pipeline comprising a number of steps in one embodiment such as tokenization stemming stop word removal n gram computation part of speech tagging and chunking. Tokenization may comprise extracting elements such as words and separators such as periods commas other punctuation marks paragraph boundaries and the like. Stemming may include reducing derived words to their stem base or root word for example the words order orders ordered ordering re order taken from restaurant reviews may all be reduced to the word order . In a stop words removal step words that are assumed not to be significant to the meaning of a type of content entry such as the is at which or on may be filtered out of the unstructured components. The stop words that are used may differ for different product types of service types in some implementations e.g. some words that may be considered not especially relevant to airline reviews may be considered more relevant for gardening service reviews so different sets of stop words may be removed for airline related content entries than the set of stop words removed from the gardening service reviews. N gram computation may involve identification of repeated occurrences of N consecutive words or tokens in the text. As the name implies part of speech tagging may involve identifying the particular part of speech such as noun verb adjective etc. for which a token is being used in a given context. Chunking may involve combining tokens to form noun phrases verb phases and the like. In some embodiments other natural language processing techniques than those described above may be used. The analysis of the unstructured components and the structured components of the content entries may be performed using any appropriate programming or scripting language in various embodiments.

As a result of the analysis of the unstructured components of the content entries for each of the categories of interest the content analyzer may obtain a collection of representative elements such as frequent word combinations or phrases corresponding to each category in some embodiments. It is noted that although frequent word combinations are provided as an example of the types of representative elements that the content analyzer may find in much of the following description other types of representative content elements may be determined by the analyzer in different embodiments. For example in some embodiments user generated content may include graphical elements such as emoticons or other types of non textual symbols sounds videos or images and the representative elements for a given category may comprise such non text symbols or combinations of text and non textual symbols. The content analyzer may then prepare a report which may be termed a feedback report in cases where feedback focused content is being analyzed that includes the representative content elements for one or more categories such as report A prepared for client A of report B for client B or report C for client C. In a simple implementation a given report may comprise a definition of one or more categories of user generated content e.g. the definitions of positive and negative restaurant reviews as well as a listing of the representative or frequent elements found for each of the categories. In scenarios where the report comprises frequent word combinations the frequent word combinations may be sorted within the report based on various criteria in different embodiments. In one implementation the combinations may be ranked based on their frequency of occurrence or based on their correlation with the extent of positive or negative feedback in their containing content entries e.g. word combinations that occurred frequently in 5 star reviews may be ordered above word combinations that occurred frequently in 4 star reviews . In some embodiments a report may include additional details such as context information for some or all of the representative elements e.g. examples of the entire sentences that contain a particular frequent word combination may be provided or clickable links may be provided to contextual information. In at least some implementations a set of recommended actions may be included in the report e.g. if a frequent word combination for a set of airline feedback entries comprises the words dirty seat covers the content analyzer may recommend that actions to clean airplane seat covers or install new seat covers be taken. In some embodiments where for example it may be deemed desirable to obtain additional feedback related to a particular representative word combination or phrase the content analyzer may generate one or more suggested survey questions that may be used in follow up surveys either to the same set of users from whom the original content was received or to all users. In at least some embodiments clients may be allowed to provide instructions or guidance regarding the types of information to be included in a report .

In some embodiments especially in cases where the total number of user generated entries available for analysis is large the content analyzer may extract a subset of the available entries and perform the analysis of the structured components and the unstructured components using the subset. For example in one embodiment a client may indicate selection criteria for choosing the set of entries to be examined such as a range of dates for which the entries should be retrieved or a particular geographical area from which user entries should be retrieved i.e. the set of entries retrieved may be filtered based on the locations of the users that generated the entries . In some embodiments the content analyzer may provide trend information in its reports e.g. by analyzing feedback for successive date ranges separately and indicating changes in the frequent word combination lists for each of the various date ranges. In one embodiment a programmatic interface may be provided to clients enabling the clients to indicate desired grouping criteria for entries to be compared e.g. a client may provide a before grouping criteria and an after grouping criteria e.g. representing time periods before and after a particular marketing event and the content analyzer may collect entries for before and after groups separately and include an indication of the differences between the frequent word combinations or other representative elements for the two groups in a report. In some embodiments the content analyzer may combine structured data from more than one data source when classifying the content entries e.g. it may be possible to retrieve from a data source B corresponding to a given entry A obtained from a data source A additional demographic information about the individual that created the entry A and such additional demographic information may be used in classifying the entry A. Depending for example on the computational power of the devices used for the content analyzer in a given implementation very large numbers of entries e.g. tens of millions of entries may be analyzed within a short time period allowing clients to quickly obtain insights into the impact of specific marketing campaigns or operational changes as well as possible future adjustments in tactics and strategy.

In different embodiments depending on the nature of the service or product for which user generated content is being provided and or on the platform being used to generate the content different types of structured components may be available from a given set of user generated entries . In some embodiments the content analyzer may be capable of targeting user generated content for a number of different business domains e.g. a given content analyzer may be able to analyze restaurant reviews hotel reviews car rental reviews airline reviews cruise reviews. In one implementation the content analyzer may comprise respective pluggable modules or libraries tailored for each of several domains e.g. one module may be tailored for restaurant reviews another for doctors and other healthcare providers another for pest exterminators and so on. In such an implementation each module may be configured to detect domain specific keywords or jargon either for the structured data analysis for the unstructured data analysis or both.

At least in some embodiments not all the entries for a given service or product may contain the same structured component fields. For example another user of the same feedback platform as was used to generate the review of may not bother to provide details of the group size or the total bill. The content analyzer may be configured to respond to missing or unpopulated fields in various ways in different embodiments. For example in one embodiment for a given domain such as restaurant reviews the content analyzer may be configured to include for analysis only those entries that include values for at least a specified set of structured data fields and to reject other entries. In another embodiment the content analyzer may attempt to infer or assign default values for some fields that are unpopulated e.g. based on the analysis of those entries that do contain entries for a given field . For example if 85 of a particular restaurant s reviews indicate that the total bill per person was between 30 and 50 and 15 of the reviews indicate no value for the total bill the content analyzer may for the purposes of analysis assume that the bill per person value of 30 50 is valid for all the reviews.

Entry collector may be configured to obtain the user generated content entries from various social media data sources in the depicted embodiment. For example one or more of the data sources may provide an API and entry collector may utilize a software library that invokes various interfaces of the API supported by each of the data sources of interest to retrieve the user generated content entries. As noted earlier in some embodiments it may be possible to extract content entries from the publicly available web pages of a social media platform s web site e.g. using a web scraping or screen scraping approach. Depending on the format in which the entries are retrieved an additional step of optical character recognition or its equivalent may be required in some embodiments e.g. when the user generated content entries are retrieved in an image format rather than as text. Entry collector may also be capable of transmitting database queries using any appropriate query language or query interface such as various SQL Structured Query Language based languages in some embodiments to obtain the user generated content entries. In some embodiments one or more of the data sources may support search interfaces which may be used by entry collector to filter the types of content entries that are retrieved. In at least some embodiments the entry collector may collect only a subset of the available content entries for example if ten million of content entries are available for a given service or product a random sampling approach may be used and only one million entries may be retrieved.

Structured component analyzer may be configured to identify the values of the various structured component fields such as fields of of user generated entries in the depicted embodiment. The structured component analyzer may also be configured to classify content entries into different buckets or categories based on the identified structured field values. In some embodiments structured information about a given entry may have to be determined indirectly i.e. from a source other than the contents of the entry itself. For example a particular review web site may require users to register before they post reviews and the registration process may require that the users provide demographic information e.g. home address age gender and the like in some embodiments. Such demographic information may be stored in a user database to which at least in some cases the content analyzer may be provided access by the business entity that maintains the review web site. When analyzing a review from a particular user U1 the demographic information for U1 may be retrieved in at least some implementations by the structured component analyzer and may be used to help classify U1 s entry. In some embodiments the structured component analyzer may classify content entries along multiple dimensions. For example as shown in restaurants may be rated separately for different characteristics such as food service and ambience in . The structured component analyzer may use each of the different types of ratings values for a corresponding classification in some implementations such as one set of categories for food another set of categories for service and another set for ambience. In other implementations the structured component analyzer may combine the separate ratings values of a given content entry to derive a composite or blended rating and use the composite rating for classification.

Unstructured component analyzer may be responsible for identifying meaningful representative elements such as frequent word combinations in the unstructured portions of content entries of one or more categories in the depicted embodiment e.g. using any appropriate combination of statistical approaches semantic approaches or linguistic approaches. In some embodiments where for example the user generated content may be produced in any of multiple languages e.g. reviewers may provide comments in English Spanish or French a separate unstructured component analyzer may be implemented for each language. In at least some embodiments either the structured component analyzer the unstructured component analyzer or both may be implemented using machine learning techniques such that the quality of their analysis improves over time as the total number of user generated content entries analyzed increases.

Report generator may be responsible for producing reports that include the representative elements such as frequent word combinations or phrases identified by the unstructured component analyzer and providing the reports in the desired format to the clients . The clients may include for example employees of various business entities governmental agencies or associations such as political parties non governmental groups and the like in different embodiments. In some embodiments where frequent word combinations are provided in addition to the frequent word combinations themselves the report generator may also include context information e.g. examples of the specific sentences in which the word combinations were found associated with the word combinations in the reports. In one embodiment the report generator may also include recommendations based on the representative elements e.g. a given report may include suggested questions to be included in a survey to obtain further feedback about some frequent word combinations or phrases or suggestions about process changes that should be implemented to improve user satisfaction with a service or product. The unstructured component analyzer may provide the report generator with the context information and or the recommendations in at least some embodiments. In one embodiment the report generator and or the unstructured component analyzer may utilize a knowledge base that includes information on the success or failure of previously provided recommendations and such a knowledge base may be consulted when generating suggestions to be included in the report.

Interface manager may be configured to implement one or more programmatic interfaces such as web pages APIs or the like allowing clients and or data sources to communicate with content analyzer . Clients may be able to submit requests for analysis provide guidance on the contents or format of reports and or provide feedback on the perceived quality of the content analyzer s functionality using the programmatic interfaces in the depicted embodiment. The interface manager may publish one or more APIs in some embodiments which may be used by one or more social media data sources to push user generated content entries to the content analyzer instead of or in addition to the content analyzer s pulling the content entries from the data sources. It is noted that the content analyzer may comprise additional components not explicitly shown in in some embodiments and that some of the components illustrated in may be omitted in other embodiments.

The structured component analyzer may classify the entries of collection into a plurality of categories bases at least in part on the star rating. As shown three categories called Positive Reviews Negative Reviews and Neutral Reviews may be used in the illustrated example. Entries that have four star or five star ratings may be classified as positive reviews entries that have two or fewer stars may be classified as negative reviews and entries that have three stars may be classified as neutral reviews. The number of different categories and the category definitions or inclusion criteria may be determined by the content analyzer for a given set of entries in some embodiments. In other embodiments a client may indicate the category definitions or inclusion criteria of interest for a given entry set of interest e.g. via a programmatic interface and the content analyzer may use the client provided definitions.

It is noted that not all the content entries may be of interest in some embodiments e.g. a business entity may be interested in gaining insights primarily from positive and negative reviews and not from neutral reviews in which case the feedback entries representing neutral reviews may be discarded by the structured component analyzer . It is also noted that as illustrated in in some embodiments a given content entry may contain structured feedback on several attributes of a given product or service and each of the different types of structured feedback such as different star ratings for food versus service at a restaurant may be used for a respective classification. Thus for example the same set of restaurant related feedback entries may be classified into Positive food reviews Negative food reviews Positive service reviews and Negative service reviews categories with a given entry being classified along the food and service dimensions using the corresponding star rating. In at least some embodiments multiple categories of structured data associated with the feedback entries may be used in the classification step e.g. if structured data about the size of the party that dined at a restaurant is available from the feedback entries that also contain star ratings for service the entries may be divided into categories such as Positive service reviews for groups of four or more diners Negative service reviews for groups of four or more diners Positive dining reviews for groups of two diners Negative dining reviews for groups of two diners and so on. Additional types of structured data associated with the content entries may be used for classification in other embodiments either singly or in combination such as the date or time at which the content was generated or the service or product being reviewed or discussed was obtained a geographical location of the user providing the feedback or the entity providing the service or product the price the user paid or demographic information about the users. In some embodiments the analysis of user generated content may be requested to determine the impact if any of a particular marketing campaign or business tactic in which case the entries may be classified based on whether content was generated before or after the campaign or tactic was implemented.

In the depicted embodiment as shown the unstructured component analyzer may provide four types of output representative elements such as frequent word combinations cross category correlation information occurrence context information and recommended follow up actions . An ordered list of representative elements may be generated for each category with the ordering based on selected criteria such as raw frequency of occurrence the intensity of the positive or negative feedback in the entries in which the elements were found and so forth. In some embodiments a client may be allowed to indicate or modify the sorting criteria for the frequent word combinations or other types of representative elements. Cross category correlation information may for example identify those word combinations that occur frequently in one category but not in others which may be helpful in isolating the specific perceived qualities of the service or product being evaluated that lead to the positive or negative reviews. If the phrase low prices appears frequently in the positive reviews of a restaurant but infrequently in the negative reviews in one example scenario while the phrase long wait appears frequently in the negative reviews and infrequently in the positive reviews it may be deduced that improving the wait time and keeping the prices low may help to improve customer satisfaction for the restaurant. In at least some embodiments the unstructured component analyzer may provide occurrence context information for at least some of the representative elements e.g. the sentences in which the word combinations occurred may be provided or a clickable link to the sentences may be provided so that a client of the content analyzer may inspect the raw user feedback corresponding to word combinations of interest. The unstructured component analyzer may also provide recommended follow up actions such as suggestions to conduct additional surveys to obtain more detailed feedback on some word combinations suggestions for monitoring aspects of the service or product being provided or suggestions for process improvement. For example if some restaurant reviews indicate dissatisfaction with long wait times while others suggest that wait time was short a suggestion to measure wait time trends during different days of the week or different hours of the day may be offered to learn more specifics about when the problematic waits occur and whether they correlate with some other factor such as the wait staff on duty. In some embodiments a knowledge base on previously found frequent word combinations and the success or failure of corresponding previously provided recommendations may be kept which may be used to identify recommendations that may be useful.

In the embodiment depicted in in which the unstructured components are assumed to include client generated text the unstructured component analyzer may perform any combination of various types of natural language processing operations to identify representative elements such as frequent word combinations. For example in embodiments where the entries comprise unstructured text comments the text comments may be first tokenized element of to isolate words and delimiters followed by stemming element to obtain word roots from the tokens. Stop words such as the or on that are assumed not to contribute significantly to the meaning of the comments may then be removed element . Then N grams or combinations of N words or tokens may be identified in the processed text for one or more values of N such as 2 or 3 element and the frequencies of occurrence of the N grams may be determined within the category being examined. In some embodiments the analysis of the unstructured components may also include part of speech tagging element in which the tokens or words of the unstructured components may be classified based on whether they are nouns adjectives verbs and the like. The tokens may then be combined into phrases such as noun phrases or verb phrases in a chunking step element . It is noted that at least in some embodiments only a subset of the analysis steps illustrated in may be performed e.g. in one embodiment a primarily statistical analysis may be conducted in which n grams are identified but classification based on parts of speech is not performed. In another embodiment primarily semantic analysis may be conducted to identify noun phases verb phrases and the like without computing n grams.

As shown in element for each category of interest the content analyzer may examine the unstructured components such as text comments of the entries of the category to identify representative elements such as frequent word combinations or phrases in the entries. Any of a variety of natural language processing techniques such as some of the techniques illustrated in may be employed for the analysis of the unstructured data comprising text in the depicted embodiment. In some embodiments the content analyzer may be sufficiently intelligent to identify not just frequent words or phrases but also concepts or memes suggested by the frequent words or phrases. As shown in element an output list of the representative elements such as frequent word combinations or phrases may be generated ordered for example based on the frequency of occurrence. In at least some embodiments non textual unstructured components of user generated content such as graphical symbols images videos or audio may be analyzed to determine representative content elements in addition to or instead of the text analysis described above.

In some embodiments as shown in element additional context information such as pointers to or examples of the specific sentences in which representative elements such as word combinations or phrases occurred in the source entries may also be collected optionally. As shown in element also optionally recommended action plans may be created based on the representative elements found e.g. the content analyzer may suggest questions to be included in a survey recommended process changes or policy changes and the like. The content analyzer may generate a report that includes the output of the unstructured component analysis e.g. the frequent word combinations for at least some of the categories into which the entries were classified element . The report may also include other elements in some implementations such as cross category correlation information indicating word combinations that occur frequently in one category but not in others or word combinations that occur frequently in multiple categories. In one embodiment context information for the representative elements and or any generated recommendations may also be provided in the report.

In various embodiments computing device may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor s . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing one or more desired functions such as those methods techniques and data described above are shown stored within system memory as code and data .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computing device and other devices attached to a network or networks such as other computer systems or devices as illustrated in through for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as types of Ethernet network for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above for through for implementing embodiments of the corresponding methods and apparatus. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include non transitory storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computing device via I O interface . A non transitory computer accessible storage medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computing device as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface . Portions or all of multiple computing devices such as that illustrated in may be used to implement the described functionality in various embodiments for example software components running on a variety of different devices and servers may collaborate to provide the functionality. In some embodiments portions of the described functionality may be implemented using storage devices network devices or special purpose computer systems in addition to or instead of being implemented using general purpose computer systems. The term computing device as used herein refers to at least all these types of devices and is not limited to these types of devices.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The various methods as illustrated in the Figures and described herein represent example embodiments of methods. The methods may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. The order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc.

Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. It is intended that the invention embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

