---

title: Annotating electronic presentation
abstract: Systems and methods for annotating electronic meetings are generally provided. Embodiments herein may include receiving an indication of one or more trusted users for an electronic meeting. The one or more trusted users may include a subset of a plurality of attendees of the electronic meeting. Annotation privileges may be associated with the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting. An annotation associated with the electronic meeting may be received from at least one of the one or more trusted users. An output representative of the annotation may be generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043396&OS=09043396&RS=09043396
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09043396
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120628
---
The present disclosure generally relates to electronic meeting systems and more particularly to annotating electronic presentations.

Web conferencing systems allow conferencing events to be shared across several possibly remote locations. The conferencing events may allow information to be shared generally in real time or near real time. Examples of web conferences may include web based seminars presentations lectures workshops or the like. In some instances a presenter may speak over a standard telephone line while referencing information that may be presented onscreen. In some instances web conferencing systems may incorporate the use of voice over IP technologies that may allow for a completely web or network based communication.

In one implementation a method in accordance with this disclosure may include receiving on a processor an indication of one or more trusted users for an electronic meeting. The one or more trusted users may include a subset of a plurality of attendees of the electronic meeting. The method may also include associating on the processor annotation privileges with the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting. The method may also include receiving on the processor an annotation associated with the electronic meeting from at least one of the one or more trusted users. The method may further include generating on the processor an output representative of the annotation.

One or more of the following features may be included. An annotation privilege notice for the one or more trusted users may be generated. The annotation may be associated with an electronic meeting slide. The annotation may be associated with an element of the electronic meeting slide.

The output representative of the annotation may be generated in substantially real time with receiving the annotation. The output representative of the annotation may be generated in response to an indication of a conclusion of the electronic meeting. The method may also include defining annotation review privileges associated with one or more users.

According to another implementation a computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations including receiving an indication of one or more trusted users for an electronic meeting. The one or more trusted users may include a subset of a plurality of attendees of the electronic meeting. Instructions may be included for associating annotation privileges with the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting. Instructions may also be included for receiving an annotation associated with the electronic meeting from at least one of the one or more trusted users. Instructions may further be included for generating an output representative of the annotation.

One or more of the following features may be included. Instructions may be included for generating an annotation privilege notice for the one or more trusted users. The annotation may be associated with an electronic meeting slide. The annotation may be associated with an element of the electronic meeting slide.

The output representative of the annotation may be generated in substantially real time with receiving the annotation. The output representative of the annotation May be generated in response to an indication of a conclusion of the electronic meeting. Instructions may further be included for defining annotation review privileges associated with one or more users.

According to another implementation a computing system includes one or more processors. The one or more processors may be configured to receive an indication of one or more trusted users for an electronic meeting. The one or more trusted users may include a subset of a plurality of attendees of the electronic meeting. The one or more processors may also be configured to associate annotation privileges with the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting. The one or more processors may also be configured to receive an annotation associated with the electronic meeting from at least one of the one or more trusted users. The one or more processors may further be configured to generate an output representative of the annotation.

One or more of the following features may be included. The one or more processors may be further configured for generating an annotation privilege notice for the one or more trusted users. The annotation may be associated with an electronic meeting slide. The annotation may be associated with an element of the electronic meeting slide.

The output representative of the annotation may be generated in substantially real time with receiving the annotation. The output representative of the annotation may be generated in response to an indication of a conclusion of the electronic meeting. The one or more processors may be further configured for defining annotation review privileges associated with one or more users. The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium also herein referred to as a computer readable medium and or a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any non transitory medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages and or in scripting languages such as JavaScript programming language or the Groovy programming language. Furthermore various application programming interfaces APIs and or application development frameworks such as the Dojo or Grails development frameworks may be used in writing the computer program. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown annotation process that may reside on and may be executed by server computer which may be connected to network e.g. the Internet or a local area network . Examples of server computer may include but are not limited to a personal computer a server computer a series of server computers a mini computer and a mainframe computer. Server computer may be a web server or a series of servers running a network operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell NetWare or Red Hat Linux for example. Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both Novell and NetWare are registered trademarks of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both. 

As will be described in greater detail below according to an example embodiment annotation process may receive an indication of one or more trusted users for an electronic meeting. The one or more trusted users may include a subset of a plurality of attendees of the electronic meeting. Annotation process may also associate annotation privileges with the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting. Annotation process may also receive an annotation associated with the electronic meeting from at least one of the one or more trusted users. Annotation process may further generate an output representative of the annotation.

The instruction sets and subroutines of annotation process which may include one or more software modules and which may be stored on storage device coupled to server computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into server computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Server computer may execute a web server application examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft IIS Novell Webserver or Apache HTTP Server Apache Tomcat application server that allows for access to server computer e.g. via network using one or more protocols examples of which may include but are not limited to HTTP i.e. HyperText Transfer Protocol SIP i.e. session initiation protocol and the Lotus Sametime VP protocol or other suitable protocol. Webserver is a trademark of Novell Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Apache and Tomcat are registered trademarks of Apache Software Foundation in the United States other countries or both Lotus and Sametime are registered trademarks of International Business Machine Corporation in the United States other countries or both . Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Server computer may execute a presentation application e.g. presentation application examples of which may include but are not limited to IBM Sametime WebEx or the like IBM and Sametime are trademarks of International Business Machine Corporation in the United States other countries or both WebEx is a registered trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. in the United States other countries or both. The instruction sets and subroutines of presentation application may be stored on storage device coupled to server computer and may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into server computer . Presentation application may allow for performance publication participation and or execution of computer based presentations meetings workshops or other collaborative activities herein generally referred to as electronic meetings or eMeetings. eMeetings may include visual and or visual and audio component that may be provided at least in part by presentation application . Presentation application may facilitate participation an eMeeting by one or more client applications e.g. client applications . Accordingly in an example embodiment presentation application may facilitate participation in an eMeeting by one or more participants and one or more moderators e.g. who may present information during the course of the eMeeting . Examples of client applications may include but are not limited to a web browser and or another general purpose application and or special purpose application that may allow for participation in an eMeeting.

Annotation process may interface and or interact with presentation application and or may be a module or component of presentation application . In addition as an alternative to being a server side process the annotation process may be a client side process not shown that may reside on a client electronic device described below and may interact with and or may be a module or component of a client application e.g. one or more of client applications . Further the annotation process may be a hybrid server side client side process that may interact with server side presentation application and a client application e.g. one or more of client applications . As such the annotation process may reside in whole or in part on server computer and or one or more client electronic devices.

The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices respectively coupled to client electronic devices respectively may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory modules not shown incorporated into client electronic devices respectively . Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives solid state drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM read only memories ROM compact flash CF storage devices secure digital SD storage devices and a memory stick storage devices. Examples of client electronic devices may include but are not limited to personal computer laptop computer mobile computing device such as a smart phone netbook tablet computer or the like notebook computer for example. Each of client electronic devices may execute an appropriate operating system for example Mac OS iOS Android OS Windows or other suitable operating system. Mac OS is a trademark of Apple Inc. in the United States other countries or both iOS is a trademark of Cisco Systems Inc. Android is a trademark of Google Inc. in the United States other countries or both Windows is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United Sates other countries or both. 

Using client applications users may access annotation process and or presentation application and may e.g. participate in an eMeeting. Users may access annotation process directly through the device on which the client application e.g. client applications is executed namely client electronic devices for example. Users may access comprehension process directly through network or through secondary network . Further server computer i.e. the computer that executes comprehension process may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example personal computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further notebook computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Laptop computer is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between laptop computer and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between laptop computer and WAP . Mobile computing device is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between mobile computing device and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and personal digital assistants to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

Referring also to according to one aspect annotation process may receive an indication of one or more trusted users for an electronic meeting. The one or more trusted users may include a subset of a plurality of attendees of the electronic meeting. Annotation process may also associate annotation privileges with the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting. Annotation process may also receive an annotation associated with the electronic meeting from at least one of the one or more trusted users. Annotation process may further generate an output representative of the annotation.

Generally an electronic meeting which may also be referred to as an eMeeting may include a collaborative event in which information may be shared among a plurality of participants of the eMeeting over a computing network. As a component of an eMeeting visual materials e.g. presentation slides pictures video content and the like may be presented to the participants via a computing device associated with one or more of the participants. For example each participant may receive and view the visual material via a respective computing device having a display associated with each participant and or associated with a group of participants.

In an embodiment herein a presenter and or a moderator administrator or other user may wish to allow a portion of the attendees of the eMeeting i.e. participants of the eMeeting to provide comments cues feedback or the like with respect to the eMeeting. Referring also to annotation process alone and or in conjunction with one or more of presentation application and client application may provide user interface . User interface may include a listing of meeting attendees e.g. listing generally for an electronic meeting. Consistent with the illustrated embodiment user may select e.g. via onscreen pointer which may be controlled by a pointing device such as a mouse not shown one or more users e.g. user user user as being allowed to provide annotations relative to the eMeeting e.g. by selecting an associated check box . In response to user selecting one or more users as being allowed to provide annotations relative to the eMeeting annotation process may receive an indication of one or more trusted users for an electronic meeting. The one or more trusted users selected as being allowed to provide annotations relative to the eMeeting may include a subset of all of the plurality of attendees of the eMeeting. In some embodiments the remaining attendees of the eMeeting may not be allowed to make annotations relative to the eMeeting. Further in some embodiment the presenter or moderator may select the one or more trusted users that may be allowed to provide annotations relative to the eMeeting prior to the eMeeting beginning. In other embodiments the presenter or moderator may be capable of selecting one or more trusted users while the eMeeting is ongoing e.g. after the eMeeting has begun .

In an embodiment in response to receiving the indication of the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting annotation process may associate annotation privileges with the one or more trusted users for the electronic meeting. In an embodiment the annotation privileges may be associated with one or more particular users with respect to a particular electronic meeting. As such a given trusted user may only have annotation privileges for the specific electronic meeting. In an embodiment annotation process may generate an annotation privilege notice for the one or more trusted users. The annotation privilege notice may notify the one or more trusted users that they have annotation privileges with respect to a particular eMeeting. According to various embodiments different annotation privilege notifications may be utilized and or different annotation privilege notifications may be utilized for differ trusted users. Examples of annotation privilege notifications that may be generated by annotation process may include but are not limited to an indicator associated with the electronic meeting e.g. in an invitation to the electronic meeting in a calendaring scheduling application associated with the one or more trusted users an electronic message transmitted to the one or more trusted users e.g. an email instant message or the like and or a notification provided via a client application during the electronic meeting. Various additional alternative annotation privilege notifications may equally be utilized.

Consistent with the foregoing in some embodiments the association of annotation privileges and the generation of annotation privilege notifications may orchestrate communicate and manage the rights of the trusted user and or the electronic meeting attendees in general for providing annotation with respect to an eMeeting. Accordingly in some embodiments it may be possible to receive annotations e.g. comments remarks or other cues from the trusted user while not receiving annotations from all of the electronic meeting attendees which may be distracting for the presenter of the electronic meeting.

Further annotation process may receive an annotation associated with the electronic meeting from at least one of the one or more trusted users. In general an annotation may include a comment remark edit questions cue or other information or feedback relative to an electronic meeting. According to an example embodiment an annotation may be generally associated with the eMeeting. In other embodiments the annotation may be associated with an electronic meeting slide e.g. a particular slide of an eMeeting presentation . For example an eMeeting may include a plurality of presentation slides e.g. PowerPoint slide presentation . PowerPoint is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both. For example and referring also to a presentation slide of an eMeeting may be displayed for a trusted user e.g. user for the purpose of explanation via client application alone and or in conjunction with one or more of presentation application and annotation process . In an embodiment user may generate an annotation relative to presentation slide by invoking an annotation dialog box relative to slide . For example user may right click or any other suitable operation a window including slide using onscreen pointer . Right clicking within slide may result in annotation process alone and or in conjunction with one or more of client application and presentation application providing annotation pop up . In an embodiment user may input e.g. using a keyboard or other input device associated with client electronic device a desired comment. Further user may select submit button within annotation pop up . In response to user selecting submit button annotation process may receive the annotation associated with slide . Annotation process may receive the annotation associated with slide directly and or as a result of the annotation being transmitted to annotation process e.g. transmitted from client electronic device to server computer . In the event that user may reconsider sending the annotation user may select cancel button from within annotation pop up .

Further in some embodiment the annotation may be associated with an element of the electronic meeting slide. For example as shown in user may select e.g. by right clicking using onscreen pointer a particular element within slide e.g. first bullet point of heading in the illustrated example . In such an embodiment the annotation input via annotation pop up may not only be associated with slide but may further be associated with the particular element e.g. first bullet point of heading within slide . In an example embodiment slide may include metadata that may allow the annotation to be associated with specific elements of slide e.g. in addition and or as an alternative to associating screen position within slide . For example the metadata included with slide may identify elements e.g. features and or objects of interest within slide . Examples of elements within slide may include but are not limited to titles headings subheadings text blocks and or individual words within text blocks graphics or other elements within slide . Accordingly utilizing the metadata included within slide annotations may be associated with particular elements of slide . Various additional and or alternative mechanisms may be utilized for associating an annotation with a particular element of a presentation slide.

During the course of an eMeeting including a slide presentation the slides of the presentation may be advanced based on for example an input by the presenter of the eMeeting a defined time delay for the presentation or some other mechanism for advancing slides of a presentation. According to an embodiment annotation process alone and or in conjunction with one or more of presentation process and one or more client application may allow a slide to persist relative to a trusted user once the trusted user begins annotating the slide. For example if a trusted user begins making an annotation to a slide for example by right clicking on the slide as described above and the presentation of the eMeeting subsequently advances to a new slide before the trusted user completes the annotation e.g. by either selecting submit button or cancel button the slide being annotated may persist i.e. not advance to the next slide in the presentation for the trusted user annotating the slide. Accordingly notwithstanding the presentation advancing to a new slide the trusted user may finish making his annotation. In an embodiment and referring also to in a situation in which the presentation may advance to a new slide while a trusted user e.g. user is annotating slide one or more of annotation process presentation application and client application may provide indication pop up that the presentation has advanced to a new slide. In an example embodiment in addition to providing an indication that the presentation has advanced to a new slide indication pop up may also include options e.g. for once user completes the annotation to advance to the current slide of the presentation e.g. by selecting current slide button and or to advance to a next slide of the presentation e.g. by selecting next slide button . For example in the event that the presentation may advance through more than one slide while user is generating the annotation of slide user may select next slide button in order to progress through any intervening slides between slide and the current slide of the presentation e.g. such that user may not miss any of the intervening slides and or may have an opportunity to annotation such intervening slides .

Annotation process may further generate an output representative of the annotation. For example the output representative of the annotation may allow the presenter or the eMeeting and or additional individuals to view the annotation. In some embodiments the output representative of the annotation may include a visual representation of the annotation. In other embodiments other embodiments the output representative of the annotation may take different forms including an electronic record of the annotation. In an embodiment the output representative of the annotation may be generated in substantially real time with receiving the annotation. For example in such an embodiment annotation process may generate the output representative of the annotation as the trusted user is creating the annotation and or as soon as the trusted user completes that annotation. In such an embodiment the presenter and or another user may view the annotation substantially at the same time that the annotation is submitted by the user creating the annotation.

For example and referring to continuing with the above example in which user may be a presenter of the eMeeting slide may be displayed on a client electronic device associated with user e.g. client electronic device while user is giving the presentation. Upon user generating his annotation and selecting submit button annotation process may receive the annotation e.g. I think that this point is incorrect associated with slide e.g. associated with first bullet point of heading . In response to receiving the annotation annotation process alone and or in conjunction with one or more of presentation process and client application may generate annotation pop up including the annotation submitted by user . In an embodiment in which the annotation generated by user was associated with an element of the slide the representation of the annotation generated by annotation process e.g. annotation pop up may similarly be associated with the same element of the same slide. In such an embodiment the presenter may be able to utilize the information of the annotation if desired e.g. to correct a pieces of information elaborate on an topic etc. .

In another embodiment the output representative of the annotation may be generated in response to an indication of a conclusion of the electronic meeting. For example a presenter of an eMeeting and or another individual such as an administrator or the like may determine that receiving annotations during a presentation may be distracting and or undesirable for the presenter. In such an embodiment the annotations may be passively received and or recorded for later review and or playback. According to such an embodiment the presenter may not be distracted by the arrival and display of annotation during the presentation. In some embodiments in which an output representative of the annotation may be generated in substantially real time with receiving the annotation an output representative of the annotation may also be generated in response to a conclusion of the electronic meeting. That is the annotations may be saved with the presentation e.g. for later review and or user by the presenter and or by another individual.

In an embodiment annotation process may also define annotation review privileges associated with one or more users. For example in addition as an alternative to the annotations only being available to the presenter of the eMeeting in some embodiments the annotations may be viewed and or accessed by one or more additional users. In an example embodiment annotation process may define annotation review privileges associated with one or more user in which the annotation review privileges may provide access control relative to the annotations. As such differential rights may exist between users in which different users may be able to view or not view different annotations. For example in one embodiment all annotations may be viewed by all users. In another embodiment annotations may only be viewed by trusted users and or by individuals having a determined position within an organizational hierarchy. A user such as the presenter and administrator or another individual may input one or more annotation review privilege rules. Annotation process may define the annotation review privileges associated with the one or more users based on the annotation review privilege rules. For example a user may specifically select users that may review annotations. In another example one or more rules for determining annotation review privileges may be established. For example users may be allowed to view annotations that they created but not annotations that another user created. Various additional alternative annotation review privileges may be associated with one or more users based on various different rules and or mechanisms for determining access control.

While various embodiments and features have been described herein it will be apparent to one having skill in the art that the various embodiments and features may be susceptible to combination with one another and or to various additional alternative combinations. All such combination of subject matter disclosed herein is intended to be contemplated by the present disclosure.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.

