---

title: Zero client device with integrated serial or parallel ports
abstract: System and method for zero client communications. A zero client device includes a housing, and in the housing, a transcoding processing unit (transcoder) and a communications processing unit coupled to the transcoder. The transcoder is configured to receive input data from human interface device(s), encode the input data, and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over a network to a server. The communications processing unit is configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoder, transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server, receive output data from the server, and send the output data to the transcoder. The transcoder is further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit, decode the output data, and send the decoded output data to at least one of the human interface devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08539025&OS=08539025&RS=08539025
owner: ClearCube Technology, Inc.
number: 08539025
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120607
---
This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61 494 192 titled Zero Client Secure Switching and Mobility Functionality in a Networked Computer System filed Jun. 7 2011 whose inventors are Syed Mohammad Amir Husain and Randy P. Printz which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as though fully and completely set forth herein.

This application also claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 545 640 titled Zero Client Secure Switching and Mobility Functionality in a Networked Computer System filed Oct. 11 2011 whose inventors are Syed Mohammad Amir Husain and Randy P. Printz which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as though fully and completely set forth herein.

The present invention relates generally to networked computing systems in which a plurality of human interfaces are coupled via a network to a plurality of computer systems e.g. co located or centralized computers e.g. blade computers and more specifically to various embodiments of a zero client system implementing such interfaces.

Many commercial businesses and enterprises make extensive use of personal computers PCs in their daily operations. Typically each user of a PC in the enterprise has a networked PC at his her desk or work area. As the number of networked computer systems utilized in an enterprise increases the management of resources in the network may become increasingly complex and expensive. Some of the manageability issues involved in maintaining a large number of networked computer systems may include ease of installation and deployment the topology and physical logistics of the network asset management scalability the cost and effort involved in increasing the number of units troubleshooting network or unit problems support costs software tracking and management as well as the simple issue of physical space be it floor space or room on the desktop as well as security issues regarding physical assets information protection software control and computer virus issues.

Many of these issues may be addressed by centralizing the locations of the PCs such as by installing multiple PCs into a central frame or cabinet and locating each PC s human interface e.g. keyboard display device mouse etc. at a respective remote location e.g. more than 10 or 20 feet from the computing system. In one approach each computer in the system may be a computer on a card also referred to as a computer blade or blade . In other words each computer may be comprised on a circuit card that may include standard computing system components such as a CPU memory power supply and network interface as well as an extender e.g. a USB or PCI extender for communicating with the remote human interface. A computing system in which a plurality of human interfaces are coupled via a network to a plurality of centralized computer blades is referred to herein as a blade computing system.

One type of networked computing system that is increasingly utilized is referred to as a cloud system in which multiple users access server provided computer resources over a network e.g. storage processing tasks applications etc. Client systems coupled to the cloud may utilize provided resources without regard to which server or even how many servers provides the resources.

Some network based computing systems implement or utilize particular types of client server architecture referred to as thin client or zero client. Thin and zero clients rely substantially or entirely upon the server for performing data processing tasks. The thin or zero client supports user interface functionality e.g. presenting information to the user e.g. via display speakers etc. receiving user input from the user via input devices and providing user input to the server etc. while the server performs most or all of the data processing. Note that thin clients may run a full operating system OS whereas zero clients generally do not e.g. a zero client s OS may be a minimal or stripped down OS such as a kernel that primarily initializes network communications protocol and manages displays I O to and from the server s over the network. A cloud client may be considered a subtype of zero client.

Another current trend in computer network technologies is the use of virtual machines. Virtual machines VMs are software processes or environments that implement a computer within a computer where for example the VM may execute a different operating system or even instruction set from its host computer. A client and its user may interact with and perceive the VM as a physical machine although it is actually a software process.

However in prior art zero client systems and VMs there are numerous functionalities that are not implemented and thus not available to users of these systems.

Various embodiments of a zero client device are described. The zero client device may include a housing a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and a communications processing unit also included in the housing and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. Being a zero client device it has no user modifiable storage medium although it may include various memory elements for operation of the device. Similarly the device does not include a conventional operation system. The transcoding processing unit and the communications processing unit may be implemented on respective circuit boards i.e. on a first circuit board and on a second circuit board respectively.

in some embodiments a zero client device may include a housing a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and a communications processing unit also included in the housing and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. Being a zero client device it has no user modifiable storage medium although it may include various memory elements for operation of the device. Similarly the device does not include a conventional operation system.

The transcoding processing unit or the communications processing unit may instantiate a zero client session with a server or other network accessible device over a network. In some embodiments the transcoding processing unit may be configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server.

The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server receive output data from the server over the network and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit.

The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

Note that the above is but one exemplary embodiment and that other embodiments are also contemplated as described below. For example in various embodiments various functionalities may be integrated into the zero client device including for example one or more of Virtual Private Network VPN functionality for securely connecting to a server over a network network authentication capability wireless capability assignment of an IP address to the zero client device based on a MAC address one or more serial or parallel ports USB bandwidth augmentation and support for out of band capabilities multiple display adaptors remoting hardware and I O devices to extend display capabilities Bluetooth capability GPS Global Positioning System capability multi boot capability to allow use of multiple zero client protocols from the same zero client device secure KVM keyboard video mouse switching capability or a network controlled serial audio switch among others.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and are herein described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

As used herein the term zero client refers to an endpoint device which does not have a conventional operating system has no removable storage and has no independent operational capability other than acting as a decoder or receiver for a computing experience that executes on a remote server workstation or blade computer and is transmitted over a network to the zero client. The protocols employed to transmit and decode this experience may include PCoIP HDX RemoteFX or others as desired. The terms processing unit and functional unit refer to any type of computational element such as a processor embedded or otherwise application specific integrated circuit ASIC or Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA among others. As noted above a cloud client is considered to be a subtype of zero client and may support or implement a cloud specific protocol to communicate with a cloud over a network.

Below are presented descriptions of innovative systems and techniques that provide benefits not available in the prior art. It should be noted that in various different embodiments any of the various features and functionalities described below may be used or omitted. In other words any and all different combinations and subsets of the features and functionalities disclosed herein are contemplated and considered to be within the scope of this document.

Typically a zero client device accepts input from a user or from a program which may be referred to as a connection broker to determine which host system remote server it is to connect to. To enable various of the functions and novel features described herein such as out of band USB ports additional displays via USB to video adaptors and so forth a zero client device is described that includes a transcoding processing unit described in detail below and a secondary processing unit e.g. an embedded processor referred to herein as a communications processing unit and described in detail below is necessitated.

In some embodiments the transcoding processing unit may be implemented on a first circuit board and the communications processing unit may be implemented on a second separate circuit board. This particular novel architecture may facilitate or even necessitate various functions and functionalities disclosed herein.

In some embodiments software i.e. program instructions may be provided that runs on or is configured on the communications processing unit which is executable or configured to a detect the connection state of the zero client transcoding processing unit b if the zero client transcoding processing unit is connected to a remote host obtain the IP address or hostname of the remote host and c initiate a connection to a host process e.g. software program which may be pre installed on the remote host to enable the out of band communication channel.

This capability may thus alleviate the need for an end user to manually connect the zero client transcoding processing unit to a host and then also launch a secondary manual connection to enable the communications processing unit to connect to the same host. In fact in many environments the end user may not even be aware of the hostname or the IP address of the remote system to which he she is connecting. This automatic detection of a remote host and automatic out of band connection instantiation process provides significant benefits over the prior art.

Accordingly in some embodiments a zero client device may include a housing a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and a communications processing unit also included in the housing and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. Being a zero client device it has no user modifiable storage medium although it may include various memory elements for operation of the device. Similarly the device does not include a conventional operation system.

The transcoding processing unit or the communications processing unit may instantiate a zero client session with a server or other network accessible device over a network.

In some embodiments the transcoding processing unit may be configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server.

The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server receive output data from the server over the network and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit.

The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

Note that the above is but one exemplary embodiment and that other embodiments are also contemplated as described below.

It should be further noted that the various techniques and systems disclosed herein may include new combinations of hardware devices and new software which may include program instructions implemented in programmable hardware such as an FPGA that utilizes the devices to provide novel and useful functionality. Thus for example in some embodiments the novelty of the systems and methods disclosed is not limited merely to the described combinations of the hardware but also includes special software that automates the workflow required to detect the remote system to which the zero client transcoding processing unit is connected and to cause the communications processing unit e.g. embedded processor that handles out of band communication for USB USB 2 VGA USB 2 Parallel or other forms of communication to connect to the same remote host. Accordingly appropriate software may be resident or available on the remote host to facilitate this connection. In other words the remote host may include server software such that the out of band connection has a server process to connect to which enables the transit of data between remotely connected ports peripherals of the zero client device and the host with which the zero client transcoding processing unit has established a user session connection.

As shows in this embodiment a zero client may be configured to couple to a host computer or VM over a network e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN etc. and may be further configured to couple to various human interface devices HIDs e.g. a display keyboard and mouse or any other human interface device s as desired as well as one or more serial e.g. USB devices as indicated by the serial I O element. It should be noted however that the embodiment shown is meant to be exemplary only and is not intended to limit the client or its connectivity to any particular set if HIDs any particular network or any particular type of host computer or VM. Moreover the host computer or VM may be comprised in any of various networked computer systems e.g. may be part of a cloud system a co located blade computer system localized or distributed data center etc. as desired.

As shown in one embodiment the client may include a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and implemented on a first circuit board as well as a communications processing unit also included in the housing and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. The communications processing unit may be implemented on a second circuit board. In various embodiments the transcoding processing unit may be implemented as an FPGA an ASIC and or a processor among others as desired. The transcoding processing unit may be configured to perform decoding of a video signal received from a source computer or virtual machine an audio signal received from a host i.e. a source computer or virtual machine and or additional signals from the host as a USB Universal Serial Bus or peripheral bus signal . As noted above the zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

The communications processing unit may also be implemented in any of various ways e.g. a processor an FPGA and or an ASIC among others. The communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to devices over a network. In one exemplary embodiment the communications processing unit may be or include an embedded processor running VPN Virtual Private Networking software that functions as an Internet or other network gateway for the transcoding processing unit where the VPN software is stored or implemented in firmware or other type of memory in or of the communications processing unit. Note however that in other embodiments the VPN functionality may be implemented differently. For example in some embodiments where the communications processing unit is implemented with a programmable hardware element such as an FPGA the VPN functionality may be implemented in hardware e.g. may be implemented as part of the hardware configuration e.g. via a netlist e.g. generated based on software. More generally the communications processing unit may implement integrated VPN functionality referred to generally as VPN software via any means desired.

In other words the communications processing unit may be configured to interface with the network and may execute virtual private network VPN software or may otherwise implement VPN functionality or other networking software. Thus the communications processing unit may provide for network communications with the host computer or VM and in some embodiments may include integrated secure network connectivity functionality via the VPN software or other implementation . Such network security functionality being integrated directly into the zero client device may provide cost savings for users and further may preemptively prevent security problems that could arise due to ignorance or na vet on the part of the client user.

The communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired. In one embodiment the transcoding processing unit may be configured to instruct the communications processing unit to instantiate a VPN session with the server. The communications processing unit may be configured to instantiate the VPN session with the server via the VPN software in response to the instruction from the transcoding processing unit. The VPN session may enable communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

The transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate a zero client session with the server via the VPN session. In other words the transcoding processing unit may utilize the established VPN session to instantiate the zero client session.

In some embodiments the transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session. Accordingly the communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session receive output data from the server over the network via the zero client session and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit. The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

Thus as indicates the zero client cevice may receive user interface signals or commands via the HIDs e.g. keyboard mouse microphone touch screen or pad etc. which the transcoding processing unit may encode for transmission to the host computer or VM via the communications processing unit. Conversely as noted above the client may receive signals e.g. data from the host over the network via the communications processing unit. These signals may have been encoded by the host for transmission over the network and the transcoding processing unit may decode these signals and provide the decoded signals to one or more interface devices as appropriate e.g. a display or monitor speakers and so forth. As also noted above the signals that the client may receive and decode may include video signals for display on the display or monitor and audio signals for presentation by speaker s . Moreover as also mentioned above in some embodiments the client may also be configured to receive and decode additional signals such as a USB Universal Serial Bus or peripheral bus signal. Thus for example additional devices may be coupled to the client for provision of further functionality e.g. scanners cameras bar code readers and so forth as desired.

It is important to note that the novel embodiments contemplated and disclosed above are not limited simply to the integration of a VPN device with a zero client device within a single housing. As noted above an important novel aspect of embodiments of the present system and method is the integration of connection functionalities into a unified software connection interface of the system zero client device such that when a user initiates a connection to a remote host the VPN is automatically instantiated and connected after which the actual zero client connection may take place i.e. the zero client connection between the transcoding processing unit and the remote host . This is significant because without the instantiation of the VPN connection the remote system to which the zero client communications processing unit is attempting to connect may not even be visible on the network by virtue of being behind a firewall. In other words it is only the automatic instantiation of the VPN connection via the unified connection interface disclosed herein that configures the VPN connection appropriately prior to the zero client transcoding processing unit attempting to establish a connection.

The zero client device which includes integrated VPN software running or implemented on the communications processing unit may present a user interface which queries or prompts the user for his her login credentials or alternatively the name of a remote system to which a connection is desired.

If the user provides login credentials the interface running on the zero client transcoding processing unit or communications processing unit may contact a connection broker to obtain the IP address or hostname of the remote system to connect to. If the user provides the IP address or the hostname of the remote system this information may be used directly to establish the connection. Alternatively the IP address or hostname may be retrieved from a configuration file.

It should be noted that in various embodiments the acquisition of the IP address or the hostname of the remote system may be performed by either or both of the communications processing unit and the transcoding processing unit. For example either or both of these units may execute software or have configured hardware that presents a graphical user interface GUI to the user via which the user can provide the IP address or hostname or via which the user may invoke retrieval from another source e.g. a broker or configuration file. Similarly either or both of the units may execute software or have configured hardware that retrieves this information e.g. from a broker or configuration file.

According to one embodiment once the IP address or the hostname of the remote system has been acquired via the user a connection broker or a configuration file the software running on the zero client transcoding processing unit and or the communications processing unit may communicate with the VPN software executing on the communications processing unit e.g. over a an internal network e.g. an RJ 45 network in the zero client device. In one embodiment a small software agent running on the communications processing unit may listen for such communications. The message sent from the software running or otherwise implemented on the zero client transcoding processing unit may indicate to the software agent running on the communications processing unit that it should invoke a VPN session with a pre configured host e.g. which may also be referred to as a VPN concentrator.

In the event that a pre configured VPN host is not available the software running on the zero client transcoding processing unit or the communications processing unit may alternatively provide to the software agent running on the communications processing unit hosting the VPN software the name of the VPN host to connect to.

Once the name or IP address of the VPN host has been obtained the agent running on the communications processing unit may instantiate a VPN connection. This VPN connection may allow all devices connected to the communications processing unit such as for example the transcoding processing unit to obtain network visibility to all systems and network s to which the VPN host provides access.

Once such network visibility is obtained the software running on the zero client transcoding processing unit may instruct the communications processing unit to instantiate a zero client connection remoting protocol connection to the specified host.

The novel combination of components including software and the software enabled workflow described above thus allows an end user of the zero client to simply provide credentials or a remote hostname which may result in the underlying triggering of a set of processes which optionally retrieves the hostname from a connection broker instantiates a VPN connection to a pre configured host or to a host explicitly specified by the end user and subsequently instantiates a zero client session with the selected remote host without any further user involvement.

In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to forward a copy of all data associated with the VPN session to a secondary remote server whose address is pre configured by the user in configuration settings of the communications processing unit.

In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications in the VPN session.

In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to report on the usage and connection statistics associated with the VPN session to a secondary remote server whose address is pre configured by the user in configuration settings of the communications processing unit. For example the usage and connection statistics may include one or more of whether and when the zero client device is connected or not data transmission rates data transmission amounts time of connection or connection destination among others.

IEEE 802.1x is an IEEE standard for port based network access control. Part of the IEEE 802.1 set of networking protocols 802.1x provides an authentication mechanism for devices requiring connection to a network such as a LAN Local Area Network or a WLAN wireless LAN possibly over a WAN such as the Internet. Thus in some embodiments the communications processing unit may provide network communications functionality with authentication for the zero client system.

More specifically as shows in one exemplary embodiment the zero client device may include a housing a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and a communications processing unit included in the housing and coupled to the transcoding processing unit where the communications processing unit includes software implementing an 802.1x protocol for network authentication functionality. The zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

The communications processing unit may be configured to connect to a network using the 802.1x protocol determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired and provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server.

The transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate the zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit then receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session.

The communications processing unit may be further configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session receive output data from the server over the network via the zero client session and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit which may be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

In another exemplary embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to execute both VPN software and 802.1x authentication software to provide network communication and authentication capabilities. Thus for example the communications processing unit may further include VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software where the VPN session enables communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

It should be noted however that in other embodiments the communications processing unit of the client system may implement other types of network communication and or authentication protocols as desired.

In some embodiments communications over the network communication channel may be encrypted and or compressed. Any encryption or data compression schemes may be used as desired. In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications over the network communication channel.

As noted above the novel utility of the present approach is due not only to the particular combination of components used i.e. devices and software including for example VPN 802.1x components but also to the software implemented workflow described above which in one embodiment presents a single login screen to the end user and then triggers a set of workflows which a causes the VPN connection to be instantiated b uses the provided credentials for 802.1x authentication and c upon the successful automated instantiation of a VPN connection and the completion of 802.1x authentication invokes a zero client session with a specified host.

In some of the embodiments described above the zero client system device may be coupled to a network via wired means. For example the ASIC or FPGA or processor of the zero client device or system may have a wired network interface. However in some embodiments wireless capability may be integrated into the client. An exemplary embodiment of such a system is illustrated in .

As may be seen the system of is somewhat similar to that of where the zero client couples to various human interface devices e.g. display monitor keyboard mouse serial I O i.e. serial device s etc. and further couples to a host computer or VM over a network. Also common with embodiments of the zero client device or system of may include a housing and a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and implemented on a first circuit board. Note that the first circuit board does not implement wireless communication functionality. The zero client device or system may also include a communications processing unit included in the housing implemented on a second circuit board and coupled to the transcoding processing unit.

Now in the embodiment of the zero client device may also include a wireless communications module included in the housing and switchably coupled to the transcoding processing unit and the communications processing unit. Note that being a zero client device the zero client device does not include a user modifiable storage medium.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to receive an identifier for a wireless network to which connection is desired configure the wireless communications module to connect to the wireless network and switch the wireless communications module to connect to the transcoding processing unit. The transcoding processing unit may in turn be configured to receive an identifier for a server accessible via the wireless network and instantiate a zero client session with the server over the wireless network. The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the wireless network to the server via the zero client session.

The wireless communication module may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit and transmit the encoded input data over the wireless network to the server via the zero client session. Moreover the wireless communication module may be further configured to receive output data from the server over the wireless network via the zero client session and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit.

Accordingly the transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive the output data from the wireless communications module decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices. Thus the zero client device may facilitate or implement communications with a server via wireless means.

In the exemplary embodiment shown the wireless module is or includes an Ethernet Wireless bridge device which typically has an RJ 45 connection and implements DHCP gateway wireless client capabilities so that a device paired with the bridge device via its wired LAN RJ 45 connection can obtain an IP address and connect to the wireless network to which the bridge is connected.

However note that in order to use such a bridge device which is typically made for media or gaming applications e.g. connecting a Sony PlayStation 2 PS2 game console wirelessly appropriate wireless network settings must be configured. These bridge devices have typically required a computer system with a browser to connect to their wired RJ 45 port and access their configuration interface via a web browser. It may be inconvenient and in many instances impossible for each zero client to be configured in such a laborious way i.e. requiring a computer system such as a personal computer or workstation to first connect to it and then to configure it.

However via embodiments of the system shown in the user may be allowed to simply and easily configure the wireless module e.g. the wireless bridge without requiring any additional computer equipment. In one embodiment this may be accomplished by means of an RJ 45 changeover switch or functional equivalents which can optionally and momentarily connect the communications processing unit with the wireless bridge device. When this connection occurs the communications processing unit may obtain an IP address from the wireless bridge and communicate with the bridge via IP.

The communications processing unit or alternatively the transcoding processing unit may execute an embedded browser and may be configured to display a user interface on the display monitor attached to the client. The user may then provide configuration parameters via this user interface displayed on the monitor which may then be obtained by the communications processing unit which may commit them to the wireless bridge thereby configuring the bridge. The RJ 45 changeover switch may then be switched back to the transcoding processing unit e.g. the FPGA decode processor ASIC. With the newly configured wireless parameters the bridge may then be able to establish a wireless connection and the transcoding processing unit may simply operate as if it were connected to a wired network.

Alternatively in another embodiment Wi Fi wireless settings may be configured by means of a script executing on the communications processing unit or the transcoding processing unit which may automate the configuration process described above. Wi Fi devices are often configured via an HTML based configuration web page where a human user accesses the page with a browser and manually configures the device. Typically HTML based configuration web pages of Wi FI devices do not expose an API with which a script or program can interface as most HTML based configuration web pages are designed for manual human interaction.

In contrast in some embodiments of the present device and techniques HTML screen scraping techniques may be used to automatically login to an HTML web configuration page and populate appropriate HTML form fields to advance or implement the workflow s in the configuration page until the goal of the modification of the Wi Fi settings has been achieved. Thus in some embodiments instead of interactively obtaining the input specifying the Wi Fi settings or parameters from a human user the communications processing unit may obtain the input from a remote network source such as a management server that dispenses configuration information to multiple clients or a wireless smart phone or other mobile networked device running a configuration interface used by a system administrator on the road or any other configuration parameter source s .

In other embodiments the wireless bridge may comprise a cellular device e.g. a a 3G or 4G cellular data device. There are numerous ways this functionality may be implemented. For example in one exemplary embodiment the device may provide native RJ 45 port to bridge wireless access to a connected device. Alternatively the device may be or include a USB PCI or other plugin that requires a driver and network stack running on a processor in order to function. In embodiments where the device is a USB PCI or other non standalone device such a cellular peripheral may be integrated with either the communications processing unit or a secondary processor or more generically a secondary processing unit which runs a network stack inclusive of the cellular peripheral driver a DHCP server gateway software and a full TCP IP stack.

In one embodiment the wireless communications module may further include Virtual Private Network VPN software or other implementation for securely connecting to the server over the wireless network. Accordingly the wireless communications module may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software where the VPN session enables communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In some embodiments the wireless communications module may include multiple wireless transponders that implement channel bonding or link aggregation to increase available throughput.

In one embodiment the communications processing unit is configured to maintain a white list of allowed wireless access points or networks with which the wireless communications module may connect. The communications processing unit may be further configured to disable or disconnect the wireless module in response to determining that the wireless communications module has attempted to establish a connection with a disallowed access point or network.

There are a variety of ways the zero client device can acquire the wireless network and server identifiers. For example in one embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to receive user input indicating the identifier for the wireless network via a browser executing on the communications processing unit. In another embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to retrieve the identifier for the wireless network from a configuration file or even a remote configuration server or other remote device . In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to search or otherwise perform a discovery process to determine accessible wireless networks and to select the wireless network based on specified criteria.

In some embodiments to receive an identifier for a server the transcoding processing unit may be configured to obtain the identifier for the server from a remote source via the wireless network e.g. via a cellular device or from a configuration server among others.

Thus in some embodiments the client system may support wireless connectivity and may also provide a ready means for configuring this connectivity without recourse to a separate computing system.

In various embodiments different schemes may be implemented to assign a network address to the zero client system e.g. an IP address as desired. Standard approaches to address assignment include the standard DHCP address assignment methodology and the alternative fixed IP assignment methodology. One or both of these standard approaches may be modified to provide unique benefits to the client system.

In one embodiment a specific IP address may be assigned to the transcoding processing unit based on its MAC Media Access Control address. An advantage of this scheme is that it allows for unique IP addresses across distributed environments as MAC addresses for each device are unique. A benefit of having such unique IP addresses across distributed environments is that when the client establishes a VPN or secure tunnel connection back to a resource center e.g. a cloud server farm datacenter etc. each client is guaranteed to have a unique IP address.

The IP addresses assigned can be associated with a MAC address and never changed i.e. the IP address may be statically bound to the transcoding processing unit or alternatively may be dynamically bound to the transcoding processing unit based on a MAC address to IP address binding obtained from a set of MAC address to IP address bindings stored on one or more server computers e.g. may be obtained from a list maintained on a centralized server or servers which provides MAC address to IP bindings. Thus the assigned addresses may be permanent or dynamic.

As shown in in one exemplary embodiment the zero client device may include a housing and a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and implemented on a first circuit board. The transcoding processing unit may include e.g. store a Media Access Control MAC address and an Internet Protocol IP address based on the MAC address where the IP address is useable by the transcoding processing unit to communicate with devices over networks. The zero client device may also include a communications processing unit included in the housing implemented on a second circuit board and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. As noted above the zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired and query a remote database against the MAC address of the coupled transcoding processing unit. The communications processing unit may be configured to obtain an IP address to assign to the transcoding processing unit from the remote database based on the MAC address and assign the obtained IP address to the transcoding processing unit by acting as a DHCP Dynamic Host Control Protocol server or using a management application programming interface API of the transcoding processing unit to set its static IP address to the obtained IP address. The communications processing unit may be further configured to provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server.

Accordingly the transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate the zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit. Moreover the transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session.

The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session receive output data from the server over the network via the zero client session and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit. Accordingly the transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software. The VPN session may enable communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

Thus embodiments of the above zero client device may utlize a MAC address to communicate with a server over a network.

In some embodiments the zero client device s transcoding processing unit supports peripheral remoting via a single e.g. serial communication protocol e.g. the USB protocol only and thus may only provide a port or ports for that protocol e.g. one or more USB ports. In other embodiments as indicated in one or more converters may be integrated into the client s housing to convert between this e.g. serial protocol and other protocols where the converters may be coupled to the one or more USB ports of the transcoding processing unit. For example the one or more converters may be or include USB converters for converting between USB and RS 232 or RS 485 communication protocols between USB protocol and a parallel communication protocol or any other type of protocol converter. Moreover in some embodiments multiple converters may be utilized and thus combinations of converters may be used to support client system communications with a wide variety of peripherals and protocols.

In one embodiment the transcoding processing unit may be connected to the one or more protocol converters via a secondary or auxiliary communication channel that may be used to implement one or more of a power management for the one or more converters b gathering performance metrics from the one or more converters and or c management and configuration of the one or more converters.

In one particular exemplary embodiment represented in the zero client device may include a housing and a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and implemented on a first circuit board where the transcoding processing unit includes at least one USB port. The zero client device may further include one or more converters included in the housing and coupled to the USB port of the transcoding processing unit to facilitate communications between the transcoding processing unit and a corresponding one or more non USB peripheral devices. Each converter of the one or more converters may be configured to convert between USB protocol and a respective one of an RS 232 communication protocol an RS 485 communication protocol or a parallel communication protocol among others. As shows the transcoding processing unit may also be configured to couple to one or more human interface devices e.g. a display keyboard mouse etc. as desired.

The zero client device may further include a communications processing unit included in the housing implemented on a second circuit board and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. The zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

The communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired and provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server. The transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate a zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit then receive first input data from one or more human interface devices receive second input data from at least one non USB peripheral device via at least one of the one or more converters encode the first and second input data thereby generating encoded input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session.

Now the communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit and transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session.

Conversely the communications processing unit may be further configured to receive first and second output data from the server over the network via the zero client session and send the first and second output data to the transcoding processing unit which may be further configured to receive the first and second output data from the communications processing unit decode the first and second output data thereby generating corresponding first and second decoded data. The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to send the first decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices and send the second decoded data to the at least one non USB peripheral device via at least one of the one or more converters.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software. The VPN session may enable communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In some embodiments communications over the network communication channel may be encrypted and or compressed. Any encryption or data compression schemes may be used as desired. In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications over the network communication channel.

In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to identify packets transmitted over the network communication channel that are associated with a specified converter. In other words the communications processing unit may be able to determine which converters are associated with which communication packets. The communications processing unit may then present various options to the user that take advantage of this functionality. For example in some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to in response to user input log communications related to the specified converter forward communications related to the specified converter to a remote server whose address has been user configured in configuration settings of the communications processing unit prevent forwarding of packets over the network communication channel related to the specified converter or accelerate or prioritize transmission of packets on the out of band USB session related to the specified converter among other actions.

As discussed above in some embodiments the zero client device may have a single network interface by which it may connect to the network. This interface may be configured to deliver display video audio and keyboard mouse input output as well as all peripheral traffic by means of a single protocol e.g. the TCP IP protocol. In some embodiments an out of band technique may be utilized to enhance USB throughput capabilities delivered by a client. In some embodiments the zero client device may include one or more additional USB ports or ports supporting other protocols which are out of band where out of band means that the communications occur outside the normal zero client session for the device. Moreover a software based USB remoting protocol may be used to implement a software USB redirection channel.

As may be seen in the embodiment shown the transcoding processing unit which may be implemented on a first circuit board may include at least one USB port and may support peripheral remoting via USB protocol.

The zero client s communications processing unit which may be implemented on a second circuit board and which is coupled to the transcoding processing unit may be configured to implement execute a software based USB remoting protocol that supplements the at least one USB port of the transcoding processing unit. To supplement the at least one USB port of the transcoding processing unit the communications processing unit may implement one or more USB ports for out of band communications implementing a supplemental peripheral communication channel.

The zero client device may further include an uplink network connection also included in the housing and included in or coupled to the communications processing unit for connecting to a network.

The communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired e.g. a remote host computer a remote virtual machine or any other type of server instantiate an out of band session with the server to provide for supplemental peripheral communication and provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server. More generally the communications processing unit may ascertain connection information for connecting the zero client device to a resource over a network and provide this information to the transcoding processing unit. The communications processing unit may be further configured to establish an out of band USB session for communications between the server and the communications processing unit and between the server and peripheral devices connected to the one or more USB ports for out of band communications. In other words an extra or auxiliary out of band USB or other serial bus session may be provided established for communications between the server and peripheral devices on the out of band USB ports via the communications processing unit.

The transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate a zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit after which the transcoding processing unit may be operable to receive first input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data thereby generating encoded input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session.

Accordingly the communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit and to receive second input data from one or more USB peripheral devices via the additional one or more USB ports. The communications processing unit may be further configured to transmit the encoded input data and the second input data over the network to the server via the zero client session.

The communications processing unit may be further configured to receive first output data from the server over the network via the zero client session receive second output data from the server over the network via the out of band USB session send the first output data to the transcoding processing unit and send the second output data to the one or more USB peripheral devices via the one or more USB ports.

The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive the first output data from the communications processing unit decode the first output data thereby generating decoded output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

Thus in the embodiment of the communications processing unit is configured to execute USB remoting software which supplements the USB remoting capabilities of the transcoding processing unit. There are several novel techniques that may be used to implement this architecture.

For example in one embodiment the presence of additional USB ports may act as a supplemental peripheral communication channel or channels to the USB ports connected via the transcoding processing unit. As another example USB remoting software may be integrated on the communications processing unit which is paired with the transcoding processing unit implementing a zero or cloud client protocol. In some embodiments this supplemental communication channel may be referred to as a software USB redirection or auxiliary channel.

In another embodiment two uplink network connections may be provided on a single zero client device where one connection is dedicated principally to peripheral communication e.g. USB remoting and the other for communication with the server or cloud. For example the communications processing unit may include two uplink network connections including a first uplink network connection included in the housing for in band network communications for the transcoding processing unit and a second uplink network connection also included in the housing for out of band network communications via the software based USB remoting protocol.

In a variation of the above two uplink based embodiment an optional switch may be integrated that combines the two uplinks into a single uplink. This switch may be of any speed but preferentially implements 1 Gbps or 10 Gbps or higher connectivity to allow for sufficient bandwidth to support peripheral traffic acceleration via the out of band channel described above.

In a further embodiment USB 3.0 redirection may be implemented by integrating a USB 3.0 host controller with the communications processing unit and allowing redirection to occur over the software USB redirection channel. Note that even if the zero client protocol and decode processing unit does not support USB 3.0 this technique may allow the end user to utilize USB 3.0 devices at higher data rates.

In one embodiment the zero client device may communicate with the server via a zero client protocol that does not support USB 3.0 and where the transcoding processing unit does not support USB 3.0. In this case the communications processing unit may further include a USB 3.0 host controller that implements out of band redirection via the software based USB remoting protocol thereby facilitating high speed out of band communications with USB 3.0 compliant peripheral devices.

In yet another embodiment a software stack may be executed on the communications processing unit and may detect which remote host or VM the transcoding processing unit is connected to. Upon detection the out of band USB session with the same host may be initiated using the USB redirection software running on the communications processing unit.

In some embodiments the one or more ports for out of band communications may include one or more of one or more audio ports or one or more video ports. In one exemplary embodiment the one or more ports for out of band communications may include one or more Thunderbolt ports.

In one embodiment the zero client device may communicate with the server via a zero client protocol that does not support Thunderbolt LightPeak i.e. LightPeak or the Thunderbolt implementation of LightPeak and where the transcoding processing unit does not support Thunderbolt LightPeak. Accordingly in some embodiments the communications processing unit may further include a Thunderbolt LightPeak host controller that implements out of band redirection via a software based Thunderbolt LightPeak remoting protocol thereby facilitating high speed out of band communications with Thunderbolt LightPeak compliant peripheral devices.

In another embodiment the communications processing unit may include or be coupled to one or more converters configured to convert between USB protocol and a respective one or more other communication protocols. The one or more ports for out of band communications may support out of band communications using the respective one or more other communication protocols.

In one embodiment the zero client device may further include a switch also included in the housing where the switch is included in or coupled to the communications processing unit and is further coupled to the uplink network connection. The switch may be configured to switch between in band network communications for the transcoding processing unit and out of band network communications via the software based USB remoting protocol. The switch may also support sufficient bandwidth to support peripheral traffic acceleration via the supplemental peripheral communication channel.

In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute a software stack to detect which server the zero client device is connected to and upon detection initiate the out of band USB session with the server via the software based USB remoting protocol.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software. The VPN session may enable communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In some embodiments communications over the out of band USB session may be encrypted and or compressed. Any encryption or data compression schemes may be used as desired. In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications in the out of band USB session.

In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to identify packets associated with a specified USB device. In other words the communications processing unit may be able to determine which USB devices are associated with which communication packets e.g. as senders or receivers of the packets. The communications processing unit may then present various options to the user that take advantage of this functionality. For example in some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to in response to user input log communications related to the specified USB device forward communications related to the specified USB device to a remote server whose address has been user configured in configuration settings of the communications processing unit prevent forwarding of packets on the out of band USB session related to the specified USB device or accelerate or prioritize transmission of packets on the out of band USB session related to the specified USB device among other actions.

Note that in various embodiments any combination of the above features may be used as desired. More generally any of the features described herein regarding any of the zero client device embodiments may be used in any combinations desired as noted above.

FIG. Integration of Multiple USB Based Display Adaptors USB Remoting Hardware and I O Devices with a Zero Client to Extend Display Capabilities

A zero or cloud client typically drives between 1 and 4 monitors. No solution presently available can drive more than 4 monitors from a single zero client. Thus in some embodiments multiple display i.e. video adaptors may be employed in or by the client system to provide a solution that may be scaled arbitrarily to drive a large number of monitors from a single client device.

As also shows in this embodiment the zero client system device may include one or more USB video adaptors or other types of serial video adaptors coupled to at least one of the one or more out of band USB extenders where each USB video adaptor may be configured to drive a respective additional display. In other words the system may include additional display adaptors e.g. USB VGA adaptors per each of which may drive one or more additional displays monitors . Note that in the embodiment shown these additional monitors are not driven by the transcoding processing unit. Rather each video adaptor receives video or display signals from one of the above out of band USB extenders integrated into the zero client device. In this particular embodiment each of two USB extenders supports two display adaptors although in other embodiments the ratio of out of band USB extenders to display adaptors may differ. Similarly other protocols extenders besides USB may be employed as desired. However it should be noted that in other embodiments the transcoding processing unit may be further configured to drive one or more additional displays.

It should be further noted that in various embodiments the out of band USB extenders and or the video adaptors may be implemented and or coupled in any of a variety of ways. For example in one embodiment one or more of the out of band USB extenders and or one or more of the video adaptors may be implemented on the first circuit board with the communications processing unit. In another embodiment one or more of the out of band USB extenders and or one or more of the video adaptors may be implemented on the same circuit board but distinct from the first circuit board . Any other implementations may be utilized as desired. Note that in the embodiment of the communications processing unit is communicatively coupled to both the out of band extenders and the video adaptors.

The following describes exemplary communications by the zero client device with a server via the communications and transcoding processing units.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired instantiate a USB or other serial protocol bus extension session between the one or more out of band USB extenders and the server and provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server. Accordingly the transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate a zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit. Note that the zero client session is distinct different from the USB extension session although in some embodiments both sessions may utilize the uplink network connection e.g. the same physical network connection.

The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server. The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit and transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session. Conversely the communications processing unit may also be configured to receive output data from the server over the network via the zero client session and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit. The transcoding processing unit may accordingly be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

Note that the one or more out of band USB extenders may be configured to provide video communications between the USB video adaptors and the server via the USB extension session through the communications processing unit. In other words in addition to communicating with the server via the zero client session the zero client device may further provide for out of band video communications with the server via the USB extenders e.g. for extended or auxiliary display functionality.

In one embodiment the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software where the VPN session enables communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In addition to the extra display adaptors and out of band USB extenders the exemplary embodiment shown in also includes an optional switch interposed between the optional communications processing unit e.g. running VPN software and the network. This switch may be configured to aggregate client data traffic and connect to the network via a single uplink similar to that described above.

Thus in one embodiment the client system or device may comprise a combination of out of band USB extenders USB VGA adaptors an optional switch for IP uplink consolidation an optional communications processing unit and a transcoding processing unit responsible for decoding a zero or cloud client protocol.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may implement one or more ports for out of band communications thereby implementing one or more supplemental peripheral communication channels. The one or more supplemental peripheral communication channels may be configured to provide USB remote redirection for USB peripherals coupled to the zero client device.

In one embodiment software that runs on the communications processing unit may detect the IP address or hostname of the remote server e.g. host to which the transcoding processing unit is connecting and may initiate a session between the out of band USB extenders and the server. Note that at least two types of USB extenders are contemplated i IP based i.e. configured to communicate over the network via IP protocol and ii non IP based such as RJ 45 based where the latter may require a homerun connection and may not traverse IP switches routers or hubs. Note that in embodiments using non IP based extenders the zero client device may include multiple RJ 45 ports respectively configured to provide respective homerun connections to the server.

As noted above in some embodiments the communications processing unit and or the uplink switch may be omitted. Thus for example in one embodiment the transcoding processing unit may include a network connection for communicating with a server over a network and may provide USB ports with which devices can be attached e.g. human interface devices such as keyboards or mice and or protocol conversion devices converters such as the USB RS 232 converter described above.

In further embodiments communications over the USB extension session may be encrypted and or compressed as desired.

Moreover in some embodiments the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications in the USB extension session.

In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to identify packets associated with a specified USB video adapter. In other words the communications processing unit may be able to determine which USB video adapter are associated with which communication packets e.g. as senders or receivers of the packets. The communications processing unit may then present various options to the user that leverage this functionality. For example in some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to in response to user input log communications related to the specified USB video adapter forward communications related to the specified USB video adapter to a remote server whose address has been user configured in configuration settings of the communications processing unit prevent forwarding of packets on the out of band USB session related to the specified USB video adapter or accelerate or prioritize transmission of packets on the out of band USB session related to the specified USB video adapter among other actions.

In one more specific exemplary embodiment the zero client device may include a housing a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and implemented on a first circuit board and a communications processing unit also included in the housing implemented on a second circuit board and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. The communications processing unit may be configured to connect to servers over a network. The zero client device may further include a Bluetooth transponder which is also included in the housing and coupled to the communications processing unit.

The communications processing unit may be configured to run an embedded operating system and may be configured with a device driver for the Bluetooth transponder for communications between the Bluetooth transponder and the embedded operating system. The device driver may be executable to provide for connection and enumeration of Bluetooth peripheral devices. As with the above embodiments the zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

The communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired and provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server and the transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate the zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit.

The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive first input data from one or more human interface devices encode the first input data thereby generating encoded input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session.

The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit receive second input data from one or more Bluetooth peripheral devices via the Bluetooth transponder and transmit the encoded input data and the second input data over the network to the server via the zero client session.

Conversely the communications processing unit may be configured to receive first and second output data from the server over the network via the zero client session send the first output data to the transcoding processing unit.

The transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive the first output data from the communications processing unit decode the first output data thereby generating decoded output data and send the decoded output data to the communications processing unit which may be further configured to receive the decoded output data from the transcoding processing unit and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices. Moreover the communications processing unit may be further configured to send the second output data to at least one of the one or more Bluetooth peripheral devices via the Bluetooth transponder.

Note however that keyboard mouse or other peripheral input received from the communications processing unit may be required to be passed on to the transcoding processing unit. In order to achieve this a keyboard mouse audio emulation device may be provided. Thus in some embodiments the zero client device may further include a microprocessor based keyboard mouse audio emulation device included in the housing and communicatively interposed between the communications processing unit and peripheral I O ports of the transcoding processing unit. The emulation device may function as a communication bridge between the transcoding processing unit and the communications processing unit and may be configured to receive the input data from the communications processing unit generate input events corresponding to the input data and provide the input events to the transcoding processing unit.

In other words the emulation device may take output generated from the communications processing unit and feed it directly into keyboard mouse and audio ports of the transcoding processing unit running the zero client protocol. For example if the x key is pressed on a Bluetooth keyboard the Bluetooth transponder may receive the appropriate signal e.g. custom software running on the communications processing unit may fetch the input from the keyboard buffer and transmit a signal to the connected keyboard mouse audio emulation device. The emulation device may be instructed to generate a key press event involving the x key. The emulation device accordingly generate a signal key press event which may be picked up by the transcoding processing unit via the keyboard input port as if a real keyboard were connected.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software. The VPN session may enable communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In some embodiments communications over the network communication channel may be encrypted and or compressed. Any encryption or data compression schemes may be used as desired. In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications over the network communication channel.

In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to identify packets associated with a specified Bluetooth device. In other words the communications processing unit may be able to determine which Bluetooth devices are associated with which communication packets e.g. as senders or receivers of the packets. The communications processing unit may then present various options to the user that take advantage of this functionality. For example in some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to in response to user input log communications related to the specified Bluetooth device forward communications related to the specified Bluetooth device to a remote server whose address has been user configured in configuration settings of the communications processing unit prevent forwarding of packets for the specified USB device or accelerate or prioritize transmission of packets related to the specified Bluetooth device among other actions.

In one exemplary embodiment the zero client device may be a mobile zero client device that includes a housing a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and implemented on a first circuit board and a communications processing unit also included in the housing implemented on a second circuit board and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. The communications processing unit may be configured to connect to devices over a network and may include a GPS Global Positioning System chip configured to provide location information of the zero client device. Accordingly the communications processing unit may be further configured with GPS coordinate access software for communicating with the GPS chip. The zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

The communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired and provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server. The transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate the zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit then receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session.

The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session receive output data from the server over the network via the zero client session and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit which may be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data thereby generating decoded output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

The coordinates obtained from the GPS chip can be stored e.g. archived to processor memory of the communications processing unit and used for any of a variety of purposes. For example in one embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to store coordinates obtained from the GPS chip to processor memory of the communications processing unit for use by the zero client device and for optional access via a remote management console or other network based entity and send coordinates obtained from the GPS chip to a specified connection broker or other server or service at a configurable temporal frequency. To determine the identifier of the server the communications processing unit may be configured to receive a network address of the server from the connection broker based on proximity of the server to the zero client device determined via the sent coordinates.

In another embodiment the communications processing unit may be configured to store coordinates obtained from the GPS chip to processor memory of the communications processing unit for use by the zero client device and for optional access via a remote management console or other network based entity send coordinates obtained from the GPS chip to a pre configured remote server at a configurable temporal frequency and either trigger a shut down of the mobile zero client in response to detecting that the device is outside an authorized area based on the coordinates obtained from the GPS chip or trigger destruction of the mobile zero client in response to detecting that the device is outside the authorized area based on the coordinates obtained from the GPS chip. For example in one embodiment destruction of the zero client device may simply involve damage to some critical component in the device that renders it irreversibly inoperable.

In one embodiment the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and the communications processing unit may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software wherein the VPN session enables communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In some embodiments communications over the network communication channel may be encrypted and or compressed. Any encryption or data compression schemes may be used as desired. In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications over the network communication channel.

In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to automatically modify data transmitted via the network communication channel by changing the protocol type or one or more connectivity parameters based on the location information of the zero client device provided by the GPS chip. The one or more connectivity parameters may include one or more of maximum transmission unit MTU or one or more IP TCP UDP stack connection parameters. Examples of IP TCP UDP stack connection parameters include but are not limited to tcp time wait interval tcp close wait interval tcp fin wait2 flush interval tcp keepalive interval tcp ip abort linterval tcp rexmit interval initial tcp rexmit interval min tcp ip abort interval tcp ip abort linterval tcp ipabort cinterval udp smallest anon port tcp smallest anon port udp largest anon port tcp largest anon port udp smallest nonpriv port tcp smallest nonpriv port tcp extra priv ports add udp extra priv ports add write only action tcp extra priv ports del udp extra priv ports del write only action tcp extra priv ports and udp extra priv ports among others.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may include configuration settings including one or more rules specifying location ranges associated with respective connectivity parameters.

Note that the novel functionalities of the above described embodiments depend not only on the GPS components e.g. the GPS chip within the housing of the zero client but also on at least one software application or program which executes or is implemented on the zero client communications processing unit or the transcoding processing unit which reads GPS coordinates from the GPS chip and performs or invokes one or more actions. For example in some embodiments the at least one program may to a transmit these coordinates to a central server which processes rules that guide the software application s behavior and actions e.g. wipe configuration data destroy firmware on the client in the event that the zero client device is removed from a secure facility and b transmit these coordinates back to a remote host to which the zero client is connected. As zero client communication protocols may not be designed to carry GPS coordinates or location data an auxiliary or redirection channel may be established between the software application running on the zero client communications processing unit and a e.g. small agent running on the remote host. The agent running on the remote host may receive the GPS data and in some embodiments may either invoke local processes which process the GPS data or cache the GPS data so that applications running on the remote system can query the agent for the current position of the zero client device.

FIG. Integration of Multi Boot Capability to Allow the Use of More Than One Zero Client Protocol From the Same Zero Client Device

More specifically in some exemplary embodiments the zero client device may include a housing and two or more transcoding processing units included in the housing where each of the two or more transcoding processing units is implemented on a respective first circuit board e.g. boards A B etc. with one circuit board per transcoding processing unit . Each of the two or more transcoding processing units may be configured to execute a respective zero client protocol.

The zero client device may further include a communications processing unit included in the housing implemented on a second circuit board and coupled to the two or more transcoding processing units. The communications processing unit may be configured to connect to devices over a network. As above the zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

In some embodiments the zero client device may be configured to receive user input selecting a zero client protocol of the two or more transcoding processing units for operation select and initialize a transcoding processing unit of the two or more transcoding processing units corresponding to the selected zero client protocol and establish a connection between the transcoding processing unit and human interface devices including one or more peripheral devices and a display device.

The communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired and provide a network communication channel to the selected transcoding processing unit for accessing the server. Accordingly the selected transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate a zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit.

Additionally the selected transcoding processing unit may be further configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session. The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the selected transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session receive output data from the server over the network via the zero client session andsend the output data to the selected transcoding processing unit which may be further configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices.

Thus multiple zero client protocols may be supported by respective selectable transcoding processing units in one zero client device.

In a further embodiment a KVM keyboard video mouse switch may be integrated within the zero client device e.g. included in the housing such that any one of the transcoding processing units may be connected to the display and peripherals e.g. human interface devices etc. while the other s still maintains an open connection with the server or host and remains fully functional. Thus the user may switch to other in progress zero or cloud client protocol connections by exercising a dial switch or button on a graphical user interface GUI for the client e.g. on the zero or cloud client s front panel which invokes the KVM to disconnect from the current transcoding processing unit and initiate a connection with a different transcoding processing unit e.g. the next transcoding processing unit in line.

In one embodiment all circuit boards cards etc. present in the zero client device may be powered by a single integrated power supply. In other words the zero client device may include a single integrated power supply included in the housing and configured to provide power to the zero client device.

Further in some embodiments an optional IP switch may be included in the client which may be configured to aggregate network connections uplinks from each of the two or more transcoding processing units present into a single external connection. This single connection may for example be located on the backpanel of the client housing i.e. enclosure or case.

Moreover in some embodiments one or more other processors may be included in the zero client device. For example one or more x86 ARM or PowerPC systems circuit or processor system boards may be included within the same enclosure with the two or more transcoding processing units running a zero client protocol. These individual systems may all be interfaced via a KVM switch that can be used to drive the local display and peripherals and connect them with any of the selected systems circuit or processor system boards . In another embodiment a physical front panel e.g. a graphical color LCD display front panel or any other display type may be provided which may function as a user interface to the KVM switch and which may provide an indication of which system e.g. of the decoder processing unit x86 ARM or PowerPC system the external peripherals e.g. user interface devices are currently connected to.

In one embodiment the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software where the VPN session enables communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In some embodiments each of the one or more processor system boards may be configured to connect to and communicate with the human interface devices and each of the two or more transcoding processing units and the one or more processor system boards may be configured to drive a respective display device coupled to the zero client device.

For example in one embodiment two or more of the transcoding processing units may be configured to connect to a display capable of accepting multiple inputs and providing Picture in Picture capability thereby allowing Picture in Picture display for simultaneous zero client sessions.

In some embodiments software based keyboard and mouse sharing may allow the keyboard and mouse to operate across all displays even though they are driven by different systems all housed within the client enclosure. Audio output may be multiplexed and fed to a speaker system via a single line out. Audio input may be aggregated so that a single microphone feeds all internal boards systems. In other words audio inputs to at least one transcoding processing unit and the one or more processor system boards may be aggregated so that a single microphone feeds the at least one transcoding processing unit and the one or more processor system boards.

In some embodiments communications over the zero client session may be encrypted and or compressed. Any encryption or data compression schemes may be used as desired. In one embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to execute Wide Area Network WAN optimization software to optimize remote communications in the zero client session.

In a further embodiment the communications processing unit may be further configured to identify packets associated with a specified zero client session. In other words the communications processing unit may be able to determine which zero client sessions are associated with which communication packets e.g. as senders or receivers of the packets. The communications processing unit may then present various options to the user that take advantage of this functionality. For example in some embodiments the communications processing unit may be configured to in response to user input log communications related to the specified zero client session forward communications related to the specified zero client session to a remote server whose address has been user configured in configuration settings of the communications processing unit prevent forwarding of packets for the zero client session or accelerate or prioritize transmission of packets related to the specified zero client session among other actions.

In one embodiment a microcontroller may control the KVM switching and may log a switching event every time a switch action is initiated by the user e.g. . The user may initiate this action by exercising a dial switch or button attached externally to the casing housing the switch. The logged event may be stored to memory attached to the microcontroller and may include a timestamp the port to which the session was switched i.e. the computing system board which was activated and or other attributes e.g. environmental elements which for example may include the ID of the user GPS coordinates obtained from an optionally integrated GPS chip and or other similar attributes. This log may be used for audit and security verification purposes.

In one embodiment the microcontroller may be programmed with rules on a one off basis or by obtaining a rule set from a network location. These rules may control some or all aspects of the operation of the switch. Exemplary examples of such rules may include 

c. if the user switches to Port A send a network event via SNMP Email Page or any other notification system 

g. if the user tries to switch away from Port B provide a warning or informational message on an optional LCD attached to the KVM enclosure. Note however that the above rules are exemplary only and are not intended to limit the rules implemented to any particular set of rules.

In another embodiment the microcontroller may optionally be connected to a network IP port so that a management console or other management software present on the same network can contact the microcontroller. Once contact is established this link can be used to perform any of various functions such as for example 

Note that the above actions are exemplary only and are not intended to limit the actions implemented to any particular set of actions. Note that each of the logging audit trail and rule based operational aspects described herein are unavailable with prior art systems.

In some embodiments the above secure KVM technique may be incorporated in a zero client device. For example in one embodiment the zero client device may include a housing a transcoding processing unit included in the housing and implemented on a first circuit board and a communications processing unit included in the housing implemented on a second circuit board and coupled to the transcoding processing unit. The communications processing unit may be configured to connect to devices over a network. The zero client device may further include one or more processor system boards also included in the housing as well as a KVM keyboard video mouse and USB switch included in the housing and configured to connect human interface devices to at least one of the one or more processor system boards or the transcoding processing unit in response to user input. The zero client device may have no user modifiable storage medium.

The communications processing unit may be configured to determine an identifier of a server to which connection is desired and provide a network communication channel to the transcoding processing unit for accessing the server. The transcoding processing unit may be configured to instantiate the zero client session with the server through the network communication channel provided by the communications processing unit and may be further configured to receive input data from one or more human interface devices via the KVM and USB switch encode the input data and provide the encoded input data to the communications processing unit for transmission over the network to the server via the zero client session.

The communications processing unit may be configured to receive the encoded input data from the transcoding processing unit transmit the encoded input data over the network to the server via the zero client session receive output data from the server over the network via the zero client session and send the output data to the transcoding processing unit which may be configured to receive the output data from the communications processing unit decode the output data and send the decoded output data to at least one of the one or more human interface devices via the KVM and USB switch.

In some embodiments the communications processing unit may include Virtual Private Network VPN software for securely connecting to the server over the network and may be further configured to instantiate a VPN session with the server via the VPN software. The VPN session may enable communications between components or devices connected to the communications processing unit and any systems or networks to which the server provides access.

In one embodiment the zero client device may further include a color display front panel included in or on the housing and coupled to the KVM and USB switch. The color display front panel may include or implement a user interface to the KVM and USB switch and provide an indication as to which of the one or more processor system boards and the at least one transcoding processing unit the user interface devices are currently connected.

The KVM and USB switch may be further configured to switchably and simultaneously connect each of the transcoding processing unit and the one or more processor system boards to a respective display device and the communications processing unit may be configured with program instructions implementing software based keyboard and mouse sharing that allows the keyboard and mouse to span all display devices coupled to the transcoding processing unit and the one or more processor system boards respectively.

In some embodiment audio output from the zero client device may be multiplexed and fed to a speaker system via a single line out and audio inputs to the zero client device may be aggregated so that a single microphone feeds the transcoding processing unit and the one or more processor system boards.

In further embodiments additional security related functionality may be provided in or by the KVM and USB switch and or the zero client device. For example in one embodiment the KVM and USB switch may include one or more tamper proof sensors configured to detect whether the housing has been opened. Exemplary sensors include but are not limited to light sensors contact sensors magnetic sensors or any other types of sensors that can detect whether the zero client housing has been opened.

Moreover in some embodiments the KVM and USB switch may be further configured to perform an action in response to at least one of the one or more tamper proof sensors detecting that the housing has been opened. Examples of actions that may be performed include but are not limited to one or more of disable itself i.e. the KVM and USB switch use electrical surges or programmed instructions to disable any connected zero client devices log the detection or use programmed instructions to send a tamper notification to a connected device of the detection wherein the tamper notification is useable by the connected device to take its own action e.g. disable itself log the detection or display the tamper notification visually etc. .

As indicated in in one exemplary embodiment the switch may include a microcontroller a memory coupled to the microcontroller a network connection coupled to the microcontroller for providing IP Internet Protocol connectivity to a remote server and switching circuitry coupled to the microcontroller. The switching circuitry may be configured to connect to multiple computing systems connect to one or more user interface devices or serial I O ports and receive user input instructing the switching circuitry to switch to any one of the multiple computing systems to which it is connected.

The memory may store program instructions executable by the microcontroller to configure the switching circuitry to connect any of the multiple computing systems to the one or more interface devices or serial I O ports and query a remote server via the network connection to determine whether the user input instructing the switching circuitry to connect to any of the multiple computing systems is permissible based on any of a variety of criteria including for example one or more of time of day a user identifier ID of the user providing the user input to the switching circuitry a geographical or network location of the switch a type geographical location IP address range or gateway of the network connection a server defined flag or semaphore or an ID of a computing system to which the switching circuitry is instructed to connect among others.

Thus in some embodiments the switch may include a microcontroller and memory similar to the KVM switch discussed above. Accordingly logging rules and network based management functionality similar to that described above may also be implemented as desired.

In one embodiment the one or more user interface devices may include one or more of one or more display devices a keyboard a mouse or a set of speakers among others.

In some embodiments the program instructions may be executable to configure the switching circuitry in response to user input to the switch selecting one of the multiple computing systems for a session and may be further executable by the microcontroller to log an event in the memory in response to each switch action initiated by the user. The logged event may include but is not limited to one or more of a timestamp or a port or computing system to which the session was switched. The log may be useable for audit and security verification purposes as desired. In one embodiment the logged event may further include the ID of the user. In some embodiments the switch may further include a GPS global positioning system chip configured to provide GPS coordinates of the switch. The logged event may accordingly further include GPS coordinates obtained from the GPS chip when the switch action was initiated. In some embodiments the program instructions may be further executable by the microcontroller to implement switching rules for the switch.

In one embodiment the switch may also include a network IP port for connecting to a network and the program instructions may be further executable by the microcontroller to connect the switch to a network device with management software and perform one or more functions in response to input from the management software.

Additionally in some embodiments communications over the network connection may be encrypted and or compressed via any encryption or compression schemes desired. Moreover in one embodiment the memory may store Wide Area Network WAN optimization software executable by the microcontroller to optimize communications over the network connection.

It should be noted that each of the above described system embodiments may be used to perform corresponding methods where each system element performs its respective functionality during operation of the system as a method element.

Various embodiments may further include receiving or storing instructions and or information implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a carrier medium. Suitable carrier media may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD ROM as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link.

Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. Accordingly this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the general manner of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood that the forms of the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as the presently preferred embodiments. Elements and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein parts and processes may be reversed and certain features of the invention may be utilized independently all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description of the invention. Changes may be made in the elements described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the following claims.

