---

title: Robotic exoskeleton for limb movement
abstract: This invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton comprising mechanical linkages that couple to one or more selected joints of a limb of a subject. The robotic exoskeleton may be provided with means for obtaining data respecting angular position, torque, and/or acceleration of at least one of the joints or the links of the mechanical linkages, and may be used for assessing, studying, diagnosing a deficit, and/or treating an impairment in sensorimotor function of a limb of a subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08800366&OS=08800366&RS=08800366
owner: Queen's University at Kingston
number: 08800366
owner_city: Kingston
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121113
---
This is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 149 462 filed on May 1 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 347 710 issued on Jan. 8 2013 and claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 924 135 filed on May 1 2007 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates generally to a robotic exoskeleton that attaches to a subject s limb for use in areas such as assessment rehabilitation and or research involving motor function. In particular the invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton that provides off axis mechanical coupling of one or more joints of a limb of a subject. The invention also relates to a robotic exoskeleton having coupling between two or more joints wherein spacing between joints is easily adjustable to accommodate different limb sizes. The invention also relates to robotic exoskeletons having combinations of such features.

Stroke physical injury and disease are causes of impairment of motor function involving one or more limbs. It is often possible to recover some motor function through rehabilitation and practicing functional multi joint movements with the impaired limb is an important part of motor recovery Dobkin 2004 . Current therapeutic techniques therefore focus on training with repetitive frequent functional movements Teasell et al. 2003 .

Providing patients with the attention they need is a challenge. Each patient requires extensive one on one attention and therapy programs are physically exhausting for the therapist. The use of robotic devices to provide therapy would improve efficiency and effectiveness of the therapy and this has been at the forefront of recent stroke rehabilitation research Hesse et al. 2003 Reinkensmeyer et al. 2004 . Robots not only have the ability to provide repetitive functional movement training but also can provide sensitive and objective quantitative assessments of movement. The technology also makes it possible for a single therapist to supervise multiple patients simultaneously.

Existing robots for upper limb rehabilitation and assistance include MIT MANUS Krebs et al. 1998 MIME Burgar et al. 2000 GENTLE s Loureiro et al. 2003 MULOS Johnson et al. 2001 T WREX Sanchez et al. 2004 ARMEO available from Hocoma AG Switzerland Sanchez et al. 2006 ARMin Mihelj et al. 2006 Mihelj et al. 2007 and KINARM Scott 1999 among others. Exoskeleton robotic devices have the advantage of direct control over limb joint function which allows independent control of each DOF of the limb. This ensures that compensatory movements by a subject can be monitored and or prevented. A drawback of exoskeleton devices is that coupling of the robotic linkage to the subject s limb requires alignment of the axes of the limb joint and the corresponding robot joint. With current exoskeleton robots this results in parts of the robot being located close to the subject which may be intimidating to some subjects.

A further drawback of current robotic devices is that they cannot match the full mobility of the human upper limb. This is particularly true for the shoulder complex because it has a compact arrangement of five major degrees of freedom DOF two at the sternoclavicular joint and three at the glenohumeral joint. The glenohumeral joint can be approximated as a ball and socket joint and has been replicated in some current devices. However the shoulder girdle has been neglected despite its importance in stabilizing and orienting the upper limb. Without direct control at the sternoclavicular joint it is not possible to prevent the subject from making compensatory movements nor is there a way to properly regain strength and coordination of the shoulder girdle.

One aspect of the invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton comprising mechanical linkage that couples to a selected joint of a limb of a subject the mechanical linkage including at least one joint having articulation about an axis and limb attaching means for attaching the limb to the mechanical linkage wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along an axis of the selected joint of the limb.

The mechanical linkage may define a virtual joint at a point not located on the mechanical linkage and the virtual joint may be coupled to the selected joint of the limb when the limb is attached to the mechanical linkage.

In one embodiment the mechanical linkage may comprise a plurality of links interconnected for articulation therebetween so as to define two parallelogram structures the two parallelogram structures sharing at least portions of two links one said parallelogram having a virtual side defined between two corners the two corners fixed to ground.

In another embodiment the mechanical linkage may comprise two or more solid links and at least one cable.

In another embodiment the mechanical linkage may comprise a curved track with a circular curvature a carriage associated with the curved track and one or more of i two or more links interconnected for articulation therebetween and connected at one point to the carriage ii at least one cable connected at one point to the carriage and at least at one point to the track and iii means associated with the carriage for driving and or resisting movement of the carriage on the track.

The mechanical linkage may further comprise at least one motor for moving the mechanical linkage and or resisting movement of the mechanical linkage via the cables.

The robotic exoskeleton may couple first and second joints of the limb of the subject wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along an axis of the first joint of the limb. The exoskeleton may provide two degrees of freedom DOF one DOF for each of the first and second joints of the limb.

The robotic exoskeleton may couple to first second and third joints of the limb of the subject wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along an axis of the first joint of the limb. The robotic exoskeleton may provide three degrees of freedom DOF one DOF for each of the first second and third joints of the limb.

The limb may be an arm or a leg. The selected joint may be the sternoclavicular joint the glenohumeral joint the elbow the wrist the hip the knee or the ankle.

In another embodiment the exoskeleton couples to first second and third joints of the limb of the subject and provides up to six degrees of freedom DOF two DOF for the first joint of the limb three DOF for the second joint of the limb and one DOF for the third joint of the limb wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along one or more of the axes of the first joint of the limb. The exoskeleton may be adjusted for motion only within a plane.

In another embodiment the exoskeleton couples to first second third and fourth joints of the limb of the subject and provides two DOF for the first joint of the limb three DOF for the second joint of the limb and one or two DOF for the third joint of the limb and one two or three DOF for the fourth joint of the limb wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along one or more of the axes of the first joint of the limb.

The limb may be the arm wherein the first and second joints may be the sternoclavicular and the glenohumeral joints of the shoulder and the third and fourth joints may be the elbow and the wrist.

The robotic exoskeleton may further comprise means for obtaining data respecting angular position torque and or acceleration of at least one of the joints or the links of the mechanical linkage.

At least a portion of the mechanical linkage may be adjustable for limbs of different length wherein the mechanical linkage is a closed loop structure so that links do not require length adjustment when the mechanical linkage is adjusted for limbs of different length.

Joints of the mechanical linkage may be coupled by cables wherein the mechanical linkage is a closed loop structure so that cables do not require length and or tension adjustment when the mechanical linkage is adjusted for limbs of different length.

According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method for assessing studying diagnosing a deficit in and or treating an impairment in motor function of a limb of a subject comprising coupling a selected joint of the limb about a particular axis to a mechanical linkage of a robotic exoskeleton wherein mechanical linkage of the robotic exoskeleton is not located on or along the particular axis of the selected joint of the limb and wherein articulation of the robotic exoskeleton is related to motor function of the selected joint of the limb.

The mechanical linkage may define a virtual joint at a point not located on the mechanical linkage and coupling may include coupling the selected joint of the limb about a particular axis to the virtual joint of the mechanical linkage.

In one embodiment coupling may include coupling first and second joints of the limb of the subject to the mechanical linkage wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along an axis of the first joint of the limb. The exoskeleton may provide two degrees of freedom DOF one DOF for each of the first and second joints of the limb.

In another embodiment coupling may include coupling first second and third joints of the limb of the subject to the mechanical linkage wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along one or more of the axes of the first joint of the limb. The exoskeleton may provide three degrees of freedom DOF one DOF for each of the first second and third joints of the limb.

In another embodiment coupling may include coupling first second and third joints of the limb and provides up to six degrees of freedom DOF two DOF for the first joint of the limb three DOF for the second joint of the limb and one DOF for the third joint of the limb wherein mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton is not located on or along one or more of the axes of the first joint of the limb.

Investigating may comprise obtaining data respecting angular position torque and or acceleration of at least one joint or link of the mechanical linkage the data corresponding to angular position torque and or acceleration of one or more joints of the limb.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton comprising a first mechanical linkage that couples to a first selected joint of a limb of a subject the first mechanical linkage including links for said coupling to the first selected joint with at least one joint having articulation about an axis and limb attaching means for attaching the limb to the linkage wherein the first mechanical linkage defines a virtual joint having an axis that is not located on the mechanical linkage wherein the virtual joint is coupled to the first selected joint of the limb when the limb is attached to the linkage and wherein the first mechanical linkage is not located on or along an axis of the coupled first selected joint of the limb.

The first mechanical linkage may comprise a plurality of links interconnected for articulation therebetween so as to define two four bar structures the two four bar structures sharing at least portions of two links one said four bar structure having a virtual link defined between two corners the two corners fixed to ground. At least one of the four bar structures may be a parallelogram.

In some embodiments the first mechanical linkage may comprise two or more links and at least one cable. In another embodiment the first mechanical linkage may comprise a curved track a carriage associated with the curved track and two or more links interconnected for articulation therebetween and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track.

The robotic exoskeleton may further comprise at least one motor for moving the first mechanical linkage and or resisting movement of the first mechanical linkage.

The robotic exoskeleton may further comprise a second mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject the second mechanical linkage including links for said coupling to the second selected joint with at least one joint having articulation about an axis wherein a joint of the second mechanical linkage is located on or along an axis of the second selected joint of the limb.

In one embodiment the first mechanical linkage may comprise a plurality of links interconnected for articulation therebetween so as to define at least one four bar structure and the second mechanical linkage comprises a plurality of links interconnected for articulation therebetween. In another embodiment the plurality of links may define at least one parallelogram structure.

One or more links of the first mechanical linkage may be shared with one or more links of the second mechanical linkage. The first mechanical linkage may comprise a curved track a carriage associated with the curved track and two or more links interconnected for articulation therebetween and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track and the second mechanical linkage comprises a plurality of links interconnected with pulleys and cables for articulation therebetween. Articulation of the exoskeleton may be within a plane.

The robotic exoskeleton may further comprise a third mechanical linkage that couples to a third selected joint of the limb of the subject the third mechanical linkage including links for said coupling to the third selected joint with at least one joint having articulation about an axis wherein a joint of the third mechanical linkage is located on or along an axis of the third selected joint of the limb.

Two or more of the first mechanical linkage the second mechanical linkage and the third mechanical linkage may share one or more links. The first mechanical linkage may comprise a curved track a carriage associated with the curved track and two or more links interconnected for articulation therebetween and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track the second mechanical linkage may comprise a plurality of links interconnected with pulleys and cables for articulation therebetween and the third mechanical linkage may comprise a plurality of links interconnected with pulleys and cables for articulation therebetween. Articulation of the exoskeleton may be within a plane.

The robotic exoskeleton may further comprise a second mechanical linkage that couples to the first selected joint of the limb of the subject the first and second mechanical linkages providing two degrees of freedom to the first selected joint or a second mechanical linkage that couples to the first selected joint of the limb of the subject and a third mechanical linkage that couples to the first selected joint of the limb of the subject the first second and third mechanical linkages providing three degrees of freedom to the first selected joint wherein the second mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb and wherein the third mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a third axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb.

 ii a third mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject and a fourth mechanical linkage that couples to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject the third and fourth mechanical linkages providing two degrees of freedom to the second selected joint and

 iii a third mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject a fourth mechanical linkage that couples to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject and a fifth mechanical linkage that couples to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject the third fourth and fifth mechanical linkages providing three degrees of freedom to the second selected joint 

wherein the second mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb 

wherein the third mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a first axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb 

wherein the fourth mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb and

wherein the fifth mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a third axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb.

The robotic exoskeleton may further comprise a sixth mechanical linkage that couples to a third selected joint of the limb of the subject wherein the sixth mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the third selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to an axis of rotation of the third selected joint of the limb.

In the above embodiments at least one of the first mechanical linkage the second mechanical linkage the third mechanical linkage the fourth mechanical linkage and the fifth mechanical linkage may comprise a curved track a carriage associated with the curved track and two or more links interconnected for articulation therebetween and connected at one point to the carriage and at another point to a fixed location relative to the curved track. Two or more of the first mechanical linkage the second mechanical linkage the third mechanical linkage the fourth mechanical linkage and the fifth mechanical linkage may share one or more links.

The robotic exoskeleton of any of the above embodiments may further comprise means for obtaining data respecting angular position torque and or acceleration of at least one of the joints or the links of the mechanical linkage.

The robotic exoskeleton of any of the above embodiments may be configured for motion only within a plane.

In another embodiment the robotic exoskeleton may comprise a first mechanical linkage that couples to a first selected joint of a limb of a subject the first mechanical linkage including at least two links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about a first axis that corresponds to an axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb and limb attaching means for attaching the limb to the linkage wherein the first axis of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with the axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb wherein a second axis of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with an axis of rotation of a second selected joint of the limb the second selected joint of the limb being the next joint which is distal or proximal to the first selected joint of the limb and wherein a distance between the first and second axes of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is variable and proper performance of the mechanical linkage is maintained without adjusting length of links of the mechanical linkage.

In another embodiment the robotic exoskeleton may comprise the mechanical linkage described above for coupling to a first selected joint of a limb and a second mechanical linkage that couples to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject the second mechanical linkage including at least two links for said coupling to the second selected joint and having articulation about a second axis that corresponds to an axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb wherein the second axis of rotation of the second mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with the axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb wherein a third axis of rotation of the second mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with an axis of rotation of a third selected joint of the limb the third selected joint of the limb being the next joint which is distal or proximal to the second selected joint of the limb and wherein a distance between the second and third axes of rotation of the second mechanical linkage is variable and proper performance of the second mechanical linkage is maintained without adjusting length of links of the second mechanical linkage.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for assessing studying diagnosing a deficit and or treating an impairment in sensorimotor function of a limb of a subject comprising coupling a first mechanical linkage to a first selected joint of a limb of a subject the first mechanical linkage including links for said coupling to the first selected joint with at least one joint having articulation about an axis obtaining data relating to angular position torque and or acceleration of at least one joint or link of the mechanical linkage the data corresponding to angular position torque and or acceleration of one or more joints of the limb and using the data to assess study diagnose a deficit and or treat an impairment in sensorimotor function wherein the first mechanical linkage defines a virtual joint having an axis that is not located on the mechanical linkage wherein the virtual joint is coupled to the first selected joint of the limb and wherein the first mechanical linkage is not located on or along an axis of the coupled first selected joint of the limb.

The method may further comprise coupling a second mechanical linkage to a second selected joint of the limb the second mechanical linkage including links for said coupling to the second selected joint with at least one joint having articulation about an axis wherein a joint of the second mechanical linkage is located on or along an axis of the second selected joint of the limb.

The method may further comprise coupling a third mechanical linkage to a third selected joint of the limb the third mechanical linkage including links for said coupling to the third selected joint with at least one joint having articulation about an axis wherein a joint of the third mechanical linkage is located on or along an axis of the third selected joint of the limb.

The method may further comprise coupling a second mechanical linkage to the first selected joint of the limb the first and second mechanical linkages providing two degrees of freedom to the first selected joint or coupling a second mechanical linkage and a third mechanical linkage to the first selected joint of the limb the first second and third mechanical linkages providing three degrees of freedom to the first selected joint wherein the second mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb and wherein the third mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a third axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb.

The method may further comprise one of i coupling a third mechanical linkage to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject ii coupling a third mechanical linkage to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject and coupling a fourth mechanical linkage to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject the third and fourth mechanical linkages providing two degrees of freedom to the second selected joint and iii coupling a third mechanical linkage to a second selected joint of the limb of the subject coupling a fourth mechanical linkage to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject and coupling a fifth mechanical linkage to the second selected joint of the limb of the subject the third fourth and fifth mechanical linkages providing three degrees of freedom to the second selected joint wherein the second mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb wherein the third mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a first axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb wherein the fourth mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a second axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb and wherein the fifth mechanical linkage includes links for said coupling to the second selected joint and having articulation about an axis that corresponds to a third axis of rotation of the second selected joint of the limb.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for assessing studying diagnosing a deficit and or treating an impairment in sensorimotor function of a limb of a subject comprising coupling a first mechanical linkage to a first selected joint of a limb of a subject the first mechanical linkage including at least two links for said coupling to the first selected joint and having articulation about a first axis that corresponds to an axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb obtaining data relating to angular position torque and or acceleration of at least one joint or link of the mechanical linkage the data corresponding to angular position torque and or acceleration of one or more joints of the limb and using the data to assess study diagnose a deficit and or treat an impairment in sensorimotor function wherein the first axis of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with the axis of rotation of the first selected joint of the limb wherein a second axis of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is substantially collinear with an axis of rotation of a second selected joint of the limb the second selected joint of the limb being the next joint which is distal or proximal to the first selected joint of the limb and wherein a distance between the first and second axes of rotation of the first mechanical linkage is variable and proper performance of the mechanical linkage is maintained without adjusting length of links of the mechanical linkage.

Impaired sensorimotor function of one or more of a subject s limbs may be caused by stroke physical injury i.e. trauma or disease and combinations of these. Research in areas such as sensorimotor function in normal and impaired individuals and diagnosing assessing and or treating i.e. rehabilitation therapy of sensorimotor function in individuals with such impairments may advantageously employ a robotic device.

As used herein the term limb refers to a limb or portion thereof and may refer to either an upper limb or a lower limb.

One aspect of the invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton for use with a subject s limb. The robotic exoskeleton includes a mechanical linkage also referred to herein as a linkage having links or segments connected at articulating joints. The limb which may be an upper or lower limb and which may or may not be impaired is attached to the exoskeleton. Attaching the limb to the exoskeleton couples one or more joints of the limb to one or more joints of the mechanical linkage. Sensors e.g. encoders torque sensors accelerometers for obtaining data relating to position angle acceleration force e.g. torque etc. of one or more joints and or segments the limb may be deployed on and or associated with the mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton.

Another aspect of the invention relates to assessing and or rehabilitating and or studying sensorimotor function of a subject with impaired motor function. The subject whose limb is attached to the exoskeleton may be instructed to carry out one or more tasks or the limb may be guided through one or more tasks by the robotic exoskeleton. Encoders may be mounted on and or associated with the joints and or segments of the exoskeleton to provide accurate joint angle measurements and to enhance position control performance. Data relating to movement of the limb may be collected during such tasks. Such data may relate to position angle acceleration force e.g. torque etc. of one or more joints and or segments of a limb.

A robotic exoskeleton according to the invention may also be used in research applications to study sensorimotor function and or proprioception i.e. position sense and kinesthesia in individuals. For example the robotic exoskeleton may be used to investigate how sensory information respecting a limb is used for a broad range of sensory and motor functions. The robotic exoskeleton may be useful for obtaining such data from normal healthy individuals and also from individuals with brain injury and or neurological disorders in which such sensorimotor and or proprioception are impaired as it may aid one or more of assessment diagnosis treatment management and therapy for such individuals. Use of the robotic exoskeleton with subjects limbs not having impaired sensorimotor function may provide control data.

For the case where a joint of a limb has only one axis of rotation the term coupling as used herein refers to the joining of a joint of the mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton to a joint of the limb. Such joining of joints occurs when the kinematics and kinetics about one axis of each of the two joints are related meaning that motion or torque about an axis at one joint will produce a related motion or torque about an axis of the other joint. Depending on the mechanism of coupling the motion or torque between the coupled joints may be related linearly e.g. one to one proportionally or in some other predictable relationship. The axis of the joint of the limb and the axis of the joint of the mechanical linkage may or may not be substantially aligned e.g. coaxial or collinear . If the axes are aligned this will be referred to herein as collinear coupling. If they are not aligned this will be referred to herein as remote coupling. Remote coupling may be achieved off axis wherein none of the mechanical linkage or other parts of the exoskeleton is located on or along the axis of the selected joint of the limb. Remote coupling may also be achieved on axis wherein part of the mechanical linkage and or other part of the exoskeleton is located on or along the axis of the selected joint of the limb. The term coupling may also refer to the joining of a first joint of the mechanical linkage to a second joint of the mechanical linkage.

When a joint of a limb has two or more degrees of freedom the limb joint may be represented by two or more axes of rotation that intersect at the centre of rotation of the limb joint. These axes may be referred to as limb joint axes. The centre of rotation of the limb may also be referred to as the limb joint centre. For the case where a joint of a limb has two or more axes of rotation the term coupling as used herein refers to the joining of a joint of the mechanical linkage of the exoskeleton to a limb joint axis. An example of this is provided in section 4.

As used herein the term ground is intended to mean a point relative to the robotic exoskeleton to which a portion or joint of the mechanical linkage is fixedly attached. The ground may be referred to as a reference point. The ground may be established on part of the chassis or framework associated with the robotic exoskeleton.

Whereas the below embodiments are described with respect to the joints of the upper limb it will be appreciated that the embodiments may be configured for use with other joints such as for example the hip knee etc. and may have N degrees of freedom i.e. single DOF two DOF three DOF etc. . According to the embodiments described herein information data the execution of tasks etc. relating to the multiple joints of a limb may be obtained carried out independently and or simultaneously for the joints concerned.

Insofar as the terms first second third etc. are used herein with respect to joints of a mechanical linkage or joints of a limb such use shall not be construed as implying any anatomical relationship between the joints or a consecutive order of the joints. For example a first joint is not to be construed as being more proximal or more distal to the body than a second joint or a third joint. Rather such use of first second third etc. is intended to distinguish among multiple joints of a mechanical linkage or of a limb as the case may be.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton including a mechanical linkage having articulation about a plurality of joints wherein the articulation defines a virtual joint of the mechanical linkage. As used herein the term virtual joint refers to a point not located on the mechanical linkage that would form a joint if two or more links were extended so as to intersect at that point. When attached to a subject s limb the mechanical linkage provides coupling of the virtual joint to a selected joint of the limb such that there is no mechanical linkage or other parts of the exoskeleton located on or along the axis of the selected joint of the limb. Such coupling of a joint of a limb is referred to herein as off axis remote coupling. For example the vertical axis of the glenohumeral joint runs through the body and is close to the head above the shoulder however a robotic linkage according to this embodiment of the invention may be coupled to this joint about the vertical axis without placing any of the mechanical linkage substantially above or below the shoulder. Among the advantages of this approach is the fact that the motors used to drive the robotic linkage are no longer required to be located above the shoulder adjacent to the subject s head as they were in prior robotic devices see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 155 993 issued Dec. 5 2000 to Scott . Rather this embodiment allows the driving motors to be located below the mechanical linkage and away from the subject which increases the subject s comfort. It will of course be appreciated that the approach described herein that permits such alignment may be generalized to other limbs joints of the body such as the sternoclavicular joint hip knee etc.

Two examples of mechanical linkages that may be used to achieve off axis remote coupling according to the invention are described below.

There are several ways to drive the carriage on a curved track. Previous examples indicate that the carriage may be driven directly by a motor mounted on the carriage wherein the motor is geared to the track see for example U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0115954 A1 published on Jun. 26 2003 to Zemlyakov and McDonough . There are also several cable or belt driven implementations in which a cable or a belt is routed along the curved track across the carriage. The cable or belt is fixed to each end of the track and around an actuated shaft that is not collinear with the track. Rotation of the shaft has the end result of pulling the carriage along the track or moving the track relative to the carriage see for example Nef et al. 2005 Mihelj et al. 2007 Frisoli et al. 2005 Perry et al. 2006 and also U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008 0009771 A1 published on Jan. 10 2008 to Perry and Rosen . Typically the actuator that drives this motion is attached to the carriage so the actuator moves along with the carriage but the actuator can be remotely located using cables.

In the embodiment shown in the carriage is driven by links and where link may be connected to one or more driving motors. A four bar mechanical linkage is formed by links the virtual link and the fixed link joining and the shoulder joint axis and in this case the structure does not form a parallelogram although it could depending on its configuration. A parallelogram has the advantage of providing a simple linear relationship between the motion and torque of joint and the motion and torque of joint . The mechanical linkage including links is supported at joint and by the carriage . It will be appreciated that because this mechanical linkage may be supported at both its proximal end e.g. at joint and at the track it avoids some of the problems associated with compliance i.e. movement of the mechanical linkage in a direction out of the plane . Compliance can be a problem for robotic exoskeletons that are supported only at one end. In addition when configured for use with the subject s arm all parts of the exoskeleton may be located away from the subject s head either behind the subject or under the arm. This contributes to a more pleasant experience for the subject.

In the embodiment shown in the linkage coupled to the carriage has low compliance. In contrast the previous designs described above use gears or cables which suffer from compliance and backlash. Also in the carriage is directly coupled to joint which has a fixed position relative to the track. This means that the actuator coupled to the carriage does not move along with the carriage. This reduces the inertia of the linkage substantially.

It should be noted that mechanical coupling of the carriage using links and may also be accomplished using cables e.g. one cable pulling for extension one for flexion or some other type of actuation about joint .

The approach described above for off axis remote coupling between the exoskeleton and a limb joint may be extended to more complex situations. For example there may be translation of a limb joint s axis of rotation during joint articulation such that the position of the joint s instantaneous axis of rotation varies depending on the joint angle. An example of this situation is the knee joint Zatsiosky 1998 . In this case the off axis remote coupling mechanisms described in Sections 1.1 and 1.2 may be adapted to capture this complexity by guiding the virtual joint along a prescribed trajectory that matches the trajectory of the instantaneous axis of rotation of the limb joint as the limb joint angle changes.

For example the embodiments of to lmay be modified by replacing one or both of the two parallelograms with four bar structures that are not parallelograms. In such an embodiment the instantaneous virtual joint axis will move along a well defined trajectory. The embodiment of illustrates an example of off axis remote coupling to a virtual joint where both parallelograms are four bar linkages that are not parallelograms. shows multiple instances of the embodiment of superimposed as the linkage is stepped through a motion. The dashed lines indicate the virtual link at each step and the thick line joining the end points of the dashed lines traces the trajectory of the instantaneous virtual joint axis. In this example it is apparent that the steps in the middle of the motion primarily exhibit rotation with little or no translation while the steps at the beginning and end of the motion exhibit relatively more translation. Changing the lengths of the links in the mechanical linkage the location of the linkage joints and or the position of the fixed corners of the linkage changes the shape of the trajectory of the instantaneous virtual joint axis including the relative combination of rotation and translation.

In another example the embodiment of may be modified to replace the curved track of constant radius with a curved track of varying radius. In such an embodiment the instantaneous virtual joint axis defined by the track will be constrained to a well defined trajectory. The embodiment of illustrates off axis remote coupling of a virtual joint for an elliptical track although the track may be any desired curvature . shows the location of the virtual link dashed lines as the linkage is stepped through a motion. The thick line joining the end points of the dashed lines traces the trajectory of the instantaneous virtual joint axis. It is apparent that the steps in the middle of the motion primarily exhibit rotation with little or no translation while the steps at the beginning and end of the motion exhibit relatively more translation. Changing the curvature of the track changes the shape of the trajectory of the instantaneous virtual joint axis including the relative combination of rotation and translation.

A second situation to which the embodiments in and or may be applied is in an exoskeleton that captures the motion of more than one joint. For example there is a natural dependence between motion of the glenohumeral and sternoclavicular joints of the shoulder during reaching. is a top view schematic of the right limb sternoclavicular joint and the glenohumeral joint where the clavicle is shown by lines and the humerus is shown by lines as the aim makes a planar reaching movement. For sideways reaches the sternoclavicular joint does not contribute much to the overall shoulder motion. When a reach is made in front of the torso the sternoclavicular joint contributes more to the motion. Similarly the sternoclavicular joint contributes more to the motion as the reach is made backwards. The two joints have a natural coupling which can be described by a single virtual instantaneous axis of rotation. During parts of the motion that are primarily due to the glenohumeral joint the virtual instantaneous axis of rotation will be substantially collinear with the glenohumeral joint axis. During parts of the motion that are primarily due to the sternoclavicular joint the virtual instantaneous axis of rotation will be substantially collinear with the sternoclavicular joint axis. During parts of the motion that are a combination of glenohumeral and sternoclavicular motion the virtual instantaneous axis of rotation will exist somewhere between the glenohumeral and sternoclavicular joint axes. This is shown schematically in . The variable radius path is a trace of the end of the humerus in . The virtual instantaneous axis of rotation at a given point on is located at the centre of the circle that defines the curvature at that point. The thick line is a trace of the path that the virtual instantaneous axis of rotation follows during the reaching movement. Seven points along the path are shown in . The trajectory of the virtual instantaneous axis of rotation of this two joint system may be substantially mimicked using a mechanical linkage according to the embodiment illustrated in or using a curved track with varying radius as shown in the embodiment of

The problem being addressed by the embodiments in this section is how to on axis remotely couple a limb joint while accommodating subjects of varying sizes without having to modify the lengths of any of the linkage s structure beyond those that passively parallel the limb s geometry i.e. for interface purposes . For example in the KINARM Scott 1999 the KINARM s upper arm length must be adjusted for interface purposes to accommodate subjects of varying sizes. In addition the KINARM s coupler link must also be adjusted in length the KINARM s coupler link is part of the mechanical linkage that on axis remotely couples the elbow joint . The below embodiments provide mechanisms whereby for example the KINARM s upper arm length would be the only part of the linkage requiring adjustment for subjects of varying sizes.

In one embodiment a robotic exoskeleton includes a mechanical linkage having articulation about a plurality of joints wherein a first joint of the mechanical linkage is on axis remotely coupled to a second joint which is either a limb joint or another linkage joint that is substantially collinear with a limb joint. The following constraints also apply 

In another embodiment a robotic exoskeleton includes a mechanical linkage having articulation about a plurality of joints wherein an axis of one joint of the mechanical linkage is coupled to another joint of the linkage. Such coupling may be achieved between any two joints of the mechanical linkage that do not have collinear axes and in which the one joint hereafter referred to as the second coupled joint is located on a mechanical linkage having N joints where N 2 and the other joint hereafter referred to as the first coupled joint is located either on ground or on the same linkage. In some instances the first coupled joint may also be referred to as the driving joint and the second coupled joint may also be referred to as the on axis remote joint. The distance between the second coupled joint and the first coupled joint may be adjustable and or variable and the mechanical linkage may also have one or more of the following constraints 

It is noted that the embodiment of does not need to be adjusted for different elbow positions as the shoulder position moves or the shoulder rotates i.e. because the parallelogram structure is maintained by default as the mechanical linkage changes position .

It will be appreciated that the two parallelograms shown in may be replaced with any quadrilateral structures. However the advantage of using a parallelogram like structure as shown in is that it is easier to resolve the kinetic and kinematic relationship between the driving joint of the mechanical linkage and the on axis remotely coupled joint of the limb i.e. angles torques etc. are equal at the two joints . The parallelograms may also be replaced with structures other than quadrilaterals greater than 4 sides however structures having more links would have more degrees of freedom which would require control.

It will be appreciated that the two parallelograms defined by the links may also be formed using cables as shown by small dashes in . also shows how the mechanism maintains on axis remote coupling of the elbow joint as the shoulder joint is rotated. An example of such an embodiment is incorporated into the embodiments of and see section 3.2 .

It will be appreciated that it is not essential that the axes of the first and second coupled joints about which coupling will occur be parallel. For example shows an embodiment based on the curved track mechanical linkage of which provides articulation in a first plane indicated by arrow H and in a second plane indicted by arrow V. In this embodiment the second coupled joint the elbow is coupled by a cable system cables not shown . The cables form the equivalent of a two parallelogram structure but they may be guided in any direction so as to provide out of plane on axis remote coupling.

The embodiments described above may be combined in various ways to provide a robotic linkage suitable for coupling to multiple joints of a limb for subjects of varying sizes. Examples of such embodiments are described below.

The embodiment of provides a mechanical linkage for off axis mechanical coupling of a joint of a limb. This embodiment may be combined with that of to provide simultaneous off axis remote coupling of a first joint of a limb and on axis remote coupling of a second joint of a limb or more generally for any two joints of a limb . For example shows a bottom view of such an embodiment in which the mechanical linkages of and are combined to provide a four parallelogram exoskeleton. That is eight additional links to and are joined as rigid structures i.e. at a fixed relative angle such that the angle between them does not change as the rest of the mechanical linkage changes are added to the embodiment of to form two additional parallelogram structures. In the case of the arm as shown the shoulder joint is remotely coupled off axis and the elbow is the second limb joint that is remotely coupled on axis. In this embodiment the axis about which ground joint is remotely coupled on axis to the joint is not collinear with the axes of joints or of the mechanical linkage and the linkage can be adjusted for differences in the distance between the second joint elbow and the first joint shoulder without altering the parallelogram structure of the on axis remote joint elbow linkages or the parallelogram structure of the linkage providing off axis remote coupling to the first joint shoulder .

The embodiment shown in is substantially the same as that of but is implemented with fewer links so as to simplify the exoskeleton. Links and foam a seven link two parallelogram structure where links and are rigid structures i.e. at a fixed relative angle such that the angle between them does not change as the rest of the mechanical linkage changes. The mechanical linkage is shown in two positions corresponding to articulation of the forearm showing how the mechanical linkage behaves as the on axis remote joint in this example the elbow angle is changed. Two of the four parallelograms corresponding to the embodiment of are highlighted in . In this embodiment the ground joint that is on axis remotely coupled to the elbow joint is not aligned with the first joint of the mechanical linkage. Two of the links and in the seven link two parallelogram structure are shared with the links that drive the first joint although this does not have to be the case see below .

It is noted that in some embodiments such as that shown in to adjust the mechanical linkage for the length of the limb i.e. the upper arm the shoulder linkage i.e. the linkage corresponding to must be adjusted to maintain the parallelogram structure. Then the elbow linkage i.e. links of will no longer be a parallelogram structure so this linkage must be adjusted accordingly. This is because links and are shared between the shoulder and elbow linkages. However the embodiment of simplifies the task of setting up the exoskeleton for limbs of different sizes because the on axis remote joint elbow linkage i.e. links to of does not need to be adjusted if the limb length changes. The mechanical linkage pertaining to the proximal shoulder joint i.e. links of also does not need to be adjusted if the limb length changes because all that is required is to shift joint along link . The reduced requirement to adjust the linkage for different sizes of limbs reduces the possibility of errors in performance of the exoskeleton which might arise from an improperly adjusted mechanical linkage.

For some prior devices such as the robotic linkage disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 155 993 which includes a single parallelogram to adjust that mechanical linkage to a subject s elbow position two links of the parallelogram need to be adjusted to precisely the same length to maintain the parallelogram structure and proper linkage performance. Thus existing devices may be retrofitted with a mechanical linkage such as that shown in to mechanically couple a remote e.g. elbow joint and simplify adjustment of the exoskeleton to different limb lengths.

The embodiment of provides a mechanical linkage for off axis remote coupling of a joint of limb. This embodiment may be combined with the embodiment of to provide simultaneous off axis remote coupling of one joint of a limb and on axis remote coupling of another joint of the limb. shows such an embodiment providing two DOF of articulation in the case of the arm these correspond to one DOF at the shoulder and one DOF at the elbow. In the embodiment shown in one joint at is used to provide off axis remote coupling to joint the shoulder joint as in the embodiment of . This joint at connects rigidly to link and hence the carriage is driven about the shoulder joint axis . A second joint at is used to provide on axis remote coupling to joint the elbow joint as in the embodiment of . This second joint at which is not connected to link connects to closed loop cables shown as small dashes that on axis remotely couple to joint which is rigidly connected to link so that the elbow joint is driven. The cables form the equivalent of a seven link two parallelogram structure to drive the on axis remote joint elbow and are connected to a motor. The motors driving both joints at may also be back driven by the mechanical linkage. Two of the links and in the 7 link 2 parallelogram structure are shared with the links that couple the first joint shoulder although this does not have to be the case.

The embodiment of shows the same off axis and on axis remote coupling as except that both joints at are driven by an open ended cable system. In this embodiment neither of the joints at are rigidly connected to link . Three cables and are configured so that they act as a rigid connection to link and as on axis remote coupling to joint by applying appropriate combinations of forces to the cables. This open loop system drives both the shoulder and elbow joints and the cables are connected to motors . The motors may also be back driven by the mechanical linkage.

As shown in another embodiment provides a third DOF by addition of the joint . Where the arm is the limb of interest and the first two joints are the shoulder and elbow this third DOF corresponds to the wrist. This embodiment may be adapted for use with the leg in which case the three DOFs correspond to the hip knee and ankle.

The three DOF robotic exoskeleton shown in and was constructed based on the embodiment shown in . This embodiment combines a number of the previously described embodiments including the embodiment of for off axis remote coupling of the shoulder joint and on axis remote coupling of the elbow joint plus an embodiment of and to on axis remotely couple the wrist joint. The joint corresponding to the wrist is on axis remotely coupled to a driving joint corresponding to the elbow via the linkage shown in and the driving joint is on axis remotely coupled to a driving joint attached to ground via the linkage of

This embodiment thus extends one of the features of the embodiment of namely that a second coupled joint of a mechanical linkage such as for example a joint corresponding to the elbow relative to the shoulder may be coupled to a third joint such as for example a joint corresponding to the wrist relative to the shoulder and elbow so to as to provide an intermediate driving joint between two remotely coupled joints. That is a remotely coupled second joint of a mechanical linkage may be used as a driving joint for a subsequent third coupled joint of the linkage.

Note that in the embodiment of the lengths of virtual link upper arm and link forearm may be adjusted for different limb lengths without adjusting any of the other links in the mechanical linkage that provide the mechanical coupling i.e. links .

The hinged linkage driving the carriage also serves to guide the cables along the mechanism. A second linkage guides the cables between elbow and wrist joints. These linkages ensure that tension is maintained in the cables when the length of the mechanism is adjusted e.g. for different limb lengths . All links may be machined from aluminum or other suitable material to keep the mass and inertial properties low. Each joint may be provided with a mechanical limit to prevent the exoskeleton s movements from extending beyond the safe limits of a subject s limb.

In the embodiment shown in and all three DOFs may be actuated by an open ended cable drive system. Open ended cable systems can apply force in one direction only so it is necessary to have at least one more cable than DOF to achieve motion in both rotational directions at each joint. Thus four cables driven by electric motors are required to achieve full motion capability. It will be appreciated that a closed loop cable driven system may also be used for the embodiment shown in in a manner analogous to that described for the two DOF curved track mechanical linkage section 3.2 .

As a consequence of the imbalance between the number of cables and DOF in open loop cable drive systems additional transformations are required to relate motion of the motors to motion at the joints. First of all the cables span multiple joints so motion and torque about a single joint is shared among the cables. Also the position of the hinged linkage driving the carriage affects the length of the cables and therefore must be included in the calculations. Overall cable displacement s and joint angle are related using 1 . Likewise cable force and joint torque are related using 2 . These relationships are illustrated in .

Note the use of the subscript sd which refers to the shoulder driving joint i.e. joint not the shoulder joint angle i.e. joint which can be calculated using standard four bar linkage relations. The contribution of the hinged linkage motion to the cable displacement is denoted by .

The choice of cable routing scheme for an open ended cable drive system has a significant effect on the performance of the exoskeleton. In theory there are five unique cable routing schemes for a three DOF mechanical linkage Lee 1991 . The schemes were analyzed using the method proposed by Lee 1991 to find the choice which has minimal antagonism between cables and hence the most even distribution of forces across the cables and also has the lowest peak forces. illustrates the optimal routing scheme for the three DOF embodiment.

The elbow and wrist joint locations are adjustable as a result of utilization of the embodiments of to to accommodate subjects with different upper arm and forearm lengths. The elbow adjustment may be made by sliding the mechanism relative to the carriage. A single quick release clamp may be used to clamp the mechanism in place The forearm linkage may be telescopic and clamped by thumbscrews.

The subject is secured to the mechanism at the upper arm and forearm using arm troughs made of e.g. molded fiberglass which can be adjusted along the linkages. A handle may be provided for the subject to grasp. The troughs and the handle may be adjusted with a single thumb screw clamp. In addition to attaching the subject s arm to the exoskeleton it is necessary to align the shoulder joint with the robot. This may be achieved simply through adjustment of the chair position.

A dynamic model was created in MATLAB based on the robot toolbox Corke 1996 . Simulations were used to select appropriate motors and cables and to assist with structural design.

The model was defined as a standard rigid body manipulator with negligible cable dynamics. Dynamic parameters of the exoskeleton were estimates from CAD drawings and upper limb parameters were calculated from anthropometric data tables based on subject height and weight Winter 1990 . The model first calculated the joint torques required to achieve a given trajectory. The cable forces required to generate these joint torques were then calculated using the torque resolver technique which includes a pretension force to prevent the cables from becoming slack Lee 1991 . All forces and non axial moments at each joint were calculated to evaluate joint strength.

Simulations were performed for various reaching movements with a peak end point velocity of 1.0 m s. Movements included single joint motion through each joint s full range and a variety of multi joint reaching movements. In all cases anthropometric limb measurements were chosen to meet the maximum design requirements. Motors gear ratios cables and joint bearings were selected based on the results of these simulations. The overall torque capability of each joint of the exoskeleton with a gear ratio of 3 for each motor is 9 Nm static and 15 Nm dynamic . Each motor incorporates an electric brake to ensure that the cables remain in tension when the power is turned off. Each motor has a built in high resolution encoder capable of measuring joint angle in increments of 0.006 . In addition secondary encoders may be mounted directly to each of the three joints.

The exoskeleton was assembled and initial tests confirmed that joint angles were correctly calculated using cable length changes. The robot could be moved passively while pretension was applied to all cables and torques could be applied independently and across multiple joints. Basic position control was implemented and end point force fields simulating a virtual wall could also be applied. Measurements of the exoskeleton s friction inertia and compliance as seen by the joints of the limb were measured.

A limitation with currently available robotic exoskeletons is that few are capable of replicating the full range of motion of the human shoulder complex. In particular shoulder girdle motion is poorly replicated. A prior robotic device see U.S. Patent Publication No. US2003 0115954A1 provides two DOF at the sternoclavicular joint but in that design some equipment for these two axes is located on the two joint axes resulting in equipment being located near and around the user s head. The embodiment described below overcomes this limitation.

Accordingly another embodiment of the invention relates to a robotic exoskeleton that provides six degrees of freedom DOF allowing for the substantially full range of articulation of the upper limb to be assessed and or rehabilitated. When configured for use with the upper limb the robotic exoskeleton of the current embodiment provides independent control of all five major DOFs at the shoulder complex by coupling five exoskeleton joints to the five axes of rotation that represent the 5DOF of the shoulder complex. In particular 2 exoskeleton joints are coupled to the sternoclavicular joint with all equipment located behind the user and no equipment is placed above the user s head. This embodiment represents a substantial improvement over other known robotic devices which either cannot provide control of all five major DOFs of the shoulder complex or do so in a manner requiring equipment above and near the user s head. Key features of the exoskeleton include 

The term sternoclavicular joint axes as used herein refers to the two axes of rotation that represent the two DOF of the sternoclavicular joint and the term sternoclavicular joint centre as used herein refers to the point of intersection of the sternoclavicular joint axes. The term glenohumeral joint axes as used herein refers to the three axes of rotation that represent the three DOF of the glenohumeral joint and the term glenohumeral joint centre as used herein refers to the point of intersection of the glenohumeral joint axes.

By incorporating the design features described above the three dimensional 3 D exoskeleton provides beneficial features including but not limited to location of motors and mechanical linkage away from the subject s head. As with the planar exoskeleton described above the 3 D exoskeleton may be used for assessing and diagnosing motor function deficits in subjects as well as for rehabilitation therapy and research.

The shoulder elbow mechanism is a four DOF mechanism in which the three axes of a three DOF spherical joint are coupled to the three joint axes of the glenohumeral joint and a single rotary joint is coupled to the elbow joint. It is actuated entirely by a cable drive transmission which is driven by five electric motors located on the base ground of the exoskeleton. The overall gear ratio i.e. the gear reduction happens in two stages one occurs where the cables are wound up and the second occurs at the motor using timing belts for each of the four joints is set such that the robot maintains back driveability without the need for force torque sensors. An overall gear ratio of eight has been found to be suitable. The lightweight mechanism is attached to the lateral side of the subject s arm using two adjustable arm cuffs which are the only points of physical attachment to the subject. Inflatable or padded arm cuffs may be used for greater comfort.

Glenohumeral motion is achieved using a spherical joint made from three intersecting revolute joint axes connected in series. A major problem with spherical joints is that it is always possible to reach a singular configuration where one DOF is lost by rotating the second joint axis so that the three axes become coplanar. The order and relative orientation of these three axes was optimized to ensure that the exoskeleton does not reach singularity within the subject s workspace as specified in Ball et al. 2007a that manipulability is maximized and that collision with the subject or itself does not occur over the entire workspace. The optimization process is described below.

It will be appreciated that it is useful to be able to mechanically lock the six DOF mechanical linkage into a planar two DOF exoskeleton one DOF shoulder and one DOF elbow motion only in any plane i.e. not limited to vertical or horizontal . This would allow the mechanical linkage to function in a simpler configuration which may be more appropriate for some assessment or treatment purposes. To achieve this the third joint axis of the spherical joint the last glenohumeral joint axis is chosen to be parallel to the elbow joint axis see . Thus the first four joint axes of the mechanical linkage both joint axes of the sternoclavicular joint and the first two axes of the glenohumaral joint can be positioned to select the desired plane and then physically locked. When locked the first four joint axes of the mechanical linkage are not part of the simplified planar linkage s motion.

With the third glenohumeral joint axis orientation chosen the orientations of the remaining two joint axes were then determined as follows. It was straightforward to determine that the second joint axis should be perpendicular to the third axis and in the horizontal plane in order to avoid singularities in the workspace. This configuration also has the added benefit of allowing basic flexion extension or adduction abduction motions to be controlled using a single joint axis.

To determine the optimal first joint axis orientation an iterative procedure was developed to calculate the box product M at each configuration in the workspace. The box product is defined as z z 3 where zare the unit vectors corresponding to the glenohumeral joint axes. When M 1 the joint axes are orthogonal and manipulability is maximized. When M 0 the joint axes are coplanar and a degree of freedom is lost i.e. singular configuration . The procedure is summarized as follows and step by step results are shown in to 

1 The orientation of the first joint axis was defined relative to the second joint axis in terms of two optimizable parameters and as shown in .

2 With and fixed manipulability M was calculated for a combination of and as was varied corresponds to abduction as shown in .

3 The singular abduction angle and the maximum manipulability M were calculated and plotted for all combinations of and .

4 A range of and combinations that reached a feasible compromise between high Mand large was revealed i.e. 0.8

5 M was calculated for the entire workspace of the spherical joint for a given and all three joints varied across their ranges of motion as shown in .

7 The process was repeated until there were no singularities in the workspace and the manipulability was as high as possible over the workspace.

The final angles that provided the optimal spherical joint axes arrangement for the given design constraints are 45 and 40 . The maximum manipulability is 0.85 and averages 0.75 across the workspace.

The joint axes of the shoulder elbow mechanism are on axis remotely coupled through the shoulder girdle mechanism which is described in Section 4.2 below with an open ended cable drive transmission actuated by electric motors. Cable driven mechanisms have a high power to weight ratio because all the motors can be placed on the fixed base i.e. ground . This significantly reduces the size mass and inertial properties of the robot and helps to reduce the motor torque output requirements. Open ended cable systems distribute loads across several cables which also reduces the actuator requirements. Overall the mechanism becomes more transparent i.e. less perceptible to the subject.

Open ended cable drive systems require additional transformations to control the robot Tsai 1999 . This is due in part to the fact that the number of joints needing control n is less than the number of actuators m . Cable systems can apply force through tension only so it is necessary to have an antagonistic cable routing scheme for motion capability in both rotational directions at each joint. As such a minimum of n 1 cables are necessary for complete control of n joints. Also it is necessary to have a positive tension in all cables at all times to prevent the cables from becoming slack. Furthermore since the cables are routed along the entire length of the mechanism through a series of pulleys their motion affects multiple joints allowing loads at the joints to be distributed among the actuators. Ultimately joint angles and torques are related to the length displacement and the forces in the cables.

The choice of cable routing scheme has a significant effect on the performance of the device. In fact for this four DOF mechanical linkage n 4 actuated by five motors m 5 there are 11 possible unique cable routing schemes all of which can be described in matrix form. This matrix can be analyzed to obtain quantitative measures related to efficiency and actuator torque requirements Lee 1991 . illustrates the optimal routing scheme which has minimal antagonism between cables and hence the most even distribution of forces across the cables and also has the lowest peak forces.

Each joint of the exoskeleton requires a low friction bearing system that provides rotation about its axis while providing rigidity against forces and moments in all other directions. In addition to withstanding non axial gravitational and inertial moments during motion the joints must withstand substantial non axial moments resulting from forces applied by the cables and pulleys. Four point contact bearings are highly resistant to non axial moments and therefore need not be used in pairs. Use of four point contact bearings results in a thin and lightweight exoskeleton.

The shoulder girdle mechanism provides two DOF about the subject s sternoclavicular joint elevation depression and protraction retraction. The entire mechanism is located behind the subject and there is an adjustment to account for subjects of different size. The mechanism supports the complete shoulder elbow linkage including the subject s arm and as a result must be structurally strong.

The first sternoclavicular joint of the exoskeleton is fixed to ground at the base structure behind the subject with its axis pointing forward in the horizontal plane. It is a conventional rotary joint that provides elevation depression motion. The second joint axis is vertically aligned and intersects the first joint axis through the subject s sternoclavicular joint allowing protraction retraction motion. This second joint axis provides off axis remote coupling to the subjects s sternoclavicular joint based on the embodiment in . It is not a typical rotary joint rather it is a curved track linkage on which a carriage travels as described above with respect to the planar exoskeleton . The low friction carriage supports the entire cable drive system and is driven by a hinged linkage. The cables that drive the shoulder elbow mechanism are coupled through this hinged linkage similar to the embodiment in . The resulting mechanism operates like a four bar mechanical linkage without requiring any structural elements near the subject s sternoclavicular joint see . Both joints are driven by electric motors with timing belts and operate with gear ratios of for example 5 and 6.25 respectively.

The benefits of the track linkage are significant. First it facilitates placing equipment behind the subject rather than above the subject s head which is safer and more comfortable for the subject and also easier for the operator to set up. Second the hinged driving linkage doubles as a routing system for the cables from the shoulder elbow mechanism by guiding them through to the base of the robot without any non linear changes in cable length. Any change in cable length as a result of shoulder girdle motion is easily accounted for in the cable length transformations.

The weight of this mechanism is substantial and puts high static torque requirements on the first shoulder girdle joint. To remove part of the burden from the motor an external gravity compensation system may be employed. For example a vertical cable may be connected to the curved track and controlled by a third motor mounted to the frame directly above the end of the track see to apply a vertical force on the track to offset the gravitational forces on the exoskeleton.

To function correctly the joints of the exoskeleton must be aligned with the sternoclavicular and glenohumeral joints of the subject and adjusted to fit arms of different lengths. A harness attached to the moveable chair is secured around the subject s torso and the chair may be used to obtain the three translational adjustments necessary to align the subject s sternoclavicular joint with the exoskeleton s fixed sternoclavicular joint centre. Once aligned the chair is locked to the main structure .

The exoskeleton must next be aligned with the subject s glenohumeral joint centre. As before three spatial adjustments are required. However this can be achieved by a single manual linear adjustment because the redundancy of the exoskeleton structure can be used to make the remaining alignments. This linear adjustment shifts the cable drive system relative to the carriage in the direction approximately aligned with the horizontal projection of the clavicle see and is then clamped to the carriage. This design is based on the embodiment shown in . Thus modifying the position of the exoskeleton s glenohumeral joint centre is achieved through the linear adjustment and the two DOF provided by the shoulder girdle mechanism. The three DOF spherical joint of the shoulder elbow mechanism automatically compensates by rotating until the exoskeleton is properly aligned with the subject s limb.

This adjustment scheme has the benefit of simplifying the structure of the exoskeleton s sternoclavicular joint and also the set up procedure. Otherwise three consecutive translational adjustments would be required making the robotic exoskeleton significantly larger heavier and more complicated. Relying on the shoulder elbow mechanism to compensate for the adjustment tends to push the robot shoulder joint away from its optimal configuration decreasing the range of motion of the exoskeleton in some directions. However the adjustment range is typically small 2 or 3 at most so the singularities and manipulability of the exoskeleton will not be significantly altered. Another issue that arises when adjusting an open ended cable drive system is that it is necessary to maintain tension in the cables at all times. Adjusting the link length must not change the cable length otherwise tension would be lost. Use of a hinged linkage based on the embodiment of ensures that the cable length does not change and that tension is maintained.

The exoskeleton attaches to the subject in two places the upper arm and the forearm . These attachments keep the exoskeleton aligned with the limb at all times. For example. attachment of the limb may be accomplished by strapping the limb into rigid half cylindrical troughs using a inflatable Velcro straps or cuffs similar to a blood pressure cuff. Once strapped in the cuffs may then be inflated to provide a secure fit that is customized to the subject. The cuffs may be attached to the subject before connecting to the exoskeleton which is easier for the operator and more comfortable for the subject. An important difference from many previous aim cuff designs is that the arm cuff does not have a fixed size through which the subject must put their arm. This allows simpler set up and also is compatible with a larger variety of arm sizes.

Five adjustments are required to ensure that the subject s arm is properly aligned with the exoskeleton see . Each cuff is adjustable along the length of the exoskeleton for limbs of different length and perpendicular to the exoskeleton for limbs of different width . For example as shown in and each cuff may have two translational adjustments to correctly align the limb segments relative to the mechanism structure perpendicular to the link small arrows and parallel to the link hollow arrows . A fifth adjustment large arrow moves the location of the elbow joint to change the length of the upper limb link. For example the cuff may be attached by inserting it into a slider which can move freely along the exoskeleton. A quick release clamp e.g. a cam operated clamp may be used to simultaneously clamp the cuff to the slider and the slider to the exoskeleton see . To accommodate subjects with different arm lengths a similar slider and clamp may be used to locate the elbow joint along the upper arm link. Using a mechanical linkage based on the embodiment of to couple the last shoulder joint to the elbow joint ensures that the joints remain coupled and that cable tension is not lost when adjusting the upper arm length.

Although exoskeleton type robotic devices always require more set up time than their end effector type counterparts the exoskeleton described herein has a relatively simple set up procedure and yet provides substantial mobility and adjustability. In fact once the wheeled chair is locked in place only four clamps are required to secure all eight adjustments. This minimizes set up time leaving more time for therapy.

To help make appropriate choices for the eight electric motors required to actuate the 3 D exoskeleton a dynamic model of the exoskeleton and the human limb was created in MATLAB based on the robot toolbox Corke 1996 . The model was also used to specify a number of other design parameters including bearing strength joint gear ratios and cable load capacity.

The exoskeleton was modeled as a standard rigid body manipulator and it was assumed that the cable dynamics were not significant. Dynamic parameters of the exoskeleton including lengths masses and inertial properties were estimates from CAD drawings. The same properties of the human upper limb were calculated from anthropometric data tables based on subject height and weight Winter 1990 and were fully integrated into the model. The model was adapted to account for the external gravity compensation system and included estimates of viscous and static friction. Given a trajectory for each joint the model calculated the joint torques required to achieve that motion. The cable forces required to generate the joint torques were then calculated using the torque resolver technique Lee 1991 . The final output was the torque outputs for all eight motors the force in each cable and all forces and non axial moments at each joint.

To get an estimate of the peak dynamic motor torques for non contact applications the model was used to simulate various reaching movements with a peak end point velocity of 1.0 m s. Anthropometric limb measurements were chosen to meet the maximum design requirements. Movements included single joint movements through the full range of motion of each joint and a range of typical multi joint reaching movements such as reaching towards the face or chest from a relaxed position. The most demanding positions for the exoskeleton in terms of static torque requirements are those in which the arm is raised to the horizontal plane with the elbow fully extended. The gravitational component of the joint torques is the most significant contribution and produces the largest stresses on the motors in static situations so each position was held for one second to facilitate measurements of peak static torque.

Motors and gear ratios were selected based on the results of these simulations. The motors have built in high resolution encoders capable of measuring joint angle in increments of 0.003 . Each motor also incorporates an electric brake to guarantee that the mechanism will not collapse during a power failure. The brakes also ensure that the cables remain in tension when the power is turned off. The simulations also enabled selection of a braided stainless steel cable of appropriate size and also joint bearings with sufficient load capabilities. The overall torque capabilities of each joint of the exoskeleton are shown in Table I and are a result of the limits of both the motors and the cable strength.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain variants of the embodiments described herein. Such variants are within the scope of the invention and are covered by the appended claims.

