---

title: Method and apparatus for join selection of a conference call
abstract: A method for join selection of a conference call from a communication device, wherein the communication device includes a memory for storing an event record. The method includes: identifying from the event record one or more addresses for contacting a conference call server for establishing a scheduled conference call session; automatically selecting, based on specified criteria, one of the addresses as a default address associated with a default join option for establishing the scheduled conference call session; generating an identifier for associating the selected default address with the default join option; and storing the identifier in the memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08699686&OS=08699686&RS=08699686
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08699686
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120316
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 454 318 titled Method for Join Selection of a Conference Call filed Mar. 18 2011 and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Example embodiments relate to conference call systems and methods for example for join selection of a conference call from a communication device.

During a conference call voice or media connections are typically made between two or more communication devices such as telephones or mobile phones.

When scheduling a conventional conference call a user typically is required to configure the conference call manually. For example all conference call information would be entered into specific fields or tags including the time attendees host and conference access number. Specific menus and interfaces would be used to implement these functions. When a quick meeting needs to be convened there is time overhead required to set up the meeting. In addition the user can be distracted from the substantive content of the meeting in order to facilitate the administrative aspect in coordinating the meeting.

When receiving a conference call invitation in a device typically the specific fields or tags are used to determine the particular conference call details. This can raise compatibility issues. For example in some conventional systems both the host and the participant can be forced to use the same or compatible scheduling software applications in order to exchange suitable scheduling information. However in many instances the participants can be using a variety of different applications for scheduling such as Google Calendar Apple iCal GoDaddy Online Group Calendar IBM Lotus Notes Yahoo Calendar and Microsoft Outlook . These programs typically use a calendar standard format for merely communicating and setting up calendar appointments and are not specific to setting up conference calls.

There are yet further some variety of different vendors who have dedicated templates for scheduling conference calls for example InterCall WebEx ACT Live Meeting and e Dial. However any additional specialized features in these templates typically require both the host and the participant to have a dedicated or compatible software application to recognize the particular template in order to use any specialized tags or fields. This can result in a relatively inflexible result when attempting to schedule a conference call between multiple parties.

Other difficulties with existing teleconferencing systems will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description below.

Some example embodiments generally relate to an automatic discovery feature for a join now feature. Generally in some example embodiments the join now feature includes a default join option such as a Join Now button for establishing a scheduled conference call session using a default address. Once the time of that meeting arrives or a predetermined time beforehand the Join Now button can be displayed on a device on a popup reminder interface. In example embodiments the automatic discovery feature is used to determine whether a particular address is to be associated with the join now feature. When this is performed the selection of the Join Now button would result in the device automatically operatively connecting to a conference call server using the identified address. The address can be a phone number or an address link such as an Internet address and a conference access code.

Some example embodiments can be implemented by a host communication device for a conference call. The default join now can be automatically associated with an address through specified criteria recognized from the device.

Some example embodiments can be implemented by a non host participant communication device for a conference call. This can be applied to a calendar meeting that is received or to existing stored calendar meetings. The default join now can be automatically associated with an address through specified criteria for example based on location information of the device.

In one example embodiment there is provided a method for join selection of a conference call from a communication device wherein the communication device includes a memory for storing an event record. The method includes identifying from the event record one or more addresses for contacting a conference call server for establishing a scheduled conference call session automatically selecting based on specified criteria one of the addresses as a default address associated with a default join option for establishing the scheduled conference call session generating an identifier for associating the selected default address with the default join option and storing the identifier in the memory.

In another example embodiment there is provided a non transitory computer readable medium having recorded thereon statements and instructions for join selection of a conference call the statements and instructions comprising code means for performing the method.

In yet another example embodiment there is provided a communication device including a communications subsystem a memory for storing an event record and a controller configured for performing the method.

Example embodiments relate to the control and management of conference call communications. Although reference is made to calls and talk in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that some of the described systems and methods can be applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. Reference to calls can for example include shared data e.g. presentation content as well as media sessions which can for example include video and or audio. The various communications can include both synchronous and asynchronous communications to implement such calls .

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system can be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network can include more than one network and can be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network can be operatively connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network can also be operatively connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network can also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which can also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some cases a cellular network. The operative connection with the PLMN can be made via a relay as understood in the art.

The enterprise network can also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs can exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN can be operatively connected to WAN .

The system can include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices can include devices equipped with communications modules for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and data communications. WLANs can be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood by a person with ordinary skill in the art that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices can be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device can roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves. In some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from an operative connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The mobile devices can consist of various types of communication devices. Such mobile devices can include Class A devices which are able to function continuously as dual mode devices capable of both media and data communications. Mobile devices can also include non Class A devices which can function as dual mode devices for initialization or prior to an operative connection with the enterprise communications platform but can lose data functionality once a media session e.g. voice call is established. The enterprise network can also include additional client devices which are voice only or media only devices which can be digital or analog for communication with the PSTN or PLMN and which need not have data capabilities herein referred to as voice only or media only devices . In other embodiments the mobile devices can include any suitable client device configured with the communications functionality described herein and can for example include computer devices relays proxies gateways and any appropriate User Agents as defined in SIP .

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network can operatively connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The operative connection can be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network can also operatively connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network can include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages can be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application can be operating on a user s computer operatively connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user can be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user can also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Generally the enterprise server is configured to collectively serve the needs of the enterprise network for example to provide and or synchronize messaging contacts and calendaring information between servers desktop workstations and mobile devices . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a user s e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were operatively connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX can be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having an operative connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is operatively connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX can use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX can be operatively connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also operatively connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual can have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network can further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP can in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX can be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for operatively connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP can be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it can be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP can be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to operatively connect session legs and can provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or to operatively connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls the enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response IVR call forwarding voice mail etc. It can also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In many embodiments Session Initiation Protocol SIP can be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols can also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony Integration CTI protocol Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform can allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features can include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail. conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . illustrates an embodiment intended for use in a circuit switched TDM context. The PBX is coupled to the SMP via PRI operative connection or other suitable digital trunk. In some embodiments the PRI operative connection can include a first PRI operative connection a second PRI operative connection and a channel service unit CSU wherein the CSU is a mechanism for operatively connecting computing devices to digital mediums in a manner that allows for the retiming and regeneration of incoming signals. It will be appreciated that there can be additional or alternative operative connections between the PBX and the SMP .

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture can be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface can be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface can also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing LIMP processor.

The SMP can include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts can implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server can employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server can communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server can be configured to perform Host Media Processing HMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art. For example in example embodiments the service management platform can be separate from the PBX or the service management platform can include a cloud based system.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

Although SIP can be utilized it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered i.e. when dialing to a specific extension . SIP is defined in J. Rosenberg et al. RFC 3261 Session Initiation Protocol June 2002 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service can use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application can use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer can include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data can be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Example conference call systems and methods in accordance with example embodiments will now be described referring now to which shows the system when used or configured as a conference call system. As shown the enterprise communications platform includes the conference server for providing conference call services for a number of client devices such as mobile devices illustrated as one designated host device and one or more participant devices . The mobile devices can collectively form a conference call group. The host device is generally the mobile device or associated user who schedules and hosts a conference call session and can for example be permitted to perform such hosting functions as roll call mute all broadcast only conference lock etc. In some example embodiments the conference call session cannot commence without the presence of the host device

The enterprise communications platform and the associated conference server can be used for generally executing conference call functions. As described above in example embodiments the enterprise communications platform can include or be coupled to the media server wherein the enterprise communications platform controls the media handling and media sessions of the media server .

Referring still to in order to implement some of the conference call functions described herein the enterprise communications platform can communicate with the mobile devices by way of media sessions and or control sessions. Specifically as shown in the mobile devices communicates via media sessions shown as solid lines and control sessions shown as dashed lines to distinguish from the media sessions . For example the designated host device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . Participant device communicates via media session and control session . In some embodiments as shown the participant device lid can merely communicate via media session over the PLMN or PSTN only without an associated control session .

In some example embodiments the media sessions can be facilitated by the enterprise communications platform by way of Real time Transport Protocol RTP media sessions and can include voice calls video calls circuit switched calls or VoIP calls. In order to generate or establish a conference call session the enterprise communications platform operatively connects or links at least some of the call legs of each media session . The particular methods and processes for operatively connecting of media sessions into a conference call session would be understood by those skilled in the art which can for example be implemented by media shuffling or SDP Session Description Protocol media shuffling etc.

In some example embodiments a data connection e.g. the same data connection as used by the control sessions can be further used to provide additional data sharing between mobile devices . For example during a conference call the host mobile device can provide or transfer a data file to the remaining mobile devices . Data sharing can also include Web Services or sharing of presentation content.

In some example embodiments during a conference call session the enterprise communications platform can receive Global Positioning System GPS information from at least some of the participant devices and can send the received GPS information to the devices to provide location based positioning services between the devices .

Reference is now made to which illustrates in detail a mobile device in which example embodiments can be applied. The mobile device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device in various embodiments the mobile device can be a handheld device a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication.

The mobile device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the mobile device . The internal components of the mobile device can for example be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The description of the mobile device herein mentions a number of specific components and subsystems. Although these components and subsystems can be realized as discrete elements the functions of the components and subsystems can also be realized by integrating combining or packaging one or more elements in any suitable fashion. The mobile device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen or any other appropriate display input devices such as a keyboard and control buttons persistent memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as a conventional serial data port or a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem which can employ any appropriate a wireless e.g. RF optical or other short range communications technology and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems can provide resident or on device functions.

Display can be realized as a touch screen display in some embodiments. The touch screen display can be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface operatively connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the visible element of display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The wireless communication subsystem includes one or more communication systems for communicating with wireless WAN base stations and wireless LAN access points within the wireless network. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile device is intended to operate. The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory or ROM . The processor can execute code means or instructions. ROM can contain data program instructions or both. Persistent memory can contain data program instructions or both in some embodiments is rewritable under control of processor and can be realized using any appropriate persistent memory technology including EEPROM EAROM FLASH and the like. As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software and software applications .

Software modules or parts thereof can be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The software applications can further include a range of applications including for example an e mail messaging application address book calendar application notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications can include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display according to the application.

The modules can further include a Global Positioning System GPS module or application which is configured for detection of a geographical position of the device for example by correlating existing satellites. The GPS module can also receive from the enterprise communications platform the geographical positions of the other devices .

In some embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems can comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The auxiliary I O subsystems can further comprise one or more input devices including a pointing or navigational tool such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or one or more output devices including a mechanical transducer such as a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile device e.g. receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile device also includes one or more removable memory modules typically comprising FLASH memory and one or more memory module interfaces . Among possible functions of the removable memory module is to store information used to identify or authenticate a user or the user s account to wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . For example in conjunction with certain types of wireless networks including GSM and successor networks the removable memory module is referred to as a Subscriber Identity Module or SIM. The memory module is inserted in or operatively connected to the memory module interface of the mobile device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network.

The mobile device stores data in a persistent memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . The data can also include for example scheduling and connection information for operatively connecting to a scheduled conference call.

The mobile device also includes a battery which furnishes energy for operating the mobile device . The battery can be coupled to the electrical circuitry of mobile device through a battery interface which can manage such functions as charging the battery from an external power source not shown and the distribution of energy to various loads within or operatively connected to the mobile device . Short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem can include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a BLUETOOTH communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system software or software applications can also be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem such as . The downloaded programs or code modules can be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the persistent memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The mobile device can provide three principal modes of communication a data communication mode an optional voice communication mode and an optional video communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an e mail message Web page download or an image file will be processed by the wireless communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page can be further processed by a browser application or an e mail message can be processed by an e mail message messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile device can also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items can be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network e.g. WAN and or PLMN . In the voice communication mode the mobile device can provide telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. In the video communication mode the mobile device can provide transcribing functions during a video conferencing session including at least one camera.

Reference is now briefly made to which shows a reminder interface that is displayed at a time of a conference call session or a specified time beforehand. In some example embodiments the conference call application can include a join now feature. Generally in some example embodiments the join now feature includes a default join option shown as a Join Now button for establishing the scheduled conference call session using a default address. Once the time of that meeting arrives or a predetermined time beforehand the Join Now button can be displayed on the device on a popup reminder interface . In example embodiments the automatic discovery feature is used to determine whether a particular address is to be associated with the join now feature. When this is performed the selection of the Join Now button would result in the device automatically operatively connecting to the enterprise communications platform using the identified address. The address can be a phone number and conference access code or an address link such as an Internet address.

In some existing systems a conventional join now feature requires specific conference tags in order to identify that a particular phone number is to be allocated for the join now feature. A participant who receives mocha meeting invitation would typically require the same or a compatible software application in order to read the conference tags to read and store the relevant conference details from those tags. A major limitation with these existing systems is that the join now feature appears only when there are tags inserted by the user into a meeting invite. For example if a meeting invite was created via Microsoft Outlook the Join Now button will typically be absent or inactive unless a special application is used to manually insert the appropriate conference tags.

Referring again to the applications can include a conference call application which can be an add on plug in or app for a calendar application. Generally in some example embodiments the conference call application can be used for identifying whether a calendar event record such as a meeting request is in relation to a scheduled conference call. Some example embodiments generally relate to an automatic discovery feature with respect to the calendar event record. Example embodiments can parse the calendar event record to identify any conference call scheduling information. When parsing some of the calendar event record can be temporarily stored in a cache in the memory.

Some example embodiments can be implemented by a host communication device for a conference call. A conference call record can be automatically populated with keywords when it intelligently recognizes a user s desire to convene a conference call session from a new or existing calendar meeting entry. Additionally the conference call can be set up from a mobile communication device so as not to require a user to log onto their desktop to coordinate specific details.

Some example embodiments can be implemented by a non host participant communication device for a conference call. This can be applied to a calendar meeting that is received or to existing stored calendar meetings. The calendar meeting can be identified as being in relation to a conference call and address information such as dialing or link information can be identified and used to join the conference call at or before the time of the call.

In some example embodiments the conference call application can be configured for parsing at least some of the calendar event record determining based on the parsing whether the calendar event record includes conference call scheduling information in relation to a scheduled conference call session generating based on the parsing one or more identifiers for at least some of the conference call scheduling information and storing in the memory the one or more identifiers.

The one or more identifiers can include tags or fields. The identifiers can be stored as a separate record along with a copy of corresponding conference call scheduling information. In another example embodiment the tags are used to tag corresponding conference call scheduling information within the calendar event record itself.

Some example embodiments can support multiple addresses such as multiple phone numbers and or address links. For example each of the multiple addresses can terminate onto the enterprise communications platform . The automatic discovery feature can be used to determine which address is to be allocated for the join now option.

The automatic discovery feature for parsing the calendar event record will now be described in greater detail. In some example embodiments the automatic discovery feature does not merely rely on tags or fields for identifying the conference call scheduling information. In some example embodiments a trigger event such as the initial installation of the conference call application will cause every meeting event contained in the calendar to be parsed. Other triggers can also be used such as each launching of the conference call application or waiting a periodic time period. During this phase in other example embodiments only calendar event records from the current time to the future are parsed wherein any past events are ignored. After the initial installation going forward the application can parse any calendar event record whenever a new event is added to the calendar application such as when a new event is generated by the user using the calendar application or a calendar event record is received or sent as an invitation message.

In an example embodiment the automatic discovery uses feature based learning. This uses and acquires a large sample of both meetings that contain conference details and meetings that do not and from this sample extracts the features that strongly indicate whether a meeting is a teleconference or not. This approach uses a sample set that accurately represents real world data to have a high degree of confidence in its accuracy. Example implementations can be analogous to spam detection such as Bayesian spam detection as would be understood in the art. Examples of such detection can include for example Ion Androutsopoulos et al. September 200 Learning to Filter Spam E Mail A Comparison of a Naive Bayesian and a Memory Based Approach Dept of Informatics University of Athens and M. Sahami et al. 1998 A Bayesian approach to filtering junk e mail AAAI 98 Workshop on Learning for Text Categorization the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This approach has a relatively proven track record of extremely high accuracy for problems like spam filtering but is also suitable for automatic discovery of particulars of a conference call with minimal parsing.

In another example embodiment the automatically discovery feature uses a whitelist of keywords. This can include sampling a whitelist of keywords to automatically discover teleconference meetings. This can include collecting over a hundred samples of teleconference meetings from over ten example participants and determining common formats meeting organizers use when putting in conference details. This can also include sampling default templates that are automatically inserted into meeting invitations when using different teleconference vendors. Example teleconference vendors include without intending to be limiting InterCall WebEx ACT Live Meeting and e Dial. Conference related keywords can also be used based on commonly used terms for teleconference meetings.

This approach is advantageous in that miscategorized meetings can often be fixed by adding new keywords or formats to the whitelist. This approach can also provide that specific well known formats or templates are supported.

In another example embodiment the automatically discovery feature uses reinforcement learning. In some example embodiments this approach is not necessarily an alternative to the other approaches but rather an enhancement to be used in conjunction with either approach. This approach includes using a simplified version of reinforcement learning to improve accuracy on a per user basis. Reinforcement learning unlike feature based learning is done after the conference call application is installed on a device. In this approach the application once installed improves its accuracy over time by learning from past misclassifications of conference meetings. In this approach the application explicitly asks or prompts the user whether or not the application correctly labeled a meeting as a teleconference meeting and accurately identified the conference details. The accuracy of automatic discovery improves over time in this approach.

Reference is now made to which shows an example user interface displayed on the display for scheduling a conference call in accordance with an example embodiment. In the example embodiment shown the user interface is for example implemented by a conference call application as a stand alone or in combination with other applications resident on the host device which can be an add on plug in or app for a calendar application. The user interface can form part of a conference call session scheduling process.

Still referring to the user interface relates to scheduling of a conference call session having a subject that is to occur at a scheduled time and date. For example the time and date of the schedule conference call session can be stored within the conference call application or a calendar application. For example the scheduled conference call has a subject field of PM PO UX Synch. and has a scheduled date field of May 8 2009 at 3 30 PM 4 00 PM . The user interface can be manually triggered by launching and subsequently operating the conference call application.

As shown in the user interface also includes an options menu to perform functions such as editing the existing scheduled conference call scheduling new conference calls and inviting new participants. During the conference call scheduling process the conference call scheduling information is sent from the host device to the enterprise communications platform which stores the information in a memory. In some example embodiments the host mobile device sends an invitation message directly or indirectly to the recipient invitee client devices . In some example embodiments the host mobile device receives a response to the invitation message directly or indirectly from the invitee client devices . The host mobile device can update the enterprise communications platform in such example embodiments.

At the time of the scheduled conference call or a specified time beforehand the enterprise communications platform can contact each of the devices to join the media sessions together. In example embodiments the devices can also dial or link into the enterprise communications platform using dialing or address link information received during scheduling.

As shown in the user interface includes a title bar a status icon an options menu and participant icons each or individually that display the status of each participant for the conference call. The participant icons can for example be a photo or avatar of the individual user. A cursor is also shown for indicating which item s on the user interface are to be selected e.g. controllable by a user input device such as a touchscreen touch scrollball or mouse . The status icon displays the present status of the conference call for example Scheduled CC Conference Call as shown.

Referring now to the participant icons in the example shown the user interface is displayed on the host device indicated as You Host as shown in icon . The participant icon associated with John is indicated as Declined . The participant icon associated with Sally is indicated as Tentative . The participant icon associated with Kevin is indicated as Accepted. Contact information such as e mail address or phone number for the participants can be pre stored in association with the participant names or can be manually entered as appropriate . The status of each participant icon can also be shown for example as Accepted Tentative or Declined.

As shown in in some example embodiments the host device can also select a menu to designate the scheduled conference call as a closed conference call. In a closed call only the specified or eligible participant devices designated by the host device can join the call. Additionally for example only a specified number of participants can join the call. In some example embodiments in a closed call further authentication of those participant devices can be performed when attempting to access the scheduled conference call. As shown the host device also has the option to use the menu to set the scheduled conference call as an open conference call wherein any participant device designated as eligible or not can join.

In some example embodiments some aspects of the user interface can relate to a conventional calendar event scheduling interface. For example a user can populate a Notes graphical user interface as normally performed when scheduling a conference call using a conventional calendar event scheduling interface. In some example embodiments the Notes graphical user interface can be filled with various information or comments with respect to the meeting and whether the meeting is in relation to a conference call. In some example embodiments Notes graphical user interface can be populated with one or more phone numbers and moderator or participant access codes for operatively connecting to the enterprise communications platform . In the example shown the phone numbers shown are USA Toll Free Internal extension and Other. Additional addresses can also be populated within the Notes graphical user interface such as an Internet Intranet or SIP address link.

Accordingly some example embodiments can support multiple addresses such as multiple phone numbers and or address links. Through the interface the host user can save the calendar invitation as a calendar event record or send the present calendar invitation to the invitees. This can trigger the automatic discovery feature in accordance with some example embodiments as described above. Using the automatic discovery feature one or a plurality of addresses can be identified from the calendar event record for example from the Notes graphical user interface . In some example embodiments using the interface users can choose from a list which phone number they would like to use for the join now button shown in . The interface can be accessible from the calendar meeting event record to allow the user to modify which number is to be used for the join now button shown in to dial into the conference call.

Reference is now made to which shows an interface in accordance with an example embodiment. As illustrated in the interface the automatic discovery feature can be used to extract the various conference call scheduling information from the Notes graphical user interface shown in . As shown the US Toll Free Internal Other Moderator Access Code and Participant Access Code are automatic discovered and copied into respective fields. The host device can also store a tag represented by checkmark which represent the particular phone number US Toll Free in this example which is the default phone number assigned to the join now option e.g. join now button shown in . Through the interface the user can edit or select which address or phone number is to be used for the join now option.

Thus reference is made to which illustrate how the interface can be used to select a different phone number for example Internal as the default phone number assigned to the join now option. As shown in a drop down menu for Internal is selected and the Use for Join Now option can be selected. As shown in the tag represented by checkmark is now assigned to the Internal phone number.

In further example embodiments a tag is saved or flagged within the Notes graphical user interface itself shown in for example using an XML tag or other indicator not shown .

Accordingly the host device can readily use natural language to create and configure a conference call meeting for sending to other devices which can recognize the same fields or tags.

Reference is now made to which shows another interface in accordance with another example embodiment. As illustrated in the interface the automatic discovery feature can be used to extract the various conference call scheduling information from the Notes graphical user interface shown in . The default phone number assigned to the join now option e.g. join now button can be selected using a drop down menu . Through the interface the user can edit or select which address or phone number is to be used for the join now button . As shown in a tag represented by checkmark is assigned to the phone number to be used for the join now button .

Reference is now made to which shows a user interface for displaying a received invitation message on a non host participant device . In some example embodiments the received invitation message can be received from any formatted calendar source such as without intending to be limiting Google Calendar Apple iCal GoDaddy Online Group Calendar IBM Lotus Notes Yahoo Calendar Microsoft Outlook or any calendar standard format such as ICalendar .ics as would be understood in the art. The device first receives the invitation message from another communication device such as host device with respect to a scheduled conference call and not necessarily having the same conference call application installed . As shown the message as displayed can include a number of fields which relate to conference call scheduling information. The fields include Subject Start time End time Recurrence Host Organizer and Notes . The Notes can include a variety of notes on the conference call scheduling information such as web information or audio dialing information for accessing the conference call. In some example embodiments the example user interface can be displayed using a calendar application or a conference calling add on plug in or app as a stand alone or in combination with other applications. The user interface can also form part of the conference call session scheduling process.

In some example embodiments the invitation message can be received as an e mail message designating the participant s e mail address but can also be in other forms such as short message service SMS SIP message instant messaging or calendar invite. The message can be received directly or indirectly from a host device

As shown on the interface a number of response options can be selected in order to respond to the invitation message . As shown the response options include Accept Decline Tentative or Forward . Upon selection of one or more of the response options a communication containing the response is sent to the host device . In further example embodiments selection of the Accept option can result in the details of the invitation message being stored in a calendar application of the device . The Forward option can be used to forward the invitation message to a new participant client device.

Upon receiving the invitation message this can trigger the automatic discovery feature in accordance with some example embodiments as described above. Using the automatic discovery feature conference call scheduling information such as one or a plurality of addresses can be identified from the calendar event record. Other triggers can be used such as selecting the Accept option or saving the invitation message . The automatic discovery feature identifies and or extracts the relevant conference call scheduling information such as the various phone numbers contained in the Notes . In addition one of the numbers can be automatically selected as the default number to be used for the join now option.

Referring again to in some example embodiments the interface can be used by a non host participant device the same interface used by the host device is illustrated here for convenience . Through the interface invited users can select from a list which phone number they would like to use for the join now button shown in for example if the automatically selected default number or address is not suitable. The interface can be accessible from the calendar meeting event record to allow the user to modify which number is to be used for the join now button shown in to dial into the conference call. Note that this is typically configured prior to the occurrence of the conference call so that the user is not rushed at the scheduled time. At the time of the scheduled conference call or a specified time beforehand the devices can display the reminder interface including the join now button shown in to dial or link into the enterprise communications platform .

Referring briefly to the alternate interface can also be used for editing and configuring the conference call scheduling information for the non host participant device. For example the address associated with the join now button can be configured using the drop down menu .

Referring again to the interface of if web information is received an address link not shown can be selected as the default join option for joining the conference call session. If the conference call is a closed call the enterprise communications platform can then authenticate the device for example by authenticating an identifier of the device in one embodiment using a particular persistent device identifier . Upon authentication a conference call session can be established between the device and the enterprise communications platform which can include a media session shown in .

As can be appreciated in some example embodiments the address link can identify the enterprise communications platform as well as the scheduled conference call session and or the participant identifier and can include a Uniform Resource Locator URL a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or other suitable address.

Referring again to the particular automatic discovery and selection of the default address or phone number for the join now option from a plurality of addresses will now be described. For example a user might use their device in different ways. They might make personal calls through their personal cell line. They might join office calls or contact clients or colleagues through their work number. When making a conference call it is necessary to select the appropriate number and configure the appropriate connection. A user might be authorized to make a call if they were at their desk but their personal cell line does not have permission to join a secure call. However the user is in fact the same individual but the device and the bridge might not know this.

Referring still to the interface can be displayed on either the host device or the non host participant device as appropriate. In some example embodiments localization or location information is used to determine the default phone number for the particular client device. For example a local phone number can be used if the device is associated with that particular location. For example the particular carrier subscriber of the device can be used to determine the geographic location. In some example embodiments a phone number of an associated SIM card or CDMA card can be used to determine the best suited location and therefore the most suitable address of the device. For example the Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN of the device can be used.

In some example embodiments GPS information from the GPS application can be used to determine the present location of the device and whether a local number is available or suitable for the join now option.

In some example embodiments other future calendar event records can be used to determine where the device will be located for a future meeting. For example if a user based in London is travelling to New York City the device can determine the users current or anticipated scheduled location. Based on the user current or anticipated location the more preferred dial in information can be used to operatively connect to the conference for example whatever local dialing number is available. If no local dialing number is available then the toll free number can be selected as the default number.

In some example embodiments the security designation or permissions of the particular device is considered for selection of the default address for the join now option from the plurality of addresses. For example from a work desktop phone that phone can be permitted to dial an internal extension Internal shown in however a personal mobile device should not have some such permission. In another example mobile phones which are associated with a particular enterprise can be permitted to access the conference via an address link not shown and can thus automatically select the address link as the default join option.

If only one address or phone number is received in the original invitation message then that address or phone number is automatically assigned as the default join option.

Accordingly various specified criteria can be used to determine the default phone number. These various criteria can be prioritized or weighted as appropriate. In some example embodiments the addresses are identified from the address fields of the scheduling information without parsing. In some example embodiments the automatic discovery feature can be used to determine the most suitable address.

Reference is now made to which shows an example flow diagram of a method for identifying a conference call in accordance with an example embodiment. The method can be performed by a host device or by a non host participant device depending on the particular application. At step the conference call application is installed which acts as a trigger event for the method . Next every calendar event record stored in the calendar is to be parsed or in some embodiments only those records from the present date onwards . Thus at step the first calendar event record is identified. At step that calendar event record is parsed for conference call scheduling information. For example the automatic discovery feature can be used. Also the particular default address to be associated with the default join option can be identified. At step the identifiers for the identified conference call scheduling information are generated and saved to memory. At step this is repeated until all of the existing calendar event records are all parsed.

In some example embodiments other triggers can also be used for starting the method at step such as each launching of the conference call application or waiting a periodic time period. In other example embodiments only calendar event records from the current time to the future are parsed wherein any past events are ignored.

At step after the initial installation going forward the application can parse any calendar event record whenever a new event is added to the calendar application such as when a new event is generated by the user using the calendar application or a calendar event record is received or sent as an invitation message. At step the device detects a new event record. The new event can be a result of a new event being created by the user an invitation message being sent by the device or an invitation message being received by the device. At step that calendar event record is parsed for conference call scheduling information. For example the automatic discovery feature can be used. Also the particular default address to be associated with the default join option can be identified. At step the identifiers for the identified conference call scheduling information are generated and saved to memory. This is repeated as necessary as new event records are created sent or received by the device.

Reference is now made to which shows an example flow diagram of a method for join selection of a conference call in accordance with an example embodiment. The method can be performed by a host device or by a non host participant device depending on the particular application. The method can be used to identify which address is to be used as the default address for the default join option. Upon installation the method can be performed on each and every event record stored in the device and or for each new event thereafter. The new event can be a result of a new event being created by the user an invitation message being sent by the device or an invitation message being received by the device.

At step the particular event record is selected. At step one or more addresses are identified from the event record for contacting a conference call server for establishing a scheduled conference call session. This can be performed by extracting from the address fields or by using natural language parsing. At step the location information of the device is determined for example using the device number GPS or calendar information. At step the security information is determined for example whether the device can access the conference call using an address link. At step based on such specified criteria the communication device automatically selects one of the addresses as a default address associated with a default join option for establishing the scheduled conference call session. At step an identifier is generated for associating the selected default address with the default join option. The identifier is then stored in memory. This is repeated as necessary as new event records are created sent or received by the device.

In some example embodiments any message or natural language text e.g. text document e mail thread web chat could be used as a basis for parsing for a potential conference call scheduling information and need not be limited to calendar events.

It can be appreciated that the specific words as shown in the various user interfaces are intended to be illustrative only. For example any suitable words or phrases can be used and would not be limited to the English language. For example any number of multi lingual variations in different languages can be displayed or output from the device.

Variations of the above example systems and methods can be used. While some of the above examples have been described as occurring in a particular order it will be appreciated to persons skilled in the art that some of the messages or steps or processes can be performed in a different order provided that the result of the changed order of any given step will not prevent or impair the occurrence of subsequent steps. Furthermore some of the messages or steps described above can be removed or combined in other embodiments and some of the messages or steps described above can be separated into a number of sub messages or sub steps in other embodiments. Even further some or all of the steps of the conversations can be repeated as necessary. Elements described as methods or steps similarly apply to systems or subcomponents and vice versa. Reference to such words as sending or receiving could be interchanged depending on the perspective of the particular device.

Variations can be made to some example embodiment which can include combinations and sub combinations of any of the above. The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure such variations being within the intended scope of the present disclosure. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments can be selected to create alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which might not have been explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments can be selected and combined to create alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which might not have been explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present disclosure as a whole. The subject matter described herein intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

