---

title: Network vetting of wireless mobile device initiated disconnect
abstract: Technology is discussed for allowing a wireless mobile device, such as a User Equipment (UE), to coordinate with a Radio Access Network, such as an Evolved-Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN), to tear down a power intensive messaging connection, such as a Radio Resource Control (RRC) connection, to met needs of both the UE and the E-UTRAN. The UE can initiate the tear down process based on information at the UE about the potential need of the UE for the RRC connection and/or the state of the UE's battery charge. The E-UTRAN can then determine whether to grant the request based on the potential overhead involved. The determination can be important to the E-UTRAN because of the large overhead associated with frequent disconnection and re-establishment of the RRC connection. Upon receipt of an affirmative response, the UE can tear down the RRC connection to save battery power.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210550&OS=09210550&RS=09210550
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09210550
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120823
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 542 086 filed Sep. 30 2011.

Improvements in wireless networks often also create increasing demands on battery power. The desirability of increasing the duration of a battery charge while meeting these new demands places a premium on power savings. Power can be used to maintain many different resources that allow a wireless mobile device to function in a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN .

However the ways in which power is used to allow a wireless mobile device to function in a WWAN involve inefficiencies. These inefficiencies unnecessarily drain power. By determining what these inefficiencies are and removing them additional power savings can be achieved.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

Different terminology for wireless mobile devices is used in different wireless specifications. As used herein a wireless mobile device can be a User Equipment UE or a Mobile Station MS among other possibilities. Throughout this application the terms wireless mobile device UE and MS can be used interchangeably.

As used herein the term Radio Access Network RAN refers to a technology that implements an air interface within a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN . Different terminologies for RANs are used in different wireless standards. Terminology used for different variations of a RAN can include but is not limited to an Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN as defined in specifications for Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE an Access Service Network ASN as defined in specifications for the Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16 commonly referred to as WiMax a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Radio Access Network GRAN as defined is corresponding specifications a GSM Edge Radio Access Network GERAN as defined is corresponding specifications a Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN as defined is corresponding specifications and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS as defined in corresponding specifications. Throughout this application the terms RAN E UTRAN ASN and terms for other types of RANs used in WWANs can be used interchangeably.

As used herein the term cellular radio tower is defined as a wireless communication device in a WWAN configured to communicate with a plurality of wireless mobile devices located within a geographic region referred to as a cell. Different terminologies for cellular radio towers are used in different specifications. Terminology used for different variations of a cellular radio tower can include but is not limited to a Base Station BS an enhanced evolved Node B eNodeB a WWAN transmission point and a WWAN node. The terms are used interchangeably unless otherwise noted. The actual definition of a BS or eNodeB is provided in their IEEE 802.16 and 3GPP LTE specifications respectively.

As used herein the term messaging connection refers to a communication link that handles control plane signaling in a WWAN. One non limiting example for purposes of illustration in the context of 3GPP LTE is a Radio Resource Control RRC connection. Throughout this application the terms messaging connection and RRC connection can be used interchangeably.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

With the power demands placed on wireless mobile devices in a contemporary Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and the desirability of extending the life of a battery charge on a wireless mobile device a need exists to extend power saving capabilities. In Wireless Wide Area Networks WWAN a communication link or messaging connection can be used to provide a wireless mobile device such as a User Equipment UE with control information used to transmit and receive communications within the Radio Access Network RAN of the WWAN. However in wireless communication systems large power budgets are required to maintain connections to the Radio Access Network RAN of the WWAN.

Resources such as a transceiver and processor in the UE can be used substantially continuously while the messaging connection is established. The use of these resources can consume large amounts of power to maintain the messaging connection such as a Radio Resource Control RRC connection in the context of Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE . When a UE will not be transmitting and or receiving data however it can tear down the RRC connection and only listen for and process data relatively infrequently on a paging channel.

The paging channel can be used to indicate to the UE when it actually needs an RRC connection to transmit and receive data on the uplink and downlink control channels shared data channels and other types of transmission and broadcast channels. With respect to 3GPP LTE for example a UE can expend 500 to 1500 milliwatts to maintain an RRC connection. Conversely the same UE only needs to expend 5 to ten milliwatts in idle mode to listen for paging messages potentially one hundredth two orders of magnitude or less of the power used to maintain the messaging connection used to transmit and receive data.

One way to save battery power at a UE is to tear down the RRC connection when data is not received. By tearing down a connection a wireless mobile device can save the power associated with maintaining that connection. Furthermore a wireless mobile device can evaluate its traffic needs and the needs of any applications running on the wireless mobile device. A wireless mobile device can use the results of such evaluations to determine whether a connection needs to be maintained.

When analyzed on a sub frame level at each millisecond data may not be received relatively frequently. Unfortunately tearing down a network connection adds additional overhead that can place strains on the network. A lot of air time and radio resources are consumed by the overhead involved in tearing down and RRC connections. These strains can be especially problematic where the network has to re established the connection later multiple wireless mobile devices are involved and or connections are torn down and re established very frequently. At times such strains have been known to unduly strain WWANs.

Approaches to processes for tearing down messaging connections have allowed wireless mobile devices to unduly strain WWANs with overhead involved tearing down and re establishing messaging connections for over eager wireless mobile devices looking to save power. On the other side alternative approaches have given relatively infrequent opportunities for wireless mobile devices to tear down messaging connections leading to large inefficiencies with respect to power savings. These inefficiencies are in part because a RAN is not directly privy to information about a given wireless mobile device s needs for a messaging connection.

Both types of approaches leave out the needs of and or information available at either the wireless mobile device or the RAN. In accordance with one embodiment an approach for avoiding problems of using too much overhead at the RAN while optimizing power savings at a wireless mobile device can capitalize on information monitored at both of these entities. A negotiation process can take place between a given wireless mobile device and an RAN to allow a UE to tear down a messaging connection as often as a RAN can allow without using undesirable amounts of overhead at the RAN.

The process can be initiated by the wireless mobile device based on information residing at the wireless mobile device about its potential need for a messaging connection and or its battery power. A legacy carrier message between the wireless mobile device and the RAN can be configured to provide a disconnect request to avoid additional infrastructure. The request can then be vetted by the RAN.

Based on information available to the Evolved Packet Core EPC in communication with the RAN and or a cellular radio tower therein a determination can be made on whether to grant the request from the UE to tear down the messaging connection and cease substantially all uplink and downlink activities relative to the UE aside from paging messages. The available information can include information about among other types of information discussed below and apparent to prevent undue overhead a number of wireless mobile devices that could make similar demands of the RAN and the connection history of the given wireless mobile device making the demand to the RAN. The wireless mobile device can then wait until it receives an affirmative response to its request. Upon receiving the affirmative response the UE can tear down the messaging connection thereby ceasing most uplink and downlink transmissions and saving power without unduly straining the RAN. Additional details are discussed below.

In the process illustrated in a UE can be in a position to determine its potential need for an RRC connection and to balance that potential need against the ability to conserve power by severing the RRC connection. When the UE is allowed to control the process for disconnecting an RRC connection the UE can take advantage of the information it possess. Such information includes information about the UE s potential need for the RRC connection and its power constraints to determine when the benefits of saving power outweigh the benefits of maintaining an RRC connection from the perspective of the UE.

A wireless mobile device is depicted in with an icon indicative of remaining power within the UEs battery charge. Additionally a set of applications is depicted with the UE. The process begins with the UE evaluating its need for an RRC connection with a RAN which in some but not all embodiments can be an Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN .

The UE can make this evaluation on the basis of a potential need for communication with applications within the set of applications for the RRC connection. In certain embodiments the evaluation can also be balanced against the remaining power of the UE. Where the potential need for the RRC connection and or the remaining power indicate that the power cost of maintaining the RRC connection is no longer warranted the UE can determine to disconnect or tear down the RRC connection.

After the determination to disconnect the RRC connection the UE can inform an evolved Node B eNodeB within the E UTRAN of its intention to tear down the RRC connection with a disconnect request . The process concludes with the UE tearing down the RRC connection.

As can be appreciated the disconnect process depicted in can be one sided. The UE can make a determination based on an evaluation of its potential needs and concerns send a message to inform the E UTRAN of its intention and then tear down the RRC connection without waiting for any input from the E UTRAN. In other words the implications for the E UTRAN of tearing down the RRC connection are not considered. Although the process depicted in is beneficial to the UE it can have unintended consequences for the E UTRAN some of which can be illustrated with the help of .

After the determination has been made in embodiments that implement 3GPP LTE standards an RRC CONNECTION REQUEST message is sent from the UE to the E UTRAN . The E UTRAN responds with an RRC CONNECTION SETUP message . In turn the UE replies with an RRC CONNECTION SETUP COMPLETE message . The details for the RRC CONNECTION REQUEST message the RRC CONNECTION SETUP message and the RRC CONNECTION SETUP COMPLETE message can be found in specifications for 3GPP LTE particularly Technical Specification TS 25.331. Although the embodiment depicted in is described with messages specifically defined for 3GPP LTE this description is made for purposes of illustration not limitation. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize analogous messages for WiMAX and or other WWAN standards.

The three way handshaking involved in can serve to illustrate the amount of overhead involved every time that a UE needs to re establish an RRC connection after that connection has been disconnected. In addition to this overhead to a lesser extent overhead involved in the disconnection process also needs to be considered. Where control over the disconnection process resides with a wireless mobile device the impact of this overhead cannot be overlooked.

In the past RANs have experienced strain and even overload due to the overhead involved in tearing down and re establishing messaging connections as exemplified in part by . Wireless mobile devices have repeatedly used disconnection processes on a frequent basis to save battery power. Such wireless mobile devices have been known to cycle through the process of disconnecting and re establishing a connection with frequencies defined in milliseconds. For these reasons a UE controlled process for disconnecting RRC connections defined in Release 8 and Release 9 of the specifications for 3GPP LTE was removed for Release 10 and Release 11. Throughout this application Release 11 can refer to the prerelease i.e. State 2 freeze issued by 3GPP LTE in March of 2012. The strains experienced by RANs have also proved to be problems for non 3GPP LTE WWANs. The problems caused by Apple s iPhone which previously severed and reestablished connections with RANs with a high frequency to save battery power on non 3GPP LTE WWANs provide one example.

Often the E UTRAN makes a determination to allow a UE to tear down its RRC connection on the basis of a timer. Such a timer can begin after the UEs last use of the RRC connection . If the UE makes no additional use of the RRC connection before the timer expires a release message can be sent to the UE . The UE can then engage in the process of tearing down the RRC connection.

From the perspective of the E UTRAN the central concern is determining that the UE is actually finished with the RRC connection i.e. that data will not be communicated for a selected period of time. This time period can be relatively long. As a result the length of time that a UE waits before it can begin tearing down an RRC connection can have a significant impact on its ability to save power. These times can be measured in seconds and often span several minutes. This is a significant amount of time where the power cost of maintaining an RRC connection can be two orders of magnitude. Even if these times were shortened large inefficiencies are still likely to linger because individual UEs are in the best position to determine that the potential need for an RRC connection no longer merits the power cost. Furthermore as new technologies place ever increasing demands on battery power the need to conserve power becomes more pressing.

To reduce the amount of overhead and undesirable frequency of tear down and reestablishment of a messaging connection depicts a more balanced process to disconnect a messaging connection in accordance with an example. The process includes input from a wireless mobile device and a RAN . This input can be used to avoid inefficiencies in the ability of the wireless mobile device to save power and to avoid placing unwarranted strains on the RAN.

In one embodiment the process is initiated by a UE . However the process may proceed after the E UTRAN has had an opportunity to approve and sanction the process of tearing down the RRC connection. The process begins with the UE making a determination that an RRC connection messaging connection can be torn down. The determination can be made based on potential needs of a set of applications and or other information residing on and or local to the UE. Additionally the determination can be informed by a battery power level at the UE.

In one example a UE may decide to disconnect from the network if it is able to determine that there is no further network activity for the foreseeable future. The actual process for determining that no further network activity will occur for a period of time can be dependent on the type of UE and the Operating System OS used by the UE. For example an iPhone has software running in the OS that detects that the process has received all of the data needed by the iPhone from the network and no other process currently needs network access. The software running on the iPhone may thus decide to tear down the RRC connection. Another way to identify a time for tearing down an RRC connection is that an application itself can send signals to the radio layer that the application is done sending receiving any information i.e. a session has ended for example . This information may be used at the RRC layer to determine that the radio can be shut down to save power thereby allowing the UE to make the determination that an RRC connection messaging connection can be torn down.

Once the determination is made the UE can prepare generate and or create a disconnect request for disconnection of messaging connection RRC connection. The UE can then communicate and or send the disconnect request to the E UTRAN . In certain embodiments the UE can send the disconnect request to an EPC in communication with the E UTRAN or a cellular radio tower eNodeB within the RAN E UTRAN. The disconnect request can be embedded within a legacy message carrier message in certain embodiments so that an additional message does not need to be defined.

In certain embodiments making use of a legacy message the legacy message can include a field reserved for providing information about the cause behind the sending of the legacy message. In such embodiments this field can be filled with an indication that the cause is power saving. One non limiting example provided for purposes of illustration of such a legacy message in the context of 3GPP LTE is the CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message. The message is defined in the specifications for 3GPP LTE particularly TS 36.331.

The CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message includes a portion reserved for three bits used to indicate an establishment cause. The three bits make for 8 different potential values 6 of which are already defined. The two remaining values are referred to as spare and spare . Although it can be counterintuitive to use a message whose title states a purpose of establishing a connection to tear down the connection the legacy message lends itself to this role. The spare value can be used to indicate a cause to save power although the value of spare can also be used for this purpose. Upon receiving a CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT REQUEST from a given UE where the establishment cause has a value indicating a cause to save power the E UTRAN can interpret this message as a disconnect request.

Once the RAN and or a cellular radio tower therein receives the disconnect request the RAN can vet the request by making a determination about whether to approve sanction and or grant the tear down of the messaging connection at issue. A wide variety of factors can be used by the RAN and or cellular radio tower to make this determination. For example the number of wireless mobile devices served by the RAN and or cellular radio tower can be a factor. In some scenarios for example a larger number of wireless devices can give the RAN and or cellular radio tower a higher propensity to allow tear down of the messaging connection to proceed to reduce the load on the RAN and or cellular radio tower.

A log can also be made by an E UTRAN eNodeB to determine a number of times a particular UE has established and or torn down an RRC connection. The higher the number the less likely the E UTRAN eNodeB can be to approve the disconnect request to prevent too much overhead. However if there are fewer UEs being served in some embodiments and overhead is less of an issue the E UTRAN eNodeB can be more lenient thereby enabling a UE to tear down an RRC or other type of messaging connection more often. As a variation on this example a threshold level can be set for a number of RRC connections established and or disconnected in a predetermined amount of time such as by way of a non limiting example the number of times an RRC connection has been torn down within one minute. If the number is excessive then the UE may not be allowed to tear down the RRC connection for a period of time. For example if the tear down message is received more than 10 times a minute the UE may not be allowed to tear down the RRC connection for 30 seconds. These examples are not intended to be limiting. A broad range of time periods from tens of milliseconds to tens of minutes may be appropriate to monitor for excessive UE teardown requests based on system use and architecture of a WWAN.

In another example of a factor a timer can be set after an RRC or other type of messaging connection is established or torn down. The E UTRAN eNodeB can determine to sanction a tear down where a predetermined amount of time has elapsed. Examples of such times provided by way of illustration and not limitation can include a value in the range of 5 to 12 seconds and more particularly 9 seconds. The actual range may vary from tens of milliseconds to tens of seconds depending on system usage and system architecture of a WWAN. After this time period has passed the teardown of the RRC connection for a UE may be sanctioned by the E UTRAN eNodeB .

An additional consideration can be whether or not there is any data to be sent to and or received from the particular UE responsible for the disconnect request. Other factors and considerations based on information available to a RAN and its needs and functions are also possible. The factors involved and the manner in which they are weighted can be changed dynamically based on the setup and architecture of the WWAN.

The wireless mobile device can wait and or listen for the determination. After a determination to approve sanction and or grant the disconnect request the RAN and or cellular radio tower can send and the wireless mobile device can receive a disconnect determination release indication in response to the disconnect request. Upon receipt of the disconnect determination release indication approving sanctioning and or granting the disconnect request the wireless mobile device can proceed to tear down the messaging connection. The tear down process can be predefined. In some embodiments consistent with 3GPP LTE specifications the tear down process can comprise transitioning from an RRC CONNECTED state to an RRC IDLE state to save power.

From the perspective of the E UTRAN eNodeB the process can be described as receiving a UE request from a particular UE to allow disconnection of a UE messaging connection. The E UTRAN eNodeB can then implement a decision process along lines discussed above to determine whether to allow the UE request. Prior to engaging in the determination the E UTRAN eNodeB can extract the UE request from a predefined portion of a request message. In such embodiments the request message can be generated according to a legacy message format for communications from the UE to the E UTRAN eNodeB.

Since the process depicted in relies on input from a wireless mobile device some additional functionality at the wireless mobile device is called for. However as is often the case with various functionalities within a WWAN there may be wireless mobile devices that fail to immediately implement the functionality. This can lead to confusion as to how the tear down of messaging connections should be handled. For example the RAN can lack knowledge as to whether it needs to set timers and control the disconnect process along lines similar to those discussed with respect to . Similarly the RAN can lack knowledge as to whether it can allow the wireless mobile device to handle disconnect along lines similar to those discussed with respect to . Further still the RAN can lack knowledge as to whether it needs to be listening for a disconnect request to vet the appropriateness of a tear down on the messaging connection along lines similar to those discussed with respect to .

After preparing the indication the UE sends the indication to the E UTRAN and or an eNodeB therein. Upon receiving the indication the E UTRAN eNodeB can listen for a release request from the UE that sent the indication. Once the UE that sent the indication also sends a disconnect request the E UTRAN eNodeB can proceed along lines similar to those discussed with respect to . In the event that the E UTRAN eNodeB determines that the disconnect request is approved sanctioned and or granted the E UTRAN eNodeB can send a release indication . Upon receipt of the release indication the UE can commence the tear down of an RRC connection.

Once the indication is provided the whole process can run smoothly to the disconnection of an RRC connection. In some embodiments the indication can be generated by embedding the indication in a capability message. The capability message can indicate that the UE sending the capability message can support connection release for power saving. The capability message can be sent prior to the sending of a disconnect request.

In some of such embodiments the capability message can be generated by inserting a predefined index value and or bit index value in a capability indication message. As used herein the term bit index value refers to an index value for an indexed bit in a bit map used to indicate whether a given UE supports or does not support a particular function. In certain of such embodiments the indication message can be prepared according to a legacy indication format. When a legacy format is used the predefined index value bit index value can be assigned to a previously unassigned index value bit index value supported by the legacy indication format. Once the predefined index value bit index value is assigned the indication message can convey that the UE sending the indication message supports coordinated tear down of an RRC connection.

Embodiments consistent with specifications for 3GPP LTE can use the Feature Group Indicator FGI as defined in those specifications as the legacy format. The FGI format uses a bit map to indicate whether or not a function assigned to each bit is supported by the UE sending the FGI. In embodiments using an FGI unassigned bits can be used to convey whether or not the UE sending the FGI supports coordinated teardown as described in and . By way of example and not limitation unassigned bit and or unassigned bit of a 32 bit FGI can be used for this purpose. Alternative bit index values can be used. For example in larger FGIs unassigned bit index value can be used as well as unassigned values through .

For embodiments where the support of coordinated tear down along lines similar to those described in is mandatory the preparation generation of a capability indicator may not be necessary. In such embodiments the E UTRAN and or an eNodeB can assume that the UE supports coordinated tear down and proceed accordingly. For the purpose of providing additional illustration some additional embodiments consistent with examples that both involve and do not involve capability indicators are provided below.

The message module can be configured to prepare a disconnect request. The disconnect request can convey a request for disconnection of a UE messaging connection to an E UTRAN. The message module and the communication module can be in communication. The communication module can be configured to send the disconnect request to an eNodeB in the E UTRAN. Additionally the communication module can be configured to receive a disconnect determination in response to the disconnect request from the eNodeB.

A disconnect module can be also be in communication with the communication module. The disconnect module can be configured to tear down the UE messaging connection upon receipt of the disconnect determination when the disconnect determination sanctions disconnection. In some of such devices the disconnect request the disconnect determination and the UE messaging connection to be torn down can pertain to an RRC connection. Furthermore the tear down of the RRC connection can allow the UE to transition from an RRC CONNECTED state to an RRC IDLE state.

The message module can also be further configured to prepare the disconnect request by configuring a portion of a carrier message. The carrier message can be generated according to a legacy message format to convey the disconnect request. The disconnect request can be conveyed by indicating a cause of the carrier message as power saving.

Some devices can also include a capability module which can be in communication with the communication module . The capability module can be configured to prepare an indication to the E UTRAN that the UE is capable of disconnecting in response to the disconnect determination. The communication module can then send the indication to the eNodeB in the E UTRAN.

In some embodiments the capability module prepares the indication by inserting a predefined index value in an indication message and or by manipulating a bit with a predefined index value. The indication message can be generated according to a legacy indication format. The predefined index value bit with predefined index value is assigned to a previously unassigned value supported by the legacy indication format to convey that the UE supports the disconnect determination in response to the disconnect request.

Certain devices can also include a trigger module which can be in communication with the message module . The trigger module can be configured to trigger the message module to prepare the disconnect request based on information residing at the UE . In some embodiments the information residing at the UE can include information about potential uplink traffic to be sent from the UE. The information can also include information about potential downlink traffic to be received at the UE. The trigger module can trigger the preparation of the disconnect request by the messaging module based on a determination that the UE messaging connection is not required for a threshold period.

With respect to certain devices the message module prepares the disconnect request by setting an establishment cause in an RRC CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message to convey the reason behind the RRC CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message is to save power. Additionally the message module can also prepare the disconnect request to include a priority level. The priority level can indicate an importance of having the disconnect request granted. The priority level can be based on a power level of a battery at the UE .

The method can further comprise sending the disconnect request from the UE to an eNodeB. Additionally the method can comprise waiting on a determination from the eNodeB as to whether a disconnection can proceed. In some but not all embodiments an additional step of effectuating a predefined process for tearing down the RRC connection can be included. The additional step is pursued upon receiving an indication that the disconnection can proceed in response to the disconnect request.

In some embodiments the method of further comprises determining to generate the disconnect request based on information local to the UE. Depending on the embodiment the disconnect request can be embedded in a carrier message. Additionally the carrier message can be generated according to a legacy message format for communications between the UE and the eNodeB.

Certain embodiments can embed the disconnect request in a portion of the carrier message dedicated according to the legacy message format to indicate a cause behind communication of the carrier message. In such embodiments the disconnect request can comprise a defined cause category the defined cause category indicating a need to save power. For embodiments that make use of a legacy message format the legacy message format can be a format defined for an RRC CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message as defined in 3GPP LTE specifications for one of Releases 8 9 10 and 11.

Additionally the method can further comprise first generating at a UE a capability message to indicate that the UE is configured to support connection release for power saving. Such embodiments can also comprise sending the message to the eNodeB prior to sending the first disconnect request. For such embodiments the capability indicator message can be embedded in a capability indicator generated according to a legacy indicator format to communicate to the eNodeB a set of capabilities for which the UE is configured. Such a capability indicator message can comprise an index value and or an indexed bit indicating that the UE is configured to support a connection release for power saving. As a non limiting example the pre existing indicator format is a format defined for an FGI as defined in 3GPP specifications for one of Releases 8 9 10 and 11. Another example that can be implemented on a UE is also provided with respect to the following figure.

The process can comprise creating at a UE a request to disconnect an RRC connection between the UE and an eNodeB. The request can be communicated from the UE to the eNodeB. The UE can then listen for a response to the request from the eNodeB. Upon receipt of the response indicating that the request has been granted by the eNodeB the UE can begin tearing down the RRC connection.

In some embodiments the request can be embedded in a message generated according to a legacy message format. For certain of these embodiments the legacy format can be an RRC CONNECTION REESTABLISHMENT REQUEST message as defined in 3GPP specifications for one of Releases 8 9 10 and 11.

Certain embodiments can further comprise first indicating to the eNodeB by the UE that the UE is configured to send a request to disconnect the RRC connection between the UE and the eNodeB to save power at the UE. This indicating step can allow the eNodeB to anticipate the request. The step of first indicating to the eNodeB that the UE is configured to send a request to disconnect the RRC connection can further comprises embedding an indication in an indication message generated according to a legacy indication format. The description of the next figure turns to the perspective from an eNodeB in an E UTRAN.

The method can further comprise listening for the UE request after receiving a capability indication from the particular UE. The capability indication can indicate that the particular UE is configured to support disconnection to facilitate power saving at the particular UE upon approval by the eNodeB. Additionally the method can further comprise extracting the UE request from a predefined portion of a request message. The request message can have been generated in this portion according to a legacy message format for communication from the UE to the eNodeB.

In some embodiments the decision process can comprise the eNodeB evaluating the UE request based on a connection history for the UE maintained by the eNodeB. The decision process can use the connection history to determine if a sufficient amount of time has passed since previous activity of the UE related to its connection status with the eNodeB. When a sufficient amount of time has passed the eNodeB can allow the UE to disconnect and reconnect. The decision process can also comprise the eNodeB evaluating traffic demands from a set of UEs associated with the eNodeB. The eNodeB can evaluate the traffic demands to decide if the eNodeB can accommodate an amount of overhead associated with allowing the UE to disconnect and reconnect.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

