---

title: Generating event recommendations based upon media consumption
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for generating event recommendations. Embodiments of the disclosure obtain media consumption events corresponding to media consumption in a media player user interface. A pattern of media consumption for the user is identified. An artist recommendation is generated based upon the media consumption. An event recommendation is generated corresponding to the artist.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660971&OS=09660971&RS=09660971
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09660971
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120308
---
Users may play browse or consume media in a media player and or a media player user interface. Users may also be linked with other users in various social networking systems who may also play or browse media in a media player. Users may have an interest in learning about events in a particular location that are related to artists authors performers composers etc. which are related to media they consume. These users may often fail to obtain information about events within a particular location that are tailored to their interests and preferences.

Embodiments of the disclosure are directed to generating event recommendations to users consuming media in media players and or media player user interfaces generated by media hosting and or storage systems. Media consumption and or preferences of a user can be observed as well as a location associated with the user whether the location is a real time location and or a location that is specified by the user or from other data sources. Events that may be of interest to the user based upon the observed media consumption are generated and provided to the user. Additionally other information associated with the user can also be utilized to refine and or improve the recommendations. Some examples of additional information that can be employed includes but is not limited to media consumption activity of other users linked to the user in a social network other types of content in which the user expresses an interest artists or performers to which the user expresses an interest in a social networking or micro blogging system and other information as are discussed herein.

Information about the media consumption of a user may be obtained by way of a networked storage system that is employed by the user. Such a networked storage system may allow users to access their media items from a variety of locations through a variety of client computing devices. As a non limiting example a user may watch a movie file stored in the networked storage system at home using a networked television. As another non limiting example the user may continue watching the same movie file while on the go using a mobile device with network connectivity e.g. a smartphone tablet computer etc. Because the accesses are through the networked storage system media consumption patterns during a variety of times and at a variety of locations may be determined. Various techniques relating to recommending files based on file system content or activity are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 049 251 entitled FILE SYSTEM MERCHANDISING which was filed on Mar. 16 2011 and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 161 176 entitled RECOMMENDATIONS BASED ON FILE ACTIVITY IN A NETWORKED STORAGE SYSTEM which was filed on Jun. 15 2011 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Additionally various techniques for generating artist recommendations to a user based upon the activity of other users to which the user is linked in social networking systems are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 173 494 entitled MEDIA PLAYER SOCIAL NETWORK INTEGRATION which was filed on Jun. 30 2011 which is also incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The depicted networked environment illustrates one example of an implementation of a system according to an embodiment of the disclosure. It should be appreciated that embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented in various ways. The networked environment includes at least one computing device and one or more clients in communication over a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. For example a plurality of computing devices together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing device for example include a media player application an event recommendation service a demand prediction service and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. In one embodiment the media player application is executed to generate a media player user interface rendered in a browser or other application on a client . In some embodiments the media player application can be executed to provide data e.g. streaming media to a special purpose application executed on a client as well as allow the user on a client to submit data via such an application to the media player application and or other services executed by the computing device as will be described herein. The media player application can allow users to access media stored in the data store and or any other system such as a cloud storage system. In some embodiments the media player application can provide information about media other users and other data to an application executed on a client that accesses media stored locally on a client and or a storage device accessible to the client. In some embodiments the media player application can allow the user to purchase and or rent media that is downloaded and or streamed to a client associated with the user.

The event recommendation service can generate event recommendations that are associated with artists that are in or related to a media collection associated with a user. An event recommendation can comprise information about an event that is associated with an artist that is within or near a location associated with a user. The location can comprise a real time location of the user captured by a location finding capability of a mobile device or other computing system in which the media player user interface is rendered. The location can also comprise an address associated with a user profile of the user. An event can include a concert performance or other event that is in some way associated with an artist that is in or related to the user s media collection.

The demand prediction service can determine a predicted level of demand for tickets to a particular event in or near a particular location. The demand prediction service can determine a predicted level of demand based at least upon an aggregate number of users associated with a particular location to whom an event recommendation is provided as well as a conversion rate that expresses an aggregate percentage of users who are likely to act on such a recommendation and purchase tickets to the event.

The third party system connector can facilitate communication with an application programming interface provided by a third party system such as a social networking system microblogging system ticketing system or any other system or site in which content can be published and made available to the computing device . The third party system connector can facilitate publishing data within a third party system and or retrieving data regarding users from the third party system provided appropriate authentication credentials such as a username password pair an authentication token etc. are available. For example a third party system can provide an application programming interface API with which users or other entities can develop applications. The API can subject to authorization of a user expose various functionality of a social networking system to applications using the API such as access to information about users their friends interests images videos etc. In this way the media player application and or event recommendation service can via the third party system connector and the API publish content and or retrieve content from the third party system and subsequently display the content in a media player user interface and generate event recommendations based on the activity of other users to whom a user is linked as well as content the user interacts with in various third party systems as will be described herein.

Also the computing device can include at least one data store which may comprise data and applications operable to provide access to the data stored therein. It should be appreciated that the data store may or may not reside within a computing device but may be accessible via a network to the computing device . The data store can include media which can include various information about media associated with a user that can be consumed in a media player user interface. In the context of the present disclosure media can include audio video images or any other type of media that can be viewed and or streamed to a client . Various media stored in the data store can be associated with one or more users. Accordingly each media entry can be associated with one or more user identifiers . In one embodiment users can purchase and or upload media to be stored in the data store . Therefore the user identifiers associated with media entries can be employed to manage access restrictions and or digital rights management issues as should be appreciated. In one example the user identifiers associated with a media entry can identify users of the system that own or have the authority to download play and or stream the media . In another example a user may store a media file on a local file system in a client . Accordingly the user can be associated with a corresponding media entry so that the artist and or event recommendations can be generated for the user based upon the user s consumption associated with such a media file.

Each media entry can also include a media file . A media file can include a digital media file representing the media entry in one or more of various media formats. For example the media file associated with a media entry can include but is not limited to an MPEG 1 Audio Layer III MP3 file representing an audio track an MPEG 4 audio file flash video fly file or any audio video or image format in which media can be stored and or streamed to a client . Each media entry can also be associated with various meta data which can include artist information a title author album association genre or any other data by which a media entry can be categorized.

The data store can also include user data which can store information about users of a media player application as described herein. User data can include for example a user profile which can include demographic information about a user shipping addresses telephone numbers payment information e mail addresses purchasing history product browsing history affinity groups with which the user is affiliated and other data related to users. User data can also include one or more third party systems with which the user is associated. In one embodiment a user of the media player application can link one or more third party sites with an account of the user which can allow the media player application to access content associated with the user from the third party site as well as potentially publish information about the user s media consumption and or interests in the third party site.

User data can also include identifiers associated with one or more linked users with which the user is linked in a site facilitated by the media player application . Linked users can include friends or other acquaintances of the user that the user has authorized to receive information about the user s media consumption and or interests. Additionally the linked users represent other users for which a user desires to receive information about media consumption and or interests such as friends as well as artists in which a user expresses an interest. User data can also include a consumption history associated with a user account. In one embodiment a consumption history can include a browse history of various media available via the media player application media that the user has consumed played and or indicated an interest user interactions with content that can associated with a media entry an artist and or any other meta data associated with a media entry. The consumption history can be received from a client device in the form of media consumption events as will be described herein.

The third party system can include any type of user community microblogging service etc. A user of a social networking system can have an identity and interact with other users of the social networking system publish content and take advantage of other functionality generally found within a social networking system. Users can have a direct connection to other users. In one embodiment a user can establish a direct connection within a third party system with another user who is considered a friend. Users of the social networking system can also have an affiliation with a location interest groups topics or other non user entities. As one example a user in a third party system can establish an association with a university or any other topic that interests the user and be connected with other users establishing the same association. Other variations should be appreciated as should the general functionality of this and other examples of a third party system.

A user of a third party system can publish content that can be viewable to other users linked to the user. In some third party systems for example the content can be available to friends followers and or users in the publisher s network. As some examples the user can publish text images video and other media. In other words a user can publish a feed which can be available to other users in the third party system. Users can also be associated with a timeline and or a news feed which can among other things include information regarding other users with which they are associated in the third party system. As some examples a timeline of a user can include information such as birthdays anniversaries and or other events associated with other users with which the user has a connection. Accordingly the third party system can also maintain a user data store which can house information about the various users the third party system. In the depicted example the user data store can store profile data as well as user associations or linkages within the third party system.

The client is representative of a plurality of devices that may be coupled to the network . The client may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone set top box music players web pads tablet computer systems or other devices with like capability.

The client may be configured to execute various applications such as a browser and or other applications. The browser may be executed in a client for example to access and render network pages such as web pages or other content served up by the computing device and or other servers in which a media player user interface generated by the media player application can be rendered. The client may be configured to execute applications beyond a browser such as for example email applications instant message applications and or other applications. Accordingly in some embodiments a user can manipulate a user interface presented in the form of network pages shown on a display device via the browser or other application that causes interaction with the computing device .

Another example of a client that can interact with the computing device includes a client that can execute a special purpose application such as a mobile application that can render the media player user interface . Such an application can allow the user to download upload and or stream media to or from the media player application as well as transmit and or receive information that can be displayed in the user interface rendered on the client . In some embodiments such a client may also include a desktop computer tablet computing system smartphone or any other device in which a special purpose application can be executed.

In either scenario a user s interactions with the media player user interface can cause media consumption events that relate to media the user consumes and or in which the user has an interest that are generated by the media player user interface and transmitted to the media player application which can associate the media consumption events with a user s consumption history . Additionally event recommendations can be generated by the event recommendation service based upon the consumption history of the user and these event recommendations can be placed within the media player user interface as described herein.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin the media player application can allow users to consume media stored in the data store and or on a client in a media player user interface generated by the media player application and rendered in a browser. The media player application can also provide data that can be displayed in a media player user interface generated by a client media player application executed on a client . The media player application can receive media consumption events generated by the user s activity within the media player user interface and store the user s activity in the user s consumption history .

A media consumption event can correspond to a user playing a media item in the media player user interface . Accordingly the media consumption event can identify the media item played by the user. A media consumption event can also correspond to the user s interactions with content extracted from a third party social networking system and rendered in the media player user interface . Accordingly if a user follows a hyperlink provided in an artist feed in a social networking system where the user can be a follower of the artist the media player user interface can generate a media consumption event corresponding to that interaction. In this scenario the media consumption event can identify the artist with which the user is interacting.

As an additional an example a media consumption event can be generated that corresponds to the user commenting on or liking content in the user s feed where the content corresponds to an artist and or song that may be present in the user s media collection or in the media collection of another user to which the user is linked in a social networking system. In this scenario the user may follow a hyperlink presented in the media player user interface that corresponds to such an action and the media player user interface is configured to generate and transmit to the computing device a media consumption event identifying the hyperlink the user followed and or an artist and or media item that is associated with the hyperlink.

In one embodiment the media player application can receive the media consumption event corresponding to a hyperlink followed by a user in the media player user interface . Accordingly the media player application can extract text from the hyperlink and or a destination site associated with the hyperlink and attempt to match the text with meta data associated with a media item in the user s media collection or with media entries that are potentially not present in the user s media collection. Upon matching of the text with an artist and or media item the media player application can create a corresponding entry in the consumption history of the user.

The event recommendation service can generate event recommendations for users that can be rendered in a module in the media player user interface or otherwise transmitted to a user. The event recommendation service can generate event recommendations by identifying a pattern of media consumption of a user generating artist recommendations based on the consumption history of the user and then generating an event recommendation when an event corresponding to the artist is occurring within or near a location associated with the user. The artist recommendation can be based upon whether media items corresponding to an artist appear in the consumption history of a user. In other words if a user listens to a particular artist then the event recommendation service can generate a corresponding artist recommendation.

As an additional example an artist recommendation can be generated for the user by identifying media items that are similar to entries in the user s consumption history . For example the event recommendation service can generate an artist recommendation for a user by identifying media items that include meta data that also includes the same genre artist or other attributes. As another example in the case of an artist in the consumption history of the user comprising more than one person the event recommendation service can generate an artist recommendation by identifying other media items that may include one or more of these persons but under a different artist designation.

The event recommendation service can also generate an artist recommendation by identifying an intensity of interest in a particular artist based upon a frequency with which media consumption events appear in the consumption history of a user relative to other artists. For example a user may have a very intense interest in a particular artist if the artist appears in a higher percentage of the consumption history relative to other artists. Additionally content from an artist that is published in a third party system and followed by the user such as in a social networking system can be retrieved and rendered in a social networking module in the media player user interface . Accordingly if the user interacts with content originating from an artist a corresponding media consumption event can be generated and stored in the consumption history associated with the user.

The event recommendation service can generate an artist recommendation based upon the consumption history of other users to which a user is linked in a social networking system or any other third party system. For example the event recommendation service can identify media items in the media collection of other users to which the user is linked and generate an artist recommendation based upon the consumption history of friends of the user. As an additional example the event recommendation service can determine from a timeline or posts in a third party system of the other user whether the other user intends to attend a particular event associated with an artist. The event recommendation service can then generate an artist recommendation for a user if another user to which he or she is linked is attending the event. Such an indication can be detected by determining whether the other user has purchased tickets to the event via an electronic commerce system to which the event recommendation service has access to a purchase history of the other user. As another example the event recommendation service can generate such an artist recommendation from a textual analysis of content posted by the other user in a third party system to determine whether the user expresses an indication that he or she is attending an event associated with an artist such as in a status update or post in a social networking system microblogging system or other system in which a user can publish content that is made available to the user.

Upon generating an artist recommendation for a user the event recommendation service can then determine whether an event associated with the artist is taking place within an adjustable time window and within a certain location that is associated with the user. The event recommendation service can access a third party system such as a third party ticketing system via the third party system connector in order to determine whether an event corresponding to the artist is taking place within the location. The event recommendation service can also maintain in the data store a list of events that are indexed by artist and or location to determine whether an event associated with the artist is taking place in or near the location associated with the user.

The location associated with the user can be determined by identifying a shipping address home address and or any other address in a user profile of the user. Additionally the location can be received from the client via a location finding system in the client e.g. GPS GLONASS etc. that detects a location of a device. Accordingly the event recommendation service can provide event recommendations that are associated with an artist and that occur within or near the location. For example the event recommendation service can generate an event recommendation that corresponds to an event featuring the artist that occurs within a predetermined or configurable distance radio of one or more location in the user profile and or the real time location of the user.

As noted above the event recommendation service can identify an intensity of interest in an artist of a particular user. Accordingly the event recommendation service can also include a ticket pricing tier component with an event recommendation . In this example the ticket pricing tier component of the event recommendation can include a recommended seat and or pricing tier to the event. In one scenario the higher an intensity of interest in a particular artist of a user the higher the recommended pricing tier that can be recommended. Conversely the lower an intensity of interest in a particular artist the lower the recommended pricing tier that can be recommended.

Additionally the event recommendation service can also employ a level of intensity of interest to select a distance from the user s location corresponding to an event recommendation. For example the event recommendation service can select an event to recommend to a user with a high intensity of interest in an artist that is a greater distance from the user s location than a user with a low intensity of interest in the artist. Conversely the event recommendation service may provide an event recommendation to a user with a low intensity of interest in an artist if the event is located closer to the user s location relative to other artist events for which the user has a high intensity of interest in the artist.

The demand prediction service can predict a number of users of for example a media streaming service facilitated by the computing device that are likely to purchase tickets to a given event occurring in a particular location. The demand prediction service can generate such a prediction by determining an aggregate number of users to which an event recommendation is provided. Then the demand prediction service can multiply a conversion rate by the number of users to which the event recommendation is generated to determine a number of users likely to purchase tickets to the event. The conversion rate can represent a percentage of people to whom an event recommendation or other advertisement and or information about the event is provided that will purchase a ticket to the event.

Upon generating a demand prediction associated with an event in some embodiments the demand prediction service can reserve or initiate purchase of a block of tickets to the event that can be offered for resale to users to whom an event recommendation is provided. The demand prediction service can interact with a third party system via the third party system connector to initiate purchase of tickets to an event via an event ticketing system. As noted above because a recommended pricing tier of a ticket can be identified the demand prediction service can also initiate purchase of tickets to an event of varying ticket pricing tiers to match the aggregate total of recommended pricing tiers provided in respective event recommendations to users.

Additionally the demand prediction service can also gauge demand for a potential event in a given location based upon a number of users to whom an event recommendation would be generated if a hypothetical event were booked in the location. Accordingly the demand prediction service can provide such a recommendation to an artist that provides an estimate of potential ticket sales should an event be booked in a given location. Such a recommendation is therefore based upon the music consumption habits of a plurality of users rather than merely a music purchasing history of the users.

In the depicted event recommendation module the event recommendation service can provide one or more event recommendations that can be rendered in the event recommendation module . As noted above the event recommendations are based upon the consumption history of the user which comprises one or more media consumption events that correspond to media played by the user and or other content with which the user interacts in the media player user interface . For example media consumption events can be generated when the user interacts with content in the social networking module from which an artist recommendation and subsequent event recommendation is generated.

Media consumption events can also be generated that are based upon the user s interactions with a media item itself. For example if a user interacts with user interface elements that allows the user to add and or purchase media items express that he or she likes a particular media item comments on the media item shares the media item with other users etc. then a media consumption event corresponding to these interactions are generated by the media player user interface .

Reference is now made to which continues the example of . In the media player user interface shown in the social networking module is shown to display content originating from an artist e.g. an artist s official feed content from a band member etc. . Accordingly a user s interactions with such content can generate media consumption events that correspond to the artist thereby potentially causing an event recommendation to be generated by the event recommendation service and rendered in the event recommendation module in the media player user interface .

Reference is now made to which illustrates an example of an event recommendation generated by the event recommendation service as well as an offer to resell tickets for which purchase was initiated based upon a predicted demand calculated by the demand prediction service . In the depicted example a block of tickets at varying pricing tiers were purchased and offered to users based upon a number of users likely to purchase tickets to the event which is determined from a conversion rate as well as an aggregate number of users in a particular location to whom the event recommendation is provided.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the event recommendation service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the event recommendation service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the event recommendation service can obtain media consumption events corresponding to a user s media consumption history . In box the event recommendation service can identify a pattern of media consumption by the user which can include a frequency with which the user consumes media associated with certain genres artists or other meta data. In box the event recommendation service can generate an artist recommendation based upon the media consumption patterns that are identified. In box the event recommendation service can identify whether an event corresponding to the artist is occurring within or near a location associated with the user such as a shipping address home address and or real time location of the user. In box the event recommendation service can generate an event recommendation for the user if such an event is located. As noted above the event recommendation can be provided to a media player user interface along with hyperlinks with which a user can acquire tickets to the event.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the demand prediction service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the demand prediction service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the demand prediction service can generate artist recommendations based upon media consumption patterns of a plurality of users. In box the demand prediction service can generate an event recommendation corresponding to the artist. In box the demand prediction service can calculate a number of users to whom the event recommendation is provided. In box the number of users likely to buy tickets to the event can be calculated by employing a conversion rate. The conversion rate can be user configurable or based upon conversion rates that are generally employed in an event ticketing environment.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the media player application event recommendation service demand prediction service third party system connector and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Delphi Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as comusic player applicationct disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the media player application event recommendation service demand prediction service and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the event recommendation service and demand prediction service . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the media player application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

