---

title: Method and apparatus for adaptive control of neurostimulation using cardiac restitution
abstract: A neurostimulation system measures a cardiac parameter at various cardiac intervals and analyzes its restitution, including computing a restitution slope being a rate of change of the restitution parameter with respect to change in the cardiac interval. In various embodiments, the system uses the restitution slope to provide for adaptive control of neurostimulation. In various embodiments, one or more cardiac parameters such as action potential duration (APD), conduction velocity (CV), QT interval (QT), and/or T-wave morphology (TM) parameter are measured and analyzed for restitution of each parameter, which is then used to control the delivery of the neurostimulation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09126045&OS=09126045&RS=09126045
owner: Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc.
number: 09126045
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120815
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of Shome et al. U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 526 900 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ADAPTIVE CONTROL OF NEUROSTIMULATION USING CARDIAC RESTITUTION filed on Aug. 24 2011 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This document relates generally to neurostimulation and more particularly to a system and method for controlling delivery of neurostimulation using cardiac restitution.

Neurostimulation has been applied to modulate various physiologic functions and treat various diseases. One example is the modulation of cardiac functions using autonomic modulation therapy AMT such as vagus nerve stimulation VNS therapy in a patient suffering heart failure or myocardial infarction. The myocardium is innervated with sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves including the cardiac branches of the vagus nerve. Activities in the vagus nerve including artificially applied electrical stimuli modulate the heart rate and contractility strength of the myocardial contractions . Electrical stimulation applied to the vagus nerve is known to decrease the heart rate and the contractility lengthening the systolic phase of a cardiac cycle and shortening the diastolic phase of the cardiac cycle. This ability of VNS is utilized for example to control myocardial remodeling.

Because a patient s physiological conditions and response to AMT changes over time there is a need for providing adaptive control of the therapy.

A neurostimulation system measures a cardiac parameter at various cardiac intervals and analyzes its restitution including computing a restitution slope being a rate of change of the cardiac parameter with respect to change in the cardiac interval. In various embodiments the system uses the restitution slope to provide for adaptive control of neurostimulation. In various embodiments one or more cardiac parameters such as action potential duration APD conduction velocity CV QT interval QT and or T wave morphology TM parameter are measured and analyzed for restitution of each parameter which is then used to control the delivery of the neurostimulation.

In one embodiment a neurostimulation system includes a stimulation output circuit a sensing input and a control circuit. The stimulation output circuit delivers neurostimulation. The sensing input receives one or more cardiac signals. The control circuit includes a measurement circuit a restitution analyzer and a stimulation controller. The measurement circuit measures a cardiac interval and a restitution parameter using the one or more cardiac signals. The restitution analyzer analyzes restitution of the restitution parameter and includes a slope computer. The slope computer computes a restitution slope using the values of the restitution parameter measured at a plurality of cardiac intervals. The restitution slope is a rate of change of the restitution parameter with respect to change in the cardiac interval. The stimulation controller controls the delivery of the neurostimulation using the restitution slope.

In one embodiment a method for controlling delivery of neurostimulation is provided. One or more cardiac signals are sensed. A restitution parameter is measured using the sensed one or more cardiac signals at a plurality of cardiac intervals covering a specified range of cardiac intervals. A restitution slope is computed using the values of the restitution parameter measured at the plurality of cardiac intervals. The restitution slope is the rate of change of the restitution parameter with respect to change in the cardiac interval. The delivery of the neurostimulation is controlled using the restitution slope.

This Summary is an overview of some of the teachings of the present application and not intended to be an exclusive or exhaustive treatment of the present subject matter. Further details about the present subject matter are found in the detailed description and appended claims. Other aspects of the invention will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the following detailed description and viewing the drawings that form a part thereof. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that the embodiments may be combined or that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description provides examples and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents.

It should be noted that references to an one or various embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references contemplate more than one embodiment.

This document discusses a method and system for adaptive control of neurostimulation therapy using one or more sensed parameters indicative of cardiac restitution. The neurostimulation includes autonomic modulation therapy AMT . Cardiac restitution indicates dynamic electrophysiological heterogeneity of cardiac tissue. In various embodiments the adaptive control includes therapy titration for maintaining effectiveness of the neurostimulation in modulating one or more cardiovascular functions.

In various embodiments restitution of one or more cardiac parameters is analyzed. In this document a restitution parameter refers to a cardiac parameter whose restitution is analyzed. Examples of restitution parameters used in the present method and system include action potential duration APD conduction velocity CV QT interval and or T wave morphology TM APD is the duration of the action potential when propagating in cardiac myocytes. CV is the velocity at which an action potential propagates in cardiac myocytes. QT interval is the time interval between ventricular depolarization and repolarization i.e. between a Q wave and the subsequently adjacent R wave on an electrocardiogram or intracardiac electrogram . TM morphology is represented by one or more TM parameters including amplitude and timing parameters measured from a T wave such as T wave amplitude T wave width and a time interval between the peak and the end of a T wave. Restitution of a cardiac parameter is the functional relationship between that cardiac parameter and the cardiac interval. In one embodiment the cardiac interval is a diastolic interval measured as the RR interval time interval between two consecutive R waves measured from an electrocardiogram or intracardiac electrogram . A restitution curve is a curve of the restitution parameter plotted against the cardiac interval. A restitution curve may be constructed by varying the RR interval measuring the resulting values of the restitution parameter and plotting these values of the restitution parameter against the RR interval. In one embodiment the restitution curve is a line constructed using linear regression. A restitution slope is the slope of the restitution curve and is the rate of change of the restitution parameter with respect to change in the cardiac interval.

Vagus nerve stimulation VNS leads to release of acetylcholine ACh which in turn prolongs or shortens APD in a dose dependent manner. VNS may also act to change arrhythmogenic substrate such that the myocardium is less prone to arrhythmia. The steepness of a restitution curve has been shown to be a reliable indicator of the arrhythmogenicity of the substrate. Thus in the present method and system the steepness of a restitution curve i.e. the restitution slope is used to indicate efficacy of the neurostimulation including AMT.

In various embodiments APD and CV are each approximated by a surrogate and the APD and or CV restitution curves are computed using their surrogates. In one embodiment an APD surrogate includes an activation recovery interval ARI computed from an intracardiac electrogram at one or more locations. In one embodiment a CV surrogate includes the latency between the observations of a single event at two separate electrogram recording sites. In another embodiment a CV surrogate includes QRS width measured from an electrogram. In this document an APD parameter includes one or more parameters representing the APD and a CV parameter includes one or more parameters representing the CV. An APD parameter may be directly measured or approximated by a surrogate. A CV parameter may also be directly measured or approximated by a surrogate.

The cardiac interval may also be expressed as heart rate. The RR interval may also be expressed as a ventricular rate which may be measured as the heart rate of a patient. The relationship between such a rate and an interval is the relationship between a frequency and its corresponding period. If the heart rate is given in beats per minute bpm its corresponding cardiac interval in milliseconds is calculated by dividing 60 000 by the heart rate where 60 000 is the number of milliseconds in a minute . Any process using a cardiac interval is to be modified accordingly when a heart rate is used instead.

Once produced a restitution curve or slope is used to guide a neurostimulation therapy for purposes of improving or maintaining a patient s cardiac functions. In various embodiments one or more restitution curves are used to indicate efficacy of the neurostimulation therapy. The steepness of each of the restitution curves while the neurostimulation therapy is applied to the patient provides a measure of therapy efficacy. In various embodiments one or more restitution curves are each constructed by linear regression using measured values of one or more cardiac parameters and the associated cardiac intervals. The slope of each cardiac restitution curve is computed and used for adaptive control of the neurostimulation therapy. In various embodiments the one or more restitution curves are used to form a feedback loop to automatically titrate or modify the neurostimulation therapy as needed.

One or more electrodes are electrically connected to neurostimulation circuit through a neural lead and placed on or near a nerve to allow for delivery of neurostimulation from neurostimulation circuit to modulate functions of the patient s heart . Nerve represents a nerve of the patient s autonomic nervous system such as the vagus nerve. One or more electrodes are electrically connected to cardiac pacing circuit through a cardiac lead and placed in or near heart to allow for delivery of pacing pulses from cardiac pacing circuit . Sensing circuit senses one or more cardiac signals using electrode s and or electrode s . In various embodiments when neurostimulation circuit and cardiac pacing circuit are constructed in separate devices sensing circuit may be constructed as part of neurostimulation circuit part of cardiac pacing circuit or both depending on the type of the one or more cardiac signals to be sensed. As discussed below neurostimulation circuit analyzes cardiac restitution using the one or more cardiac signals and controls delivery of the neurostimulation using results of the analysis.

In various embodiments the one or more cardiac signals sensed by sensing circuit include one or more intracardiac electrograms one or more subcutaneous electrocardiograms ECGs and or one or more surface ECGs. Electrodes and represent various electrodes allowing for sensing of such one or more cardiac signals. In one embodiment sensing circuit is programmable for selective connection to electrodes and or that provides for sensing one or more cardiac signals to allow measurement circuit to perform reliable measurement of parameters. One example of such one or more cardiac signal includes a cardiac signal with a high P wave amplitude when P wave is detected for measurement of a restitution parameter. In one embodiment sensing circuit is programmable for selective connection to electrodes and or that provides for sensing of two or more cardiac signals to allow measurement circuit to perform reliable measurement of the parameters by signal averaging or averaging of the measured parameters.

In various embodiments neurostimulation circuit including its various elements discussed in this document is implemented using a combination of hardware and software. In various embodiments measurement circuit restitution analyzer and stimulation controller including their various elements discussed in this document may be implemented using an application specific circuit constructed to perform one or more particular functions or a general purpose circuit programmed to perform such function s . Such a general purpose circuit includes but is not limited to a microprocessor or a portion thereof a microcontroller or portions thereof and a programmable logic circuit or a portion thereof.

Measurement circuit represents an embodiment of measurement circuit and includes a cardiac interval measurement circuit and a restitution parameter measurement circuit . Cardiac interval measurement circuit measures the cardiac interval using one of the one or more cardiac signals. In one embodiment cardiac interval measurement circuit measures an RR interval as the cardiac interval using a ventricular electrogram. The RR interval is the time interval between two successive R waves in the ventricular electrogram. Restitution parameter measurement circuit measures values of each of the one or more restitution parameters at a plurality of cardiac intervals. Examples of the one or more restitution parameters include the APD parameter the CV parameter the QT interval and the TM parameter. In various embodiments restitution parameter measurement circuit measures the one or more restitution parameters each as a directly measured parameter or a measured surrogate. In the illustrated embodiment restitution parameter measurement circuit includes an APD measurement circuit a CV measurement circuit a QT measurement circuit and a TM measurement circuit . In various embodiments restitution parameter measurement circuit includes APD measurement circuit CV measurement circuit QT measurement circuit TM measurement circuit or any combination of two or three of these circuits.

APD measurement circuit measures an APD parameter using the one or more cardiac signals. is an illustration of an embodiment of measuring an APD parameter from an intracardiac electrogram. In the illustrated embodiment APD measurement circuit measures an activation recovery interval ARI as the APD parameter using the intracardiac electrogram. The ARI is a time interval between a first point associated with a maximum negative amplitude change down slope in an R wave and a second point associated with a maximum positive amplitude change up slope in a T wave in the intracardiac electrogram.

CV measurement circuit measures a CV parameter using the one or more cardiac signals. is an illustration of an embodiment of measuring a CV parameter from intracardiac electrograms. In the illustrated embodiment CV measurement circuit measures a time interval CV between occurrence of a cardiac event in a first intracardiac electrogram and occurrence of the cardiac event in a second intracardiac electrogram. The first and second intracardiac electrograms are sensed using electrodes placed in substantially different sites. In the illustrated embodiment the cardiac event is an R wave. is an illustration of another embodiment of measuring the CV parameter from an intracardiac electrogram. In the illustrated embodiment CV measurement circuit measures a QRS width as the CV parameter CV from the intracardiac electrogram.

QT measurement circuit measures a QT interval using the one or more cardiac signals. In one embodiment a small vector ECG is measured using electrodes on the housing of an implantable medical device and or one or more neural leads connected to the implantable medical device. is an illustration of an embodiment of measuring a QT interval from a small vector ECG. In another embodiment QT measurement circuit measures the QT interval using a surface ECG signal. In the illustrated embodiment QT measurement circuit measures the QT interval being a time interval between the Q wave and the subsequent T wave in a cardiac cycle.

TM measurement circuit measures a TM parameter using the one or more cardiac signals. is an illustration of an embodiment of measuring a TM parameter from an intracardiac electrogram subcutaneous ECG or surface ECG. In the illustrated embodiment TM measurement circuit measures an amplitude of a T wave such as the voltage of the peak of the T wave. is an illustration of another embodiment of measuring the TM parameter using the one or more cardiac signals. In the illustrated embodiment TM measurement circuit measures a width of a T wave such as the time interval during which the T wave amplitude exceeds a specified threshold. is an illustration of another embodiment of measuring the TM parameter using the one or more cardiac signals. In the illustrated embodiment TM measurement circuit measures a time interval between the peak and the end of a T wave. In one embodiment the end of the T wave occurs when the T wave amplitudes fails below a specified threshold.

Restitution analyzer represents an embodiment of restitution analyzer and includes a slope computer which represents an embodiment of slope computer . In the illustrated embodiment restitution analyzer analyzes restitution of each of the APD parameter CV parameter QT interval and TM parameter and slope computer compute each of the APD restitution slope the CV restitution slope the QT restitution slope and the TM restitution slope. In various embodiments restitution analyzer analyzes restitution of each of one or more of the APD parameter CV parameter QT interval or TM parameter and slope computer computes each of one or more of the APD restitution slope the CV restitution slope the QT restitution slope or the TM restitution slope. In one embodiment as illustrated in slope computer computes each restitution slope using linear regression. The restitution slope is a slope of a restitution curve resulting from linear regression of the measured values of the restitution parameter plotted against the plurality of values of the cardiac interval.

Stimulation controller represents an embodiment of stimulation controller and controls the delivery of the neurostimulation using one or more restitution slopes provided by slope computer . In various embodiments stimulation controller controls the delivery of the neurostimulation with stimulation parameters programmed for treating one or more cardiovascular disorders. Examples of the one or more cardiovascular disorders include heart failure atrial and ventricular arrhythmias myocardial infarction including post myocardial infarction disorders renal failure hypertension and syncope. In various embodiments stimulation controller determines whether each computed restitution slope is within a specified target range and adjusts the stimulation parameters using an outcome of the determination. Stimulation controller includes a comparator and a stimulation adjuster . Comparator compares each restitution slope to the specified target range which includes one or more thresholds. Stimulation adjuster adjusts the delivery of the neurostimulation using an outcome of the comparison. In one embodiment a restitution slope being within the specified target range when neurostimulation is being delivered indicates that the neurostimulation has been effective or that the patient does not need neurostimulation. Thus stimulation adjuster stops or maintains the delivery of the neurostimulation in response to the restitution slope being within the specified target range. A restitution slope being outside the specified target range when the neurostimulation is being delivered indicates that the neurostimulation has not been effective. Thus stimulation adjuster adjusts the stimulation parameters in response to the computed restitution slope being outside the specified target range. A restitution slope being outside the specified target range when the neurostimulation is not being delivered indicates that the patient needs neurostimulation. Thus stimulation adjuster starts the delivery of the neurostimulation in response to the computed restitution slope being outside the specified target range.

In various embodiments when multiple restitution parameters are analyzed measurement circuit measures the cardiac interval and the multiple restitution parameters using the sensed one or more cardiac signals restitution analyzer computes multiple restitution slopes each being the rate of change of one of the multiple restitution parameters with respect to the change in the cardiac interval and stimulation controller controls the delivery of the neurostimulation using the multiple restitution slopes. In one embodiment the target range for the multiple restitution parameters includes a sub target range for each slope of the multiple restitution slopes. The sub target range includes one or more thresholds. Comparator compares the each slope to its sub target range and determines whether the restitution slopes are within the specified target range by using a weighted sum of results of the comparisons.

Analysis initiator initiates a restitution analysis by restitution analyzer . Each restitution analysis includes computation of one or more restitution slopes. Stimulation adjuster adjusts the delivery of the neurostimulation in response to each computation of the restitution slope that results in a need for adjustment. In various embodiments analysis initiator initiates the restitution analysis according to a specified schedule such as on a periodic basis. Clock times the specified schedule. In one embodiment analysis initiator initiates the restitution analysis at a specified time each day. In another embodiment analysis initiator initiates the restitution analysis at a period of approximately 21 hours. This 21 hour period allows the restitution analysis to approximately cover each stage in the circadian rhythm of the patient in a week. In various other embodiments analysis initiator detects a specified type triggering event and initiates the restitution analysis in response to a detection of the specified type triggering event. In one embodiment the specified type triggering event indicates an onset of a period during which the patient s cardiac interval is expected to vary substantially thus allowing for the restitution analysis. Examples of such a triggering event include a signal from the patient indicating the beginning of an exercise and a signal from control circuit or other device indicating the beginning of a stimulation sequence during which the patient s cardiac interval is controlled to provide the range of cardiac intervals required for the restitution analysis. In one embodiment the stimulation sequence is a cardiac pacing sequence. In another embodiment the stimulation sequence is a neurostimulation sequence.

System includes an implantable system and an external system . Implantable system includes an implantable medical device IMD . External system and IMD communicate via a telemetry link . In various embodiments IMD is a neurostimulator including neurostimulation circuit including its various embodiments. In various embodiments IMD integrates a cardiac rhythm management CRM device with a neural sensing and stimulation device and thus includes portions of system including its various embodiments. The CRM device senses cardiac electrical activities and delivers cardiac pacing pulses. Examples of the CRM device include pacemakers cardioverter defibrillators combined pacemaker cardioverter defibrillators cardiac resynchronization therapy CRT devices and cardiac remodeling control therapy RCT devices. In various embodiments neural activities are sensed to indicate a need for cardiac stimulation and or to control the timing of pacing pulse deliveries. In various embodiments cardiac activities are sensed to control the timing of neural stimulation pulse deliveries such as to synchronize neural stimulation to cardiac cycles.

Implantable system represents an embodiment of implantable system and includes leads and electrodes and an IMD . Leads and electrodes allow for delivery of the neurostimulation and optionally cardiac pacing from IMD . IMD represents an embodiment of IMD and includes an IMD circuit and an implantable housing encapsulating IMD circuit . In one embodiment IMD circuit includes neurostimulation circuit or . In another embodiment IMD circuit further includes cardiac pacing circuit and or sensing circuit . In various embodiments electrodes are incorporated onto one or more leads and or implantable housing . In one embodiment leads and electrodes includes intracardiac leads for sensing intracardiac electrograms such as the ventricular electrograms discussed in this document. In one embodiment leads and electrodes includes electrodes on the housing of the implantable neurostimulator and or one or more neurostimulation leads for sensing the small vector ECG discussed in this document. External system is an embodiment of external system and is communicatively coupled to IMD via telemetry link . External system includes a user interface . User interface includes a presentation device and a user input device . Presentation device presents for example signals and parameters used for the restitution analysis and results of the restitution analysis. In the illustrated embodiment presentation device includes a display screen and a printer . User input device includes a parameter input device and a command input device . Parameter input device allows a user to adjust the stimulation parameters. In one embodiment parameter input device also allows the user to select one or more restitution parameters for the restitution analysis. Command input device allows the user to enter commands controlling the operation of system such as a command for initiating the restitution analysis and a subsequent adjustment of the neurostimulation.

In one embodiment external system includes a programmer including user interface . In one embodiment external system includes a patient management system including an external device communicatively coupled to IMD via telemetry link and a remote device in a distant location and communicatively coupled to the external device via a communication network. The external device and or the remote device include user interface .

At one or more cardiac signals are sensed from a patient. At a restitution parameter is measured using the sensed one or more cardiac signals at a plurality of cardiac intervals. Examples of the restitution parameter include the APD parameter the CV parameter the QT interval and the TM parameter as discussed above. The plurality of cardiac intervals covers a specified range of cardiac intervals. In one embodiment the patient s intrinsic RR interval is measured as the cardiac interval using one of the sensed one or more cardiac signals. In another embodiment the cardiac intervals are controlled by delivering cardiac pacing pulses to the patient. At a restitution slope is computed using the values of the restitution parameter measured at the plurality of cardiac intervals. The restitution slope is a rate of change of the restitution parameter with respect to change in the cardiac interval. At delivery of the neurostimulation is controlled using the restitution slope.

Examples of the restitution parameter in each of methods and include the APD parameter the CV parameter the QT interval and the TM parameter as discussed above. While one restitution parameter is discussed as an example of each of methods and in various embodiments of these methods one or more restitution parameters including the APD parameter the CV parameter the QT parameter and or the TM parameter are measured and analyzed resulting in one or more restitution slopes. The delivery of the neurostimulation is controlled using the one or more restitution slopes.

In one embodiment multiple restitution parameters are measured and multiple restitution slopes are computed. The target range for the multiple restitution slopes includes sub target ranges each including one or more thresholds for one of the multiple computed restitution slopes. Each of the multiple restitution slopes is compared to its sub target range. In one embodiment of step or the computed restitution slopes are within the specified target range when each of the multiple restitution slopes is within its sub target range. In another embodiment of step or the computed restitution slopes are each compared to its sub target range and whether the computed restitution slopes are within the specified target range is determined by using a weighted sum of results of the comparisons.

In an example as illustrated in the restitution parameter is monitored for specified ranges RANGES 1 . . . N of the cardiac interval. In one embodiment restitution parameter measurement circuit measures the restitution parameter for each of the specified range 1 to N of the cardiac interval when the patient s cardiac interval falls into that specified range. The measured values including baseline values measured on day 1 and subsequent values measured after day 1 as illustrated in as well as the associated values of the stimulation parameters at the time of measurement are stored in control circuit . In one embodiment restitution parameter measurement circuit measures and stores the baseline and or subsequent values of the restitution parameter during the performance of methods or . In various embodiments stimulation controller uses the stored values of the restitution parameter to control the delivery of the neurostimulation. In one embodiment stimulation adjuster adjusts the delivery of the neurostimulation for a specified target value or value range of the restitution parameter. For example for a specified range of the cardiac interval if the restitution parameter has an undesirable value or changes in an undesirable direction when the neurostimulation is not being delivered stimulation adjuster starts the delivery of the neurostimulation. In another example if the restitution parameter changes in a desirable direction but does not reach a desirable target value or value range when the neurostimulation is being delivered stimulation adjuster adjusts the stimulation parameters to change the intensity of the neurostimulation. In another embodiment stimulation controller adjusts the delivery of the neurostimulation in conjunction with the restitution analysis. For example stimulation controller performs steps of method or of method by adjusting the stimulation parameters for a specified target value or value range of the measured restitution parameter that correspond to the specified restitution slope. The stored values of the restitution parameter each associated with a value or value range of the cardiac interval and values of stimulation parameters provide for mapping of the stimulation parameters to a desirable value or value range of the restitution parameter. In one embodiment stimulation adjustor adjusts the stimulation parameters using this mapping. In various embodiments examples of the stimulation parameters adjusted by stimulation adjuster using the measured values of the restitution parameter include pulse amplitude pulse width pulse frequency or inter pulse interval duty cycle waveform e.g. monophasic or biphasic polarity ramping rate of increase or decrease in the amplitude and stimulation duration e.g. daily dose or periodic dose specified as duration of therapy session .

At the restitution parameter is measured for a specified range of the patient s cardiac interval. In one embodiment the restitution parameter is measured when the patient s intrinsic cardiac interval falls into the specified range. In another embodiment the restitution parameter is measured when the patient s cardiac interval falls into the specified range in response to cardiac pacing or neurostimulation. At the measured value of the restitution parameter is stored together with values of the stimulation parameters at the time of the measurement for the specified range of the patient s cardiac interval. Steps and are repeated until all the specified ranges of the cardiac interval are covered at . This results in a set of values and or value ranges of the restitution parameter the cardiac interval and the stimulation parameters that allow for mapping of stimulation parameters to the restitution parameter for each specified range of the cardiac interval. At the neurostimulation is adjusted using the stored set of values and or value ranges of the restitution parameter the cardiac interval and the stimulation parameters. In various embodiments delivery of the neurostimulation is stalled stopped or maintained and or one or more of the stimulation parameters are adjusted at . Examples of the stimulation parameters being adjusted include pulse amplitude pulse width pulse frequency or inter pulse interval duty cycle waveform e.g. monophasic or biphasic polarity ramping rate of increase or decrease in the amplitude and stimulation duration e.g. daily dose or periodic dose specified as duration of therapy session .

The process of measurement storage and adjustment including steps and repeats while the patient is being treated with the neurostimulation. At if it is time for subsequent measurement according to a specified schedule or in response to a specified type event steps and are repeated.

It is to be understood that the above detailed description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

