---

title: Automatic optimal positioning of spectrophotometer while measuring moving media
abstract: A system and method for computer automated optimal lateral alignment of a spectrophotometer over a region of consistent color on a moving media or web for maintaining consistent color and or tonal qualities of a color application production process. The system consisting of a computer operated lateral traverse mechanism affixed to the press or color application equipment that is able to move the sensor laterally in small increments across the band of the color patches on the moving web or media, marking the lateral position each time it makes a light measurement, and therefrom calculating the optimal lateral alignment or position of the sensor for maintaining consistent color or density control during the color application process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09046356&OS=09046356&RS=09046356
owner: Techkon USA LLC
number: 09046356
owner_city: Danvers
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121009
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 545 337 filed Oct. 10 2011 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention relates to the positioning of spectrophotometers for measuring reflected light and or brightness of moving media for maintaining consistent color hue and density in production color applications operations and more particularly to a method and apparatus for automated lateral alignment of a sensor head for optimal positioning over a known region of consistent color on the media surface.

Spectrophotometers measure reflected light intensity at selected wavelengths. They are widely used in graphic arts and similar applications to ensure uniform color hue and density of printed material paints dyed fabric and other applications where ink paint dye or other coloring material is applied to paper plastic fabric walls or other surfaces or materials. Standardized measurement of light reflectance at different wavelengths allows printing pressmen and other equipment operators to adjust a printing press color copier or other colorant application device or system so as to obtain uniform consistent color hue and density of applied colorant material. In some systems the measurements of light reflectance are used to adjust printing and other color application systems semi automatically or automatically.

To assist in making standardized measurements printed material typically has color regions of different hues to act as reference color samples. Typically these are printed in the material margins. Color printing device or printing press may print color sheets that contain color patches or stripes. The color regions can be measured by a spectrophotometer or other device for color hue and density measurement. Numerous spectrophotometers and systems exist for measuring reflected light color and brightness from these patches or from other parts of the printed material. However existing spectrophotometers and systems have limitations.

Hand held single measurement spectrophotometers exist that are accurate easy to use and relatively inexpensive. However they only make a single measurement at a time and typically a printed color sheet of paper must be removed from a sheet fed press or the printing press stopped for a web fed press to make measurements. After the operator makes a change to the printing press to optimize color hue and density the press may need to be re started and another measurement made to determine if the printed output is now acceptable. This is a tedious and time consuming process which leads to higher costs for printing companies.

Spectrophotometer scanners exist with an additional look ahead sensor or sensor array that aligns the spectrophotometer with color patches. These sensors add cost and complexity to the system because of the added sensor and its support hardware and possibly software . The look ahead sensor must be carefully aligned with the spectrophotometer both mechanically and in time to ensure that spectrophotometer alignment tracks sensor alignment and periodically checked to ensure that alignment remains valid. Again this adds cost to the printing process for printing companies.

Spectrophotometer scanners further exist that move the measuring device in two axes facilitating the measurement of stationary samples. These devices are more complex and they solve the more complex case of a target that may be angularly misaligned with the scanner. In solving that the system must make multiple scans across the length of the measured sample and compute a best multi axis trajectory for future sample measurements. If the media is moving the measured artifacts typically remain aligned with the direction of motion so motion across the media is not necessary and all steps required to estimate angular error are not providing additional value.

In line spectrophotometer systems also exist that use a video camera as a sensor to align the in line spectrophotometer with the color regions so as to measure the color regions printed on the sheet. In some cases these systems automatically adjust the printing press or other device to optimize color hue and density. Again these systems are complex very expensive and typically require periodic maintenance and calibration for continued proper function.

Automated systems exist that use a color video camera to take a real time picture of the printed material including color patches to determine printed color hue and density. In some cases these systems automatically adjust the printing press or other device to optimize color hue and density. However these systems are complex very expensive and typically require periodic maintenance and calibration for continued proper function. They are also limited by the performance of the color video camera and its illumination system for consistent and uniform color measurement.

A semi automated spectrophotometer can be mounted on a printing press and that measures color patch hue and density in real time as printed material passes underneath the spectrophotometer. The system uses proprietary pattern recognition software to detect the patches passing longitudinally under the spectrophotometer and automatically detects and measures each color patch as it goes by. However the lateral position of the spectrophotometer must be adjusted to align with the position of the color patches on the printed material. This can be very difficult for smaller patch sizes.

What is needed is a system and method that improves the performance of spectrophotometer devices for real time measurement of color hue and density by automating the process of laterally centering the spectrophotometer over the reference color regions in the measurement system.

Embodiments of the invention include a method for computer automated optimal lateral alignment of a spectrophotometer over calibration regions on printed materials of a moving web press for maintaining consistent qualities of a color application process comprising the steps of moving a traverse arm in an initial first direction reporting with the spectrophotometer representative spectral data from specific regions of interest converting spectral data to at least one metric storing with position data the at least one metric moving the traverse arm in a direction opposite the first direction by 1 N width of the patch applying mathematic interpolation to convert 2N 1 values for the metric and the position to 20N 1 metric values that are equally spaced across a range of the measured positions finding an attribute of the metric and corresponding the position moving the traverse arm to the position of the attribute of the metric. Another embodiment comprises manually adjusting the spectrophotometer on a lateral traverse system to be approximately over the regions in a margin of the printed materials. A further embodiment comprises at a system start up a controller commanding the traverse arm to scan the spectrophotometer laterally across an entire width of the web press until the region is located at a point of maximum metric and positioning the spectrophotometer at the location. Other embodiments comprise a control algorithm operating on a host or on the spectrophotometer. In continuing embodiments N 5. Yet other embodiments provide that the attribute comprises a center of the region of interest determined by finding a peak metric value in the interpolated data set. In ongoing embodiments the attribute comprises a center of the region of interest determined by finding a center point between two shoulders in the interpolated data set. Subsequent embodiments include that an initial position is estimated by a predicted position of a location of a region in a printed image.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a computer operated system for automated alignment of a spectrophotometer over a region of consistent color on printed materials on a moving web in a color application process comprising a lateral traverse system configured to move the spectrophotometer laterally across the moving web a computer configured to command movements by the lateral traverse system of the spectrophotometer over the moving web while scanning and to correlate scanned light measurements with a respective lateral position at a time of the measurement and an algorithm configured to use the light measurements and the lateral position information to calculate an optimal position for the spectrophotometer. Embodiments provide that the region comprises a segmented band of color or monochrome forming patches and the region comprises a continuous band of color or monochrome forming a stripe. In other embodiments communication between the spectrophotometer and the traverse system comprises an RS485 cable and communication between the spectrophotometer and the computer comprises a CAT5 cable. Continuing embodiments include that the algorithm comprises a spline algorithm and that the algorithm comprises a piecewise linear interpolation algorithm. For further embodiments the algorithm executes on the spectrophotometer and the algorithm executes on the computer. In another embodiment the alignment is repeated at intervals corresponding to variability of location of the regions.

Yet another embodiment of the invention includes a method for automatic lateral self alignment of a spectrophotometer over a color patch on a medium on a web press comprising the steps of receiving at the spectrophotometer a self align command the spectrophotometer consequently sending a command to a traverse arm whereby the spectrophotometer moves a distance of a width of the color patch laterally in a first direction at at least about 300 mm second requesting by the spectrophotometer a current lateral position of the traverse arm storing the position as a digital value turning on by the spectrophotometer a lamp of the spectrophotometer starting a lamp timer waiting for the lamp to warm up turning on by the spectrophotometer light reflectance data acquisition taking by the spectrophotometer a series of discrete measurements each of a duration equivalent to a time it takes a single page of the color patches to pass under the spectrophotometer after each measurement finishes the spectral data is converted to a list of density values searching the list for a maximum density storing the density values with current the position of the traverse arm if eleven density values have been stored the spectrophotometer moves the traverse arm laterally in a direction opposite the first direction at at least about 300 mm s by about a width of the patch repeating the measurements until a total of eleven measurements have been taken each associated with a traverse arm position precision of about 0.1 mm turning off the light reflectance data acquisition turning off the lamp interpolating the data using a cubic spline algorithm to generate data of higher precision searching the data points for a maximum density value and a position associated with the maximum value and designating the position a best lateral position for the spectrophotometer associating the best lateral position with a center position of multiple adjacent points if the multiple adjacent points have about a same maximum density value sending by the spectrophotometer the traverse arm a command to move to the best lateral position at a speed of greater than about 300 mm s whereby the spectrophotometer is laterally positioned such that its aperture is optimally aligned with the color patches repeating the self alignment process about every 10 minutes so as to maintain alignment of the spectrophotometer with the color patches.

The features and advantages described herein are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been selected principally for readability and instructional purposes and not to limit in any way the scope of the inventive subject matter. The invention is susceptible of many embodiments. What follows is illustrative but not exhaustive of the scope of the invention.

This invention improves the performance of spectrophotometer devices for real time measurement of color hue and density by automating the process of laterally centering the spectrophotometer over the reference color regions in the measurement system. An economic advantage of this new technique over other systems is that it does not require the addition of costly hardware such as a digital camera or other vision system to locate the color regions and center the spectrometer over them.

Embodiments comprise controller based automatic adjustment of the lateral position of a spectrophotometer or other optical measurement system so as to automatically optimize in real time the position of the measurement system over a series of color regions on printed or reproduced material. This series of color regions comprise specific regions of interest. Other specific regions of interest comprise color patches bars and bands of density patches.

Embodiments ensure that the Y coordinate is appropriate so that similar measured regions are used in the computation. A simple case would be a striped pattern such as gravure wallpaper. Since that pattern is continuous in the Y web travel dimension measurements at any Y position would be appropriate for use by embodiments of the algorithm. An example of segmented patterns is color bars with image surround. Applications require identification of the appropriate color bar for measurement. Furthermore improved results can be obtained when the same region within the color bar is measured by the algorithm. Some spectrophotometers such as the ES5000 scan in the Y axis producing thousands of measured samples and then use a variety of techniques to locate regions of interest within the scanned dataset. In some embodiments those regions are located based on patterns of color within the data. Alternately external signal lines are monitored to identify the Y position of measured samples which is in turn used to report only data within selected regions. Finally a combination of both can be used to further improve Y position accuracy when the external signals are approximate. Other spectrophotometers may provide instantaneous snap shot measurements that are triggered by external signals to assure that the appropriate Y position is measured. Other methods may be used as long as the measured data has a Y position that provides data that is representative of the region to be aligned. As mentioned earlier a region that is a continuous stripe allows any Y position to be used.

Operation of embodiments comprises a spectrophotometer system such as the Techkon SpectroEdge ES5000 mounted on a printing press or other reproduction system so that the printed or reproduced material passes under the spectrophotometer at a distance such as 3 0.5 mm. In addition to its optics light source color filters and light sensors embodiments of the spectrophotometer contain an application programming interface API which allows it to be controlled by a control subsystem such as a personal computer. The spectrophotometer is mounted on a lateral traverse that allows it to travel across the width of the printed material. In embodiments the position of the spectrophotometer on the traverse mechanism is adjusted using a motorized lead screw linear motor hydraulic or pneumatic actuator or other positioning device under the control of the control subsystem.

While the printing press is stopped in embodiments the user performs a manual rough alignment of the spectrophotometer such that its aperture is aimed approximately over the reference color regions at the center of a color region in the margin of the printed material. In embodiments about half of a region width is considered approximate. This involves using a slider control in the software user interface running on a PC e.g. laptop to move the instrument horizontally across the press s print media and eye balling the position of the instrument relative to a column of color regions printed along the edge of the printed sheet.

In embodiments the initialization process at system start up comprises the controller commanding the traverse assembly to scan laterally across the entire width of the press until it finds the color regions locates the point of maximum spectrophotometer signal and positions the spectrophotometer at that location. This is an alternate method when no X estimate has been provided.

In other embodiments a press operator has knowledge of the image currently being printed a predicted position. Within that image the color bar for example might be 100 mm from the right edge of the web. The press currently has a paper web located 200 mm off the right edge of the press rollers. The edge of the press roller corresponds to the transport arm zero location. In this case the press operator moves the transport arm to 300 mm and begins the optimization algorithm. This differs from the eyeball approach and the scan the entire press width approach. Here the operator has a reasonably good idea of where the color bar should be found but there is some uncertainty which the algorithm resolves so that the spectrophotometer is ideally positioned.

Next the printing press or other color imprinting system is turned on and the printing process begun with the print media traveling at any speed in the range of 500 to 5 000 mm sec and beyond. As an example a gravure press may run at 16 000 mm sec. Once up to print speed typical press speed fluctuation has no adverse effect on this method . Once the press is running the user sends a self align command to the instrument via the software user interface to the spectrophotometer system to automatically optimize its lateral position. The spectrophotometer system commands the lateral traverse system to move the spectrophotometer an initial small distance such as 5 mm in a first direction so that it is no longer centered over the color regions.

The spectrophotometer control subsystem commands the lateral traverse system to move the spectrophotometer at a controlled rate across the color regions so that the spectrophotometer scans across the color regions as they are moving. The spectrophotometer makes measurements of reflected light during the traverse and records the position of the traverse assembly at each measured location. On completion of the scan the spectrophotometer uses an algorithm to best position the lateral traverse system to cause the spectrophotometer to measure in the center of the color region. The spectrophotometer system communicates to the lateral traverse system to move the read head to the best position which completes the self alignment process.

The controller then in embodiments commands the system at a time interval selected by the operator or in response to other manual or automated recalibration queues to continually repeat the process of optimizing the lateral position of the spectrophotometer. Thus if the position of the color regions varies as can happen during the printing process the control system will re establish the spectrophotometer position for optimum performance.

The spectrophotometer requests the current lateral position of the traverse arm and stores it as a digital value such as traverseStart mm .

The spectrophotometer takes a series of discrete measurements each of a duration equivalent to the time it takes a single form or page of the printed regions to pass under the spectrophotometer. In embodiments representative spectral data is spectral data that represents the specific region of interest.

After each measurement finishes the spectral data is converted to a list of appropriate metric values depending on the print media color and the ink color s . For saturated inks such as cyan magenta yellow and black an appropriate metric could is density in embodiments. For reflective ink such as white on a black or metallic substrate then lightness is appropriate in embodiments. For embodiments the list is searched for a maximum and is stored along with the current position of the traverse arm . In some embodiments maintaining consistent qualities of a color application process comprise color qualities or tonal qualities or both color qualities and tonal qualities.

The spectrophotometer moves the traverse arm laterally for example to the left quickly 300 mm s by a small distance such as of a region width . For embodiments the general form is that the movement is 1 N region widths. In this embodiment N 5. For embodiments five produces surprisingly good results. This sequence of taking a measurement and moving the traverse arm by a small distance repeats until a total of 2N 1 measurements have been taken each associated with a precise traverse arm position precision 

At this point using N 5 the spectrophotometer has 11 data points each representing a pair of position metric values. These data points are interpolated using an interpolation algorithm such as a cubic spline to generate data with higher X dimension resolution .

A shoulder threshold is defined as some percentage of the maximum which is less than 100 such as 75 . In embodiments the metric will have dropped by 25 as the aperture moves off the region and starts to also measure some of the area outside the region.

The data points are searched in order of position value starting from the position of maximum metric and decreasing until the metric value drops below the shoulder threshold. This position represents the left shoulder . The data points are searched in order of position value starting from the position of maximum metric and increasing until the metric value drops below the shoulder threshold. This position represents the right shoulder .

The position value that is midway between the left shoulder and right shoulder positions is considered the best lateral optimal position of the spectrophotometer bestPos mm .

If after trying to detect the left and right shoulders only one shoulder is found an edge detection algorithm is applied to accurately associate the one shoulder position with the actual edge of the printed region. Then knowing the width of the region the second shoulder position is calculated. With both shoulder positions calculated the midway position is determined and associated with bestPos mm . In embodiments this condition may occur if the original position was at the far edge of a patch or possibly even slightly off the patch.

The spectrophotometer then sends the traverse arm a command to move to position bestPos mm quickly 300 mm s ending the sequence .

For embodiments the spectrophotometer measures metrics that characterize visual attributes of the patch. A nonlimiting example of a metric is density. Under particular conditions optical Density is used. Optical density or sometimes referred to simply as Density relates to the absorbance of the ink or paint applied to a surface. Density is computed according to the formula Density log Reflectance where reflectance is on the range 0 1 . In other conditions L or Y are used to find a white stripe on a black surround. L and Y are metrics that increase with increasing Reflectance so are appropriate for finding a maxima within the region when the region is of higher Reflectance than the surround. Such conditions include putting a white opacifying stripe on a silver Mylar film prior to printing on it. The silver measures as black and the stripe measures as white.

Embodiments comprise a determine region of interest step. In embodiments all measured regions are of interest. For example when looking for maxima when all surrounding regions that are well below that maxima.

As mentioned for embodiments N has a value of 5. For tested embodiments N 5 provided good results. In embodiments lower values for N can be used to increase speed as the process would require fewer discrete measurements and higher values can provide better accuracy because more measurements depend less on interpolation to achieve high resolution data along the X axis.

For embodiments step shows the traverse arm being moved 1 patch width in the first direction. If the initial alignment to the patch has significant uncertainty as multiple patch widths the traverse arm may be moved some multiple of patch widths so that the algorithm is more likely to find the patch edges. To accommodate this the number of steps will have to be increased so that the entire patch will be measured in the process.

Tests were run using prototype equipment results are shown in Tables 1 10. The prototype employed a drum with a circumference of 635 mm which for this test is equivalent to page length . For printed color patches an image of a food product package was used which contains a series of color bars each containing 13 patches 5 mm wide 10 mm high . For each trial in the test the drum was run at different speeds starting at 500 mm s for trial 1 and ending at 5 000 mm s for trial 10. Within each trial the traverse arm was set to a series of different start positions and then the spectrophotometer was sent the auto align command. The end pos column shows the result of each auto alignment. The results remained consistent 0.1 mm over the various drum speeds and start positions.

In embodiments alignment comprises storing the two half max point locations and the slope of the shoulders from the original scan. Re alignment measures those two points again and if an imbalance is found it estimates the movement necessary to remove the error.

For embodiments after the cubic spline step if the maximum occurs off to one side of the center of patch due to lack of uniformity . Positioning is based on the shoulders . Given that the underlying profile is trapezoidal the center of patch is determined from the center of the two half of maximum points.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. Each and every page of this submission and all contents thereon however characterized identified or numbered is considered a substantive part of this application for all purposes irrespective of form or placement within the application. This specification is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of this disclosure. Other and various embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from this description figures and the claims that follow. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

