---

title: Method and apparatus for location-based authorization to access online user groups
abstract: An approach is provided for determining a request from a user for an access to at least one user group. The at least one user group is associated with at least one reference location. Consequently, the point of interest platform determines location information associated with the user and/or the device associated with the user. Subsequently, the point of interest platform causes, at least in part, a granting of the access to the user group if the location information indicates that the user and/or the device associated with the user is within a predetermined proximity of the reference location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09197618&OS=09197618&RS=09197618
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09197618
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20121231
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. With the expanding use of mobile devices consumers demand to have valuable services delivered to these devices has increased. By way of example many mobile devices are now equipped with global positioning system GPS receivers and mapping and or navigation applications for presenting location based information. One area of interest has been the development of location based services to provide authorization methods based on mobile unit locations to access online user groups. Such location based authorizations can be extremely effective especially in a de centralized environment wherein the members of online user groups change their locations on a frequent basis which undermines the ability of the online user groups to restrict access only to the active members because it gives prevalence to the difficulty of tracking their membership status. Unfortunately device application and or service providers have no convenient means of providing location information to access online user groups. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges in providing a location based service that contemporaneously considers a user s location information to optimize results for authentication during a sign up process for accessing online user groups.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining a request from at least one user for an access to at least one user group wherein the at least one user group is associated with at least one reference location. The method also comprises determining location information associated with the at least one user at least one device associated with the at least one user or a combination thereof. The method further comprises causing at least in part a granting of the access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine a request from at least one user for an access to at least one user group wherein the at least one user group is associated with at least one reference location. The apparatus is also caused to determine location information associated with the at least one user at least one device associated with the at least one user or a combination thereof. The apparatus further causes at least in part a granting of the access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a request from at least one user for an access to at least one user group wherein the at least one user group is associated with at least one reference location. The apparatus is also caused to determine location information associated with the at least one user at least one device associated with the at least one user or a combination thereof. The apparatus further causes at least in part a granting of the access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining a request from at least one user for an access to at least one user group wherein the at least one user group is associated with at least one reference location. The apparatus also comprises means for determining location information associated with the at least one user at least one device associated with the at least one user or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a granting of the access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to determine location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and cause at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. By way of example there are numerous semi private online groups which are open for qualified members. These online groups may be based on membership of some real world facility and may want to limit the membership to the real world participants. This can be very challenging in a de centralized environment where there are no authoritative way to validate the membership. Further it may be desirable to only keep the active members as part of the online group. Therefore proving that users are active could be quite difficult and may take a lot of manual effort. In one scenario if a user group is for the students at a school one may want to ensure that only current students are part of the group and constantly updating the group membership and removing former students can be a large administrative burden. In one embodiment the system determines a request from one or more applications for access to user groups based on location information associated with at least one device. In one example use case a user may be located afar from the reference location and may want to use his or her mobile device e.g. a UE to access a user group. The system may process and or facilitate a processing of the location information associated with the one or more devices to cause a grant of access if the location information indicates that the user is within a predetermined proximity of the reference location. In one scenario if the user is not within the predetermined proximity of the reference location within a specific period of time the point of interest platform may optionally cause a revocation of the access.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE collectively referred to as UE that may include or be associated with applications collectively referred to as applications and sensors collectively referred to as sensors . In one embodiment the UEs have connectivity to a point of interest platform via the communication network .

By way of example the UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the applications may be any type of application that is executable at the UE such as mapping applications location based service applications navigation applications and or any other applications that may use POI information including general applications such as media player applications social networking applications calendar applications content provisioning services and the like. As another example when the application is a mapping application it can generate routes travel destinations or maps based on user inputs. Under this scenario in addition to generating location information travel time etc. the mapping application may provide the duration the at least one user and or the at least one device is within the predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. It is noted in this example that the profile information enables the mapping application to influence locations and geo routines by selecting those locations and geo routines which are found to have attributes aligned with the user s request. In one embodiment one of the applications at the UE may act as a client for point of interest platform and perform one or more functions associated with the functions of the point of interest platform .

By way of example the sensors may be any type of sensor. In certain embodiments the sensors may include for example a camera imaging sensor for gathering image data an audio recorder for gathering audio data a global positioning sensor for gathering location data a position sensor or gyroscope for detecting device orientation and or tilt a network detection sensor for detecting wireless signals or network data temporal information and the like. This information is provided to the point of interest platform for processing to determine contextual information associated with UE . In certain embodiments the contextual information may be used in connection with information associated with POIs.

The communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the point of interest platform may be a platform with multiple interconnected components. The point of interest platform may include multiple servers intelligent networking devices computing devices components and corresponding software for performing the function of providing access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. In addition it is noted that the point of interest platform may be a separate entity of the system a part of the one or more services of the service platform or included within the UE e.g. as part of the application .

In one embodiment the point of interest platform performs one or more functions associated with determining a request from a user for an access to a user group. Such request may be approved by the point of interest platform upon a determination that the location information associated with the user and or the device associated with the user is associated with the reference location. As indicated in the above scenario a user may want to access a user group. When the user opens the application his location is known to the server. The user then enters any known information for the online group in his mobile communication device e.g. UE the mobile communication device then sends a request to the point of interest platform for access to the user group. The point of interest platform then communicates with the geographic database the services platform and the content provider for relevant location information. The point of interest platform may determine one reference location associated with the user group and may process and or facilitate a processing of the device to determine location information associated with the device. Then the point of interest platform causes a comparison of the two location information and may grant access if the location information is within the predetermined proximity of the reference location. In one scenario the point of interest platform may determine that one or more location information corresponding to a user s movement history which may include a portion of King s Street in Alexandria for example. The point of interest platform can then compare the one or more location information including King s Street against one or more referenced location to determine access to the one or more user group services one or more service suggestions e.g. reference location information or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the point of interest platform may monitor the one or more location information continuously periodically according to a schedule on demand or a combination thereof. For example if the sensor is always on the point of interest platform may monitor and determine the location information in substantially real time. Consequently the application for example may have immediate access to the user s recent movement history to generate the one or more location information. Accordingly the point of interest platform may determine to grant access to the user based at least in part on such monitoring.

In one embodiment the point of interest platform determines the duration for a user and or a device associated with the user within the predetermined proximity of the reference location. The point of interest platform granting access to a user group is further based at least in part on the duration. In one scenario user Z may want to access an online user group such user group may have a requirement that a user should be within the vicinity for X amount of time to access the group if user Z tries to access the group as soon as he reaches the reference location he might be prompted that he should try logging in after X amount of time since there may be a requirement of the length of duration in a single visit. In one scenario such requirement may not be imposed on users who have visited the referenced location multiple times and the users may be granted with access to the at least one user groups based at least in part on the frequency of their visit.

In one embodiment the point of interest platform may include or have access to a geographic database to access or store any kind of data associated with POI such as historical user information location proximity information temporal proximity information contextual proximity information etc. Data stored in the geographic database may for instance be provided by the UEs a service platform one or more services or services or one or more content providers or content providers . In one embodiment the geographic database may include an index of various locations. The index is able to be queried by the point of interest platform based on a provided input such as from interacting with application via the UE . The one or more attributes associated with the location is then maintained by the index.

The services platform may include any type of service. By way of example the services platform may include mapping services navigation services social networking services content e.g. text images etc. provisioning services application services storage services contextual information determination services location based services information e.g. weather news etc. based services etc. In one embodiment the services platform may interact with the UE the point of interest platform and the content providers to supplement or aid in the processing of the content information.

By way of example services may be an online service that reflects interests and or activities of users. In one scenario the services provide representations of each user e.g. a profile his her social links and a variety of additional information. The services may optionally allow users to share location information activities information contextual information historical user information and interests within their individual networks and provides for data portability. The services may additionally assist in providing the point of interest platform with occurrence information of the one or more location information for POIs.

The content providers may provide content to the UE the point of interest platform and the services of the services platform . The content provided may be any type of content such as textual content image content etc. In one embodiment the content providers may provide content that may supplement content of the applications the sensors or a combination thereof. By way of example the content providers may provide content that may aid in the processing of the location information associated with POIs to determine authentication to a service parameter. In one embodiment the content providers may also store content associated with the UE the point of interest platform and the services of the services platform . In one embodiment the content providers may manage access to a central repository of data and offer a consistent standard interface to data such as a repository of users navigational data content. In another embodiment the content provider act as hosts of one or more websites social networking services blogs advertising materials review information data feeds or sources of other information and or documents. By way of example the information and or published documents provided by the content providers may feature data which may include frequency of visit to POIs timely verification information with the service providers default information if any associated with POI.

By way of example the UE the point of interest platform the services platform and the content providers communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and UE for interaction with the point of interest platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the point of interest platform for accessing one user group. The subscription process may include for example establishing one or more services the user is affiliated with as well as their respective access credential information. Subscription may also entail selection of an opt in option wherein users of the point of interest platform permits sharing of their context information e.g. location information position information and temporal information as collected via one or more sensors of UE and or geographic database and or services . Preferences and settings information may be referenced to a specific user user device or combination thereof and maintained in the geographic database . It is further noted in certain embodiments that the subscription process may be coordinated with a subscription process of a given services accessed by a user.

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from the user device or other device via a graphical user interface to the point of interest platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Profile data pursuant to registration may be cross referenced as part of the login process. Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

The authentication module may also be alerted of an input received via the user interface for indicating a user requested action. It is noted that the user interface module supports presentment of the user interface element for presenting such images while the authentication module interprets input provided to the user as they engage the point of interest platform . The authentication module is therefore configured to receive requests for generation of a map image via the service or application.

In one embodiment the analyzer module processes and or facilitates a processing of the one or more location information associated with a mobile device to determine access to user groups one or more service suggestions e.g. a POI or a combination thereof. By way of example the analyzer module may determine granting access to user groups based at least in part on the reference location contained in the location database . The analyzer module may also be used to cause at least in part a comparison of the one or more location information against one or more referenced location traces wherein the one or more user groups the one or more service suggestions or a combination thereof are associated with the one or more referenced location.

In one embodiment the profiler module processes the one or more user devices to determine profile information associated with the at least one user the at least one device or a combination thereof. This is done for example in response to a request by a calling application and or service. By way of example the profiler module cross references the point of interest platform to determine if at least one of the terms matches that indicated in a user profile. Further the profiler module may operate in connection with the authentication module to enable updating of the profile information. As such an application service or other executable process of the UE may reference the profiler module for carrying out various tasks.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of at least one option to generate the request in a user interface of the at least one client application. By way of example the user interface module generates the user interface element in response to detection of an input for selection of one user group. Of note the user interface module triggers execution of the various other modules including the authentication module in response to user input. The user interface module employs various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the application of UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives such as menus buttons data entry fields etc. for generating the user interface elements. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the browser application or web portal application of the user devices thus enabling the display of graphics primitives.

In one embodiment the context information processing module receives context information as gathered by the sensors of respective UE and or geographic database and or services . Once received the context information processing module analyzes the context information to determine the relative location time position and other information useful for generating information associated with a specified location. Based on this determination the context information processing module triggers execution of the communication module .

The reference module in certain embodiments is used to cause at least in part a referencing of the one or more location the one or more user groups the one or more service suggestions or a combination thereof on the one or more devices e.g. the UEs a server e.g. the point of interest platform or a combination thereof. By way of example the reference module may reference or map the one or more location to corresponding one or more user groups one or more service suggestion e.g. a POI or a combination thereof in the location database e.g. ABC group is referenced to POI 145 .

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a communication network between the point of interest platform and the services . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s UE and the point of interest platform over the communication network .

The presentation module makes a presentation of the at least one client application the user group is associated with upon receiving the data from communication module . The presentation module may utilize the geographic database and or services to determine whether the information for POI is up to date. This module obtains a set of summary statistics from other modules. Then the module continues with generating a presentation corresponding to the POI. Then continues with providing of presentation data set where the presentation could be depicted in one or more visual display units.

The above presented modules and components of the point of interest platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the point of interest platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE . As such the point of interest platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UEs as a point of interest platform or combination thereof. Still further the point of interest platform may be integrated for direct operation with services such as in the form of a widget or applet in accordance with an information and or subscriber sharing arrangement. The various executions presented herein contemplate any and all arrangements and models.

In step the point of interest platform determines a request from at least one user for an access to at least one user group wherein the at least one user group is associated with at least one reference location.

In step the point of interest platform determines location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user. In one scenario there may be a semi private group for parents at a specific school the parents may have no authoritative way to validate that someone really is a parent because they may not have access to any school wide student list. Further it may be desirable to keep only active members as part of the online group. However proving that users are active could be difficult for instance in order to ensure that only parents of current students are part of the group it is a pre requisite to constantly update the group membership and remove the parents of former students. Henceforth when a user sends a request to the point of interest platform to access the parent group the point of interest platform determines a request to access the user group and then retrieves the location information of the UE information to match it with the reference location.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a granting of the access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. Further the one user group is associated with at least one client application which causes at least in part a presentation of at least one option to generate the request in a user interface of the at least one client application. In the above scenario when a user sends a request to the point of interest platform to access the parent group the point of interest platform may grant the user with access to the parent group if the location information of the UE indicates that the user is within a predetermined proximity of the reference location. For instance if the reference location is 123 XYZ Street the location information of the device associated with the user should either be 123 XYZ Street or within the predetermined proximity of 123 XYZ street . In another scenario the user may be presented with an option to generate a request in the user interface of the client application associated with the user group. For instance user A uses a gym which has a private group initially A would need to send a request to join the gym s social group from his mobile device while he was located at the gym. The private group may have an application that could be enhanced to have a Authorize my group membership function this function may send the location of the mobile device to the point of interest platform and may assist in validating that the user is within a predetermined radius of the group s location. If the user is within this distance it would serve as an authorization that he really belongs to the gym.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a monitoring of the location information continuously periodically according to a schedule on demand or a combination thereof. Subsequently the point of interest platform causes an update of the location information for one or more mobile devices based at least in part on the monitoring.

In step the point of interest platform determines to maintain the access for the at least one user based at least in part on the monitoring. The monitoring of the location information comprises causing at least in part a transmission of at least one notification to the at least one user and or the at least one device continuously periodically according to a schedule on demand or a combination thereof wherein the at least notification requests at least in part a re verification of the location information. Further the re verification includes at least in part a revisiting of a location within the predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. In one scenario there can be an enablement of periodic re authorization of user membership wherein users could be asked to submit their location every X days weeks months in order to maintain their group membership. This is particularly useful for groups where the eligible membership changes frequently and the online group administrator desires to keep the group membership limited to only currently eligible users. In one embodiment the point of interest platform may cause an expiration of the one or more membership for the accessed user groups based at least in part on the monitoring.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a transmission of at least one notification to the at least one user the at least one device or a combination thereof continuously periodically according to a schedule on demand or a combination thereof wherein the at least notification requests at least in part a re verification of the location information. A re verification of the location information may include at least in part revisiting of a location within the predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. In one embodiment the point of interest platform may process and send notifications to the current users as per schedule and or on demand that they need to re verify their location in order to maintain their active status. The users may visit the reference location and then access the user groups.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a monitoring of the location information continuously periodically according to a schedule on demand or a combination thereof. Then the point of interest platform causes an update of the location information for the one or more mobile devices based at least in part on the monitoring.

In step the point of interest platform determines whether the at least one user and or the at least one device associated with the at least one user is within the predetermined proximity based at least in part on the monitoring. In one scenario the point of interest platform may grant access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user and or the at least one device associated with the at least one user is within the predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location.

In step the point of interest platform determines one or more authentication credentials associated with the at least one user wherein the granting of the access is further based at least in part on the one or more authentication credentials. In one scenario the point of interest platform determines a user by authenticating user credentials associated with the request. The one or more authentication credentials include at least in part a username a password a user certificate a token a web cookie or a combination thereof.

In step the point of interest platform determines a duration that the at least one user the at least one device or a combination thereof is within the predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location wherein the granting of the access is further based at least in part on the duration. In one scenario the point of interest platform processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one device to determine the time period spent in the reference location wherein the determined time period may be compared with the specified time period if any.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part an initiation of the request based at least in part determining that the user has requested a resource associated with the at least one user group wherein the resource includes at least in part a website. In one scenario the point of interest platform causes an initiation of validation process for access to the one or more online user groups in response to the request. The user needs to validate their request by being on the reference location. If the user is not within the predetermined proximity of the referenced location then he needs to travel to the referenced location of the user group. The location information is then sent to the website if it is determined that a user is within the proximity of the referenced location the user is granted access to the group.

In step the point of interest platform causes at least in part a revocation of the access if the location information is not within the predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. In one scenario the referenced location for the user group may be 345 ACX street in order to get access to the user group the user must authenticate that he is within the predetermined proximity of 345 ACX street if not his request to access the user group may be refused as he will be deemed a non member. Then again this step may be optional as a user may still maintain access to the at least one user group depending on the specific settings of the user group.

The processes described herein for determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display and one or more camera sensors for capturing recording and causing to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings. In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device may be omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to determine location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of determining location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to determine location information associated with the at least one user and or at least one device associated with the at least one user and causing at least in part a granting of access to the at least one user group if the location information indicates that the at least one user is within a predetermined proximity of the at least one reference location. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Further one or more camera sensors may be incorporated onto the mobile station wherein the one or more camera sensors may be placed at one or more locations on the mobile station. Generally the camera sensors may be utilized to capture record and cause to store one or more still and or moving images e.g. videos movies etc. which also may comprise audio recordings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

