---

title: Systems and methods for identifying sets of similar products
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for determining sets of products which are similar to each other in terms of consumers' wants and needs. Queries are performed on a particular product. Documents relating to the query are received and stored. A dictionary is created from the received documents, whereby the documents, which are text files, are scrubbed of certain data to create a scrubbed text file. Topic modeling is then performed on the cleansed text file. Various methods can be used to perform topic modeling, including, but not limited to, latent semantic analysis, nonnegative matrix factorization, and singular value decomposition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08682883&OS=08682883&RS=08682883
owner: Predictix LLC
number: 08682883
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120416
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 475 605 filed 14 Apr. 2011 the entire contents and substance of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for identifying sets of similar products and more specifically relates to systems and methods for automatically determining which sets of products are likely to be substitutes.

A number of retail processes and decisions depend on knowing which products are likely substitutes for other products. These decisions include various forecasting processes which estimate how sales will evolve in response to pricing and promotional changes or in the presence of stockouts. They also include decisions about which products to offer at any point in time which products to replenish or which products to offer in the future for planning purposes. By way of example it can be difficult to identify that Advil and Motrin are similar products by simply relying on the descriptive information in retailer s internal systems for printing shelf tags. Brand names do not always provide information about the content and functionality of a product.

Several approaches can be used to determine possible substitutes. For example a judgmental approach can be used. In the judgmental approach business experts associate substitute items with each other. With or without some system support for the process the experts are asked to assign items to groups of substitutes based on their knowledge of the items and customer behavior. This approach suffers from inconsistencies in knowledge and skill across the company and from practical difficulties of maintaining the information over time.

Another approach can be a statistical approach. In the statistical approach a model is proposed that relates the quantity sold of one item e.g. the target item to the pricing or promotional variations for another item e.g. the potential substitute . If the former can be shown to be significantly correlated to the latter then the items are presumed to be substitutes. This approach suffers from its dependence on there being information on historical conditions suitable to test such a model. These conditions include 1 the target item has sufficient history in which the potential substitute does not exhibit price and promotional variations 2 the price and promotional variations of the potential substitute occur when the target item is available for sale and in stock and 3 the price and promotional variations of the potential substitute do not correspond closely to price and promotional variations in other potential substitutes i.e. co promotions .

Even when such conditions are reflected in the data the nature of retail sales is such that many non modeled phenomena will affect the sales of the target item including the fundamental randomness of consumer behavior. The consequence is that even if the pricing and promotional variations in the potential substitute item do in fact influence the sale of the target item this may not be reflected in the correlation measured by the model or may not be measured with sufficient confidence to declare that the items are substitutes.

Briefly described embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for determining sets of products that may be similar in terms of customer needs or wants. Various embodiments of the present invention can provide for readily identifying sets of items that may be viewed by consumers as similar to each other. One such exemplary use is in processes that employ statistical methods to measure substitution propensities. Using certain embodiments of the present invention these processes can better able to by way of example and not by way of limitation support decisions to set or change prices to respond to consumer requests for products with alternatives that may be preferable to the customer or to the seller and to improve sales forecasts of other products when a product is not available for sale. Another exemplary use can be in processes by which retailers determine what products they will offer for sale in which it is of great value to have in the set of products being considered not only sets of similar products for which the retailer has experience but also products unfamiliar to the retailer identified as similar by querying product descriptions on the internet. A still further use can be in processes by which retailers replenish their stocks in which it is of great value to enhance the replenishment logic and rules to substitute a similar product if a replenishment request cannot be honored due to lack of availability in the retailer s supply chain.

In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention certain queries are performed on a set of products. Documents relating to the query are received and stored. A dictionary is created from the received documents whereby the documents which are text files are scrubbed of certain data to create a scrubbed text file. Topic modeling is then performed on the cleansed text file. Various methods can be used to perform topic modeling including but not limited to latent semantic analysis nonnegative matrix factorization and singular value decomposition.

One exemplary embodiment of the present invention is a computer implemented method comprising receiving an identification of a product for clustering into one or more sets of similar products transmitting a query to one or more internet websites or accessible databases having information related to the product receiving from the one or more internet websites information relevant to the product merging and storing at least a portion of the received information into one or more databases transforming at least a portion of the received information into a text file cleansing at least a portion of the text file to create a cleansed text file creating a dictionary from at least a portion of the cleansed text file wherein the dictionary comprises words found in the cleansed text file and performing topic modeling on the cleansed text file to determine one or more substitutes of the product.

As disclosed while the present invention can operate manipulate all data for example transforming all of the received information into a text file it need not completely perform such steps. Thus in some exemplary embodiments the present invention merges and stores at least a portion of the received information into one or more databases and or transforms at least a portion of the received information into a text file and or cleanses at least a portion of the text file to create a cleansed text file among other exemplary steps.

One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the present invention can provide relevant and beneficial results when it performs steps on less than all the data discussed in each step and when used herein as acting on all data it is also understood that a step or feature of a system can act on at least a portion of the data.

In another exemplary embodiment the present invention is a computer implemented method comprising receiving an identification of a product for clustering into one or more sets of similar products transmitting a query to one or more internet websites having information related to the product receiving from the one or more internet websites information relevant to the product merging and storing the received information into one or more databases transforming received information into a text file cleansing the text file to create a cleansed text file creating a dictionary from the cleansed text file wherein the dictionary comprises all words found in the cleansed text file and performing topic modeling on the cleansed text file.

In yet another exemplary embodiment is a non transitory computer readable medium having software instructions stored thereon which when executed by a client device causes the client device to perform the operations comprising receiving an identification of a product for clustering into one or more sets of similar products transmitting a query to one or more internet websites having information related to the product receiving from the one or more internet websites information relevant to the product merging and storing the received information into one or more databases transforming all received information into a text file cleansing the text file to create a cleansed text file creating a dictionary from the cleansed text file wherein the dictionary comprises all words found in the cleansed text file and performing topic modeling on the cleansed text file.

A further embodiment of the present invention is a system for topic modeling comprising a client computer comprising a processor configured to execute computer executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions for receiving an identification of a product for clustering into one or more sets of similar products transmitting a query to one or more internet websites having information related to the product receiving from the one or more internet websites information relevant to the product merging and storing the received information into one or more databases transforming all received information into a text file cleansing the text file to create a cleansed text file creating a dictionary from the cleansed text file wherein the dictionary comprises all words found in the cleansed text file and performing topic modeling on the cleansed text file to determine one or more substitutes of the product. The system further comprises a database for storing the text file the cleansed text file and the dictionary.

Further features of embodiments of the present invention and the advantages offered thereby are explained in greater detail hereinafter with reference to specific embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like elements are indicated by like reference designators.

To facilitate an understanding of the principles and features of the various embodiments of the invention various illustrative embodiments are explained below. Although exemplary embodiments of the invention are explained in detail it is to be understood that other embodiments are contemplated. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention is limited in its scope to the details of construction and arrangement of components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also in describing the exemplary embodiments specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity.

It must also be noted that as used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example reference to a component is intended also to include composition of a plurality of components. References to a composition containing a constituent are intended to include other constituents in addition to the one named.

Also in describing the exemplary embodiments terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. It is intended that each term contemplates its broadest meaning as understood by those skilled in the art and includes all technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar purpose.

By comprising or containing or including is meant that at least the named compound element particle or method step is present in the composition or article or method but does not exclude the presence of other compounds materials particles method steps even if the other such compounds material particles method steps have the same function as what is named.

It is also to be understood that the mention of one or more method steps does not preclude the presence of additional method steps or intervening method steps between those steps expressly identified. Similarly it is also to be understood that the mention of one or more components in a composition does not preclude the presence of additional components than those expressly identified.

The present invention discloses methods and systems for determining which sets of products are likely to be substitutes of each other by applying one of a plurality of machine learning algorithms to the descriptive information available on product websites. For example a situation may be that while a retailer is engaged with a customer and by learning her needs the retailer may wish to present several alternatives to the customer to increase the likelihood that the customer will purchase something. These alternatives or substitutes could be presented by the retailer on its website if the customer is shopping via the internet or could be presented in person in the store. The present invention can permit a retailer to create and effectively manage sets of similar products which can be readily accessed for this purpose.

Another example situation can be that the retailer may wish to recommend one particular product from the set of similar products which can be the product best suited to the customer s needs as discerned by the retailer or can be the product which provides the highest profit or expected profit to the retailer. Often retailers allocate certain budgets for the purposes of promotions advertising or other marketing of categories or products. The present invention permits the retailer to create and effectively manage sets of similar products which can be readily accessed for this purpose.

An Internet query can return relevant website information either from the manufacturer rating sites or e commerce sites. This information can be collected into documents and the problem of clustering like products can be cast as a document clustering problem also known as topic modeling in the data mining community . There are a number of techniques suitable for clustering documents including Latent Semantic Analysis NonNegative Matrix Factorization and Singular Value Decomposition.

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface API for use by a developer and or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like.

Various embodiments of the present invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus and PCI Express.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer .

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection or fiber optic connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared optical phased array antenna operating at any wavelength directional and non directional electromagnetic emitters and receivers operating at any wavelength and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . A graphics interface can also be connected to the system bus . The chipset can communicate with the CPU or host processing unit and assume responsibility for accelerated graphics port AGP communications. One or more graphics processing units GPUs can communicate with graphics interface . In this regard GPUs generally include on chip memory storage such as register storage and GPUs communicate with a video memory . GPUs however are but one example of a coprocessor and thus a variety of co processing devices can be included in computer . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface which can in turn communicate with video memory . In addition to monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which can be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client device can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. The present invention can apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The present invention can also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

Distributed computing facilitates sharing of computer resources and services by direct exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices can have applications objects or resources that can interact to implicate authentication techniques of the present invention for trusted graphics pipeline s .

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing a user with information regarding possible substitutes to a particular product or service. The query can take various forms including queries from consumers interested in finding substitutes to a particular product. Client computer transmits a query to one or more Internet websites via worldwide web Internet search engine . Internet search engine queries Internet websites to determine if information relevant to the query is contained in the applicable server for each website servers respectively. It should be noted that the queries can be directed to other sources of information including but not limited to electronic databases accessible via the Internet or other form of electronic communication. It should further be noted that the present invention is not limited to queries transmitted to external databases. By way of example and not by way of limited computer can transmit a query to internal database . Database can be configured to either perform a search function for the relevant information or can be pre populated with information relevant to the query. Additionally the present invention is not limited to the use of discrete databases such as database and database but rather and not by way of limitation can be used on one database or multiple databases. Further it should be noted that the present invention is not limited to client computer receiving a query from an external source as other ways and methods can be employed to cause client computer to query databases including but not limited to automatic internal processes that generate queries based on one or more factors. For example a query can be generated based on stocking levels of a company using the present invention.

If relevant information is contained in one or more of websites the information is transmitted from websites to client computer and stored in database . Database can be one or more databases in communication with each other. Once the information is received and stored in database the information is transformed into text file . Text file can be stored in database or can be stored in one or more other databases.

In order to perform a topic modeling function on text file text file is cleansed of certain information. For example text file can contain HTML tags metadata punctuation and numbers. Text file is scrubbed to produce cleansed text file which can be stored in the same database or in one or more local or remote databases. Dictionary is created from cleansed text file and can be stored in database or in one or more local or remote databases. Dictionary can comprise the words found in cleansed text file .

Once dictionary is created client computer performs topic modeling on the contents of the dictionary . A topic model is a type of statistical model for discovering the abstract topics that occur in a collection of documents. One type of topic modeling is latent semantic indexing. Other statistical methods for discovering abstract topics can also be used and are considered to be within the scope of the present invention including but not limited to nonnegative matrix factorization and singular value decomposition.

Other types of weight computation methods may be employed and are considered to be within the scope of the present invention. Another exemplary weight computation may be 1 documents in which the word appears .

Once the dictionary is modified an exemplary next step can be to convert the dictionary to a sparse m p matrix where m is the number of documents or products and p is the number of words. Each entry in the matrix is the count of each corresponding word multiplied by its weight. Then perform Singular Value Decomposition on this matrix. It should be noted that other types of decomposition methods may be used along with other clustering or dimensionality reduction methods which also may be known as low rank factorizations and all are considered to be within the scope of the present invention. Some methods include but are not limited to Nonnegative Matrix Factorization Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis Low Rank Factorization via Nuclear Norm Minimization Local Linear Embedding Isomap Maximum Variance Unfolding SVD and Randomized SVD.

Each document or product is now represented by its corresponding row of the left singular vectors eigenvectors . The rows of the right singular vector eigenvectors represent the clusters of like products. The cluster to which each product belongs is found by projecting the sparse p dimensional vector corresponding to its document onto each of the right eigenvectors representing the clusters. The projection which produces the maximum value identifies that product s cluster. The reliability of the clusters identified by various methods disclosed above can be improved using various robustness algorithms in which one of the non deterministic factorization methods such as but not limited to Nonnegative Matrix Factorization Probabilistic Latent Semantic Analysis and Randomized SVD is executed multiple times. For every product the products in its cluster can be recorded without removing duplicates. Then the frequency of every cluster member across the multiple executions is recorded. Only products for which the frequency exceeds some threshold are identified as belonging to the cluster.

It should be noted that by representing each product by the low dimensional eigenvector step the invention permits a plurality of other methods for deriving clusters of similar products. One such alternative is to apply a nearest neighbor algorithm to determine which vectors are closest in Euclidean space and hence represent the most similar products. Exact nearest neighbor algorithms can be performed with kd trees and the dual tree algorithm by way of example and not by way of limitation. Approximate nearest neighbors can also be found with spill trees or with locally sensitive hashing.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems and or processes via examples and or operational diagrams. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications can be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein.

