---

title: Determining access to comments
abstract: The subject technology discloses configurations for providing comments restricted to a set of users for web content on a web page. In one implementation, a widget is provided that enables a content provider or a user to provide comments restricted to the set of users in a manner that does not disrupt an existing implementation or presentation of publicly viewable web content that already provides public comments from visitors of the web site. In particular, the widget may be provided as a plugin or extension in the user's web browser, or be integrated in the web page by the content provider. The scope of the comments restricted to the set of users are defined by one or more access control lists, which allow the comments restricted to the set of users to be only viewable by a specified set of users (and not viewable by other users).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348921&OS=09348921&RS=09348921
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09348921
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 641 269 entitled DETERMINING ACCESS TO COMMENTS filed on May 1 2012 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Some web sites enable visitors e.g. different users to provide comments in response to different web content e.g. videos articles etc. . Such comments may be public and available for viewing by a user visiting a web site. As a result a comment provided by a user is available for viewing by other users visiting the web site.

The subject technology provides for determining one or more public comments provided in a web page in which the one or more public comments comprise a first format for providing public commenting by one or more viewers of the web page. The first format is native to the web page in some configurations. The subject technology receives comment data in which the comment data is in response to a respective public comment among the determined one or more public comments. A selection of a set of users is received that defines a scope for viewing the received comment data. The set of users is associated with a respective access control list that defines the scope for viewing the received comment data. The scope for viewing the received comment data includes one or more unique users. The set of users includes a single user a group of users a set of groups or an organization. The selection of the set of users includes selecting a group of users. The group of users is defined by social circle in an online social networking service. Further the subject technology generates a comment restricted to the set of users based on the scope for viewing the received comment data wherein the generated comment includes a second format for providing commenting restricted to the set of users. The second format provides compatibility with a user s social graph. The first format is incompatible with the user s social graph. The web page is provided by a first service and the user s social graph is provided by a second service. Additionally the subject technology provides for display the determined one or more public comments and the generated comment in which the generated comment is displayed separately to distinguish from the determined one or more public comments.

Further the subject technology determines a user corresponding to a current viewer the web page. The user is determined based on one or more login credentials of the current viewer of the web page in one example. The user is determined based on a corresponding online social networking profile in one example. The subject technology determines if the generated comment is available for the determined user based on the scope for viewing the generated comment. The generated comment restricted to the set of users is then provided for display if the generated comment is available for the determined user. In some implementations the generated comment is associated with a respective access control list that includes a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users. Additionally generating the comment restricted to the set of users is implemented in some configurations by generating an entry in a new access control list including a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users in which the entry associates the comment to the new access control list. The subject technology further determines one or more public comments on the web page and provides for display the determined one or more public comments in which the displayed public comments are displayed separately from the generated comment.

The subject technology further includes a system. The system includes memory one or more processors one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. The system includes a content viewer module configured to determine a user corresponding to a current viewer of web content on a web page. The system further includes a comments module configured to determine one or more public comments provided in the web page in which the one or more public comments comprise a first format for providing public commenting by one or more viewers of the web page. The comments module is further configured to receive comment data in which the comment data is in response to a respective public comment among the determined one or more public comments. The comments module is further configured to receive a selection of a set of users that defines a scope for viewing the received comment data and generate a comment restricted to the set of users based on the scope for viewing the received comment data in which the generated comment includes a second format for providing commenting restricted to the set of users. The system further includes a graphical user interface GUI display module configured to provide for display the determined one or more public comments and the generated comment in which the generated comment is displayed separately to distinguish from the determined one or more public comments. The selection of the set of users comprises selecting a group of users. The group of users is defined by social circle in an online social networking service. The first format is native to the web page. The second format provides compatibility with a user s social graph. The web page is provided by a first service and the user s social graph is provided by a second service. The first format is incompatible with the user s social graph.

The comments module is further configured to determine if the generated comment is available for the determined user based on the scope for viewing the generated comment. The GUI display module is further configured to provide for display the generated comment restricted to the set of users if the generated comment is available for the determined user. The generated comment is associated with a respective access control list that includes a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users. The comments modules is further configured to generate an entry in a new access control list including a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users in which the entry associates the comment to the new access control list. The comments module is further configured to perform a search request of available comments for the web content to determine if the user is included in a respective access control list for viewing a respective comment restricted to the set of users. The GUI display module is further configured to provide for display the determined one or more public comments in which the displayed public comments are displayed separately from one or more comments restricted to the set of users.

Further the subject technology provides for determining one or more public comments provided in a web page in which the one or more public comments comprise a first format for providing public commenting by one or more viewers of the web page. Comment data is then received in which the comment data is in response to a respective public comment among the determined one or more public comments. The subject technology receives a selection of a set of users that defines a scope for viewing the received comment data in which the set of users includes one or more unique contacts among one or more contacts of a user s social graph. A comment restricted to the set of users based on the scope for viewing the received comment data is generated in which the generated comment comprises a second format for providing commenting restricted to the set of users that is compatible with the user s social graph and incompatible with the first format for providing public commenting.

These and other implementations may provide one or more of the following advantages. For instance the subject technology enables a conversation to take place between a set of users included in a user s social graph within a web page including one or more public comments where the web page does not support an interaction with the user s social graph. Consequently the set of users can provide comments restricted to the set of users from the user s social graph in view of one or more public comments within the same page. Providing such comments on the same web page can provide a more seamless user experience. Thus a user that creates the conversation can forgo a step of first sharing a public comment s to the set of users and then navigating to a separate page service or application e.g. away from the pubic comment in order view the conversation between the set of users. Additionally the subject technology can present the conversation in a manner that visually distinguishes the comments restricted to the set of users from the public comments on the same web page.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent from the following detailed description where various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

Some web sites enable visitors e.g. different users to provide comments in response to different web content e.g. videos articles etc. . Such comments are typically public and available for viewing by a user visiting a web site. As a result a comment provided by a user is available for viewing by another user visiting the web site. However in some instances a user viewing the web content may wish to provide comments e.g. in response to a public comment made by another user that are restricted in scope to a specified group of users. The user in this example does not want other users outside of the restricted scope to view the comments.

In view of the above the subject technology provides in one implementation a widget for providing comments restricted to a set of users for web content on a web page hosted by a web site. In some instances the web page may provide one or more public comments. The public comments may be in a native format provided by the web page. However the web page does not natively support an interaction e.g. a conversation between a user and other users from the user s social graph with the one or more public comments. The widget therefore enables a content provider or a user to provide comments restricted to the set of users in a manner that does not disrupt an existing implementation or presentation of web content that already provides one or more public comments from visitors of the web site. In this fashion the widget enables the user to provide a conversation restricted to other users from the user s social graph within web content that does not natively support interaction with the user s social graph. The widget may be provided as a plugin or extension in the user s web browser or be integrated in the web page by the content provider. Other implementations can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology. The aforementioned set of users e.g. from the user s social graph includes a single user a group of users a set of groups or an organization in some implementations.

For posting a comment restricted to a set of users the widget can present different options to a user for restrict the comment to a certain group of people. For example the widget can provide for selecting one or more groups e.g. social circles defined by a given social networking service that organizes one or more contacts of a user in the social circles. A social circle represents a grouping of one or more contacts from the user s social graph based on a level of trust or a type of relationship etc. Alternatively the widget allows the user to manually provide the group of users that are permitted to view the comment restricted to the set of users. In one example the subject technology associates the comment restricted to the set of users with an access control list that defines the scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users based on the selected group of users. The access control list manages a set of permissions for the comment restricted to the set of users in which permissions define a set of actions that can be performed on the comment restricted to the set of users including defining a scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users.

The comment restricted to the set of users in one example is provided in a format that is incompatible with the public comments provided in the web page. More specifically the public comments in the web page do not provide access to the user s contacts from the user s social graph. For instance the web page may only provide public commenting between users that are registered to the web site hosting the web page and such public commenting is unrestricted for viewing to visitors of the web page. In order to allow access to the user s contacts within the social graph the comment restricted to the set of users is provided in a different format from the public comments that is compatible with the user s social graph to allow access to the contacts from the user s social graph. Thus the subject technology can be understood as providing an importation of the user s social graph to enable commenting on a given web page that does not natively allow access to the contacts from the user s social graph. Further any comments from the user and or contacts from the user s social graph are hidden from view from other viewers of the web page to ensure confidentiality of the comments from an unintended viewer.

When another user views the web content on the web page the subject technology e.g. widget performs a search request according to an access control list to determine one or more comments restricted to the set of users which are available for viewing. For instance the subject technology performs a search request of available comments for the web content to determine if the viewing user is included in a respective access control list for viewing the comments restricted to the set of users. In one example each comment can be associated with an access control list s . Comments restricted to the set of users that are available for viewing based on the access control list will be presented by the widget with a different visual indicator e.g. icon graphical representation etc. to distinguish between one or more public comments. Additionally the subject technology may perform different filtering techniques e.g. based on one or more different criteria to display and or organize the comments restricted to the set of users from one or more public comments provided in the web page.

Further in some implementations when a user replies to an existing comment restricted to the set of users the additional reply can inherit the scope from the access control list of a top level comment e.g. an initial comment restricted to the set of users that is being directly or indirectly replied to in an existing conversation or series of comments restricted to the set of users . In one example this is implemented as an annotation e.g. data structure data field etc. on the top level comment in which the reply can only be viewed with the top level comment and not separately. Alternatively or conjunctively a reply to a comment restricted to the set of users will contain a reference to the access control list for the top level comment. In this manner the reply is provided in its own annotation and shares an access control list with the top level comment. As such two copies of the access control list are provided one in the top level comment and one in the reply. However if the access control list changes in the top level comment the change s will propagate to the reply. In some implementations a scope of a comment can be locked by a user. For instance a user that replies to the top level comment may wish to disable changes to the scope of the user s reply comment. As a result if the scope of the top level comment changes e.g. from being restricted to the set of users to public the changed scope is not applied to the user s reply and thus preserves the restricted scope of the user s reply comment. Additionally the scope of the top level comment may be locked to disable changes to the scope in some implementations.

As illustrated in the example GUI different graphical representations and of contacts are shown. The contacts can be contacts in a user s social graph e mail contacts different users of the web page etc. GUI further includes display areas and that correspond to various comments. For instance the graphical representation is associated with a public comment shown in the display area . The public comment is visible to all viewers of the web page provided by the online social networking service in some configurations. In another example the public comment can be provided in an online forum hosted by a web site or associated with an article video or other web content provided by the web site.

The GUI enables one or more users to submit comments restricted to the set of users in response to the public comment. As further shown the GUI shows the graphical representation associated with a comment restricted to the set of users shown in the display area . The user creating an initial comment restricted to the set of users e.g. moderator is able to assign a scope for viewing the initial comment restricted to the set of users and ensuing replies. The scope can include one or more other users including one or more groups of users that are defined by the online social networking service e.g. social circles . In one example the user acting in the role of the moderator can change the scope of comments restricted to the set of users e.g. the initial comment restricted to the set of users and one or more replies to either broaden or further restrict the number of users that can view the comments restricted to the set of users.

In the example shown in users corresponding to the graphical representations and have provided respective comments restricted to the set of users e.g. in display areas and in response to the initial comment restricted to the set of users shown in the display area . Each comment restricted to the set of users is restricted for viewing according to the scope of users assigned to the initial comment restricted to the set of users. In this manner comments restricted to the set of users are not viewable by each visitor to the web page.

The GUI enables a user shown as the graphical representation to submit a new comment restricted to the set of users by inputting comment data e.g. via keyboard input into a textbox . In one example the graphical representation indicates the current user viewing the web page that can be determined based on the user s login credentials profile information etc. In addition to keyboard input other types of input can be accepted and still be within the scope of the subject technology. For instance some configuration could accept voice input for submitting a comment restricted to the set of users.

Although the example shown in the GUI illustrates the comments restricted to the set of users in a particular arrangement other types of arrangements for the comments restricted to the set of users can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology. For instance the GUI can include a graphical element to collapse or expand comments restricted to the set of users. Further comments restricted to the set of users can be indicated displayed in different ways e.g. utilizing different colors shading or other graphical indicators etc. . Additionally although the GUI includes certain graphical elements it should be understood that the GUI is not required to include all graphical elements shown in . Moreover the GUI could include more graphical elements than shown in the example of .

The process begins at by determining a user corresponding to a current viewer of web content on a web page. The web page is enabled for one or more public comments and comments restricted to the set of users in which the web content is available for viewing by each viewer of the web page in some configurations. In one example the user is determined based on one or more login credentials of the current viewer of the web content. Additionally the user is determined based on a corresponding online social networking profile in some configurations.

The process at determines one or more comments restricted to the set of users which are available for the determined user in which each comment restricted to the set of users is restricted for viewing to a subset of viewers of the web page. In one example determining one or more comments restricted to the set of users which are available is accomplished by performing a search request of available comments for the web content to determine if the user is included in a respective access control list for viewing a respective comment restricted to the set of users among the determined comments restricted to the set of users. The determined one or more comments restricted to the set of users are associated with a respective access control list that defines a scope for viewing the comments restricted to the set of users. The scope for viewing the comments restricted to the set of users includes one or more unique users and the determined user.

As described above the web page may provide one or more public comments. However the web page does not natively support an interaction e.g. a conversation between a user and other users from the user s social graph with the one or more public comments. The subject technology therefore enables a content provider or a user to provide comments restricted to the set of users in a manner that does not disrupt an existing implementation or presentation of web content that already provides one or more public comments from visitors of the web site. In this fashion the subject technology provides a conversation restricted to other users from the user s social graph within web content that does not natively support interaction with the user s social graph. In one example the determined comments restricted to the set of users are in response to a respective public comment of the web content. In particular the respective public comment available for viewing by all viewers of the web content and the determined comments restricted to the set of users restricted for viewing by a scope defined by a corresponding access control list.

The process at provides for display the determined one or more comments restricted to the set of users available for the determined user. The determined one or more comments restricted to the set of users are displayed separately to distinguish from one or more public comments associated with the web content. In some configurations the process can filter the determined one or more comments restricted to the set of users for display according to one or more criteria. The process then ends.

The process begins at by receiving comment data associated with a comment restricted to the set of users in which the comment restricted to the set of users corresponds with web content provided in a web page. In one example the comment restricted to the set of users is received via an online submission based on user input e.g. user entry via a textbox element etc. .

The process at receives a selection of one or more users that defines a scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users in which the comment restricted to the set of users is only available for viewing based on the selection of the one or more users. In some configurations the scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users is included in an access control list that is associated with the comment restricted to the set of users. The selection of one or more users involves selecting a group of users in one example. For instance the group of users is defined by social circle in an online social networking service.

The process at generates the comment restricted to the set of users corresponding with the web content according to the scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users defined by the selection of the one or more users. In one example generating the comment restricted to the set of users involves generating an entry in a new access control list including the scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users in which the entry associates the comment restricted to the set of users to the new access control list. The process then ends.

The process begins at by receiving comment data for replying to a comment restricted to the set of users. In one example the comment data is received via user input provided via an online submission based on user input e.g. user entry via a textbox element etc. .

The process at determines a top level comment associated with the comment restricted to the set of users. In some configurations the top level comment is an initial comment restricted to the set of users that starts a conversation thread or series of comments restricted to the set of users.

The process at determines an access control list associated with the determined top level comment. The process at generates a reply to the comment restricted to the set of users based on the received comment data and the determined access control list.

The process then provides for display at the generated reply to the comment restricted to the set of users. In one example process displays the reply in a view including the top level comment. The process then ends.

The process begins at by determining one or more public comments provided in a web page where the one or more public comments include a first format for providing public commenting by one or more viewers of the web page. The first format is native to the web page in one example. For example a web site hosting the web page may receive and store public comments in a native format for viewing to visitors of the web page. However the native format does not allow for a visitor of the web page to provide a comment restricted to one or more contacts from the visitor s social graph.

The process at receives comment data where the comment data is in response to a respective public comment among the determined one or more public comments. For instance the comment data may be received from input provided by a user.

The process at receives a selection of a set of users that defines a scope for viewing the received comment data. The selection of the set of users includes selecting a group of users in one example. The group of users can be predefined or organized based on a relationship with a user. By way of example the group of users is defined by social circle in an online social networking service. Other ways to organize the group of users can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The process at generates a comment restricted to the set of users based on the scope for viewing the received comment data where the generated comment is in a second format for providing commenting restricted to the set of users. The second format provides compatibility with a user s social graph in one example. For instance the aforementioned first format is incompatible with the user s social graph. In this manner the process provides a transformation of comment data into the second format different than the first format that is native to the web page in order to integrate and enable interaction with the user s social graph in the web page. Further the web page is provided by a first service and the user s social graph is provided by a second service in one example.

In some configurations the generated comment is associated with a respective access control list that includes a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users. For instance generating the comment restricted to the set of users includes generating an entry in a new access control list including a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users in which the entry associates the comment to the new access control list.

The process at provides for display the determined one or more public comments and the generated comment where the generated comment is displayed separately to distinguish from the determined one or more public comments. For instance the generated comment may be displayed to highlight or clearly identify the restricted aspect of the generated comment. The process then ends.

The system can include memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. As shown in the system includes several modules for providing different functionality. The system is configured to include a content viewer module a comments module and a graphical user interface GUI display module .

The content viewer module is configured to determine a user corresponding to a current viewer of web content on a web page in which the web page is enabled for one or more public comments and comments restricted to a set of users in which the web content is available for viewing by each viewer of the web page. The user is determined based on a corresponding online social networking profile in one example. The comments module is configured to determine one or more comments restricted to the set of users which are available for the determined user in which each comment restricted to the set of users is restricted for viewing to a subset of viewers of the web page. The GUI display module is configured to provide for display the determined one or more comments restricted to the set of users available for the determined user in which the determined one or more comments restricted to the set of users are displayed separately to distinguish from one or more public comments associated with the web content.

Additionally the comments module is further configured to perform a search request of available comments for the web content to determine if the user is included in a respective access control list for viewing a respective comment restricted to the set of users among the determined comments restricted to the set of users.

The GUI display module is further configured to filter the determined one or more comments restricted to the set of users for display according to one or more criteria. The comments module is further configured to receive comment data associated with a comment restricted to the set of users in which the comment restricted to the set of users corresponds with web content provided in a web page receive a selection of one or more users that defines a scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users in which the comment restricted to the set of users is only available for viewing based on the selection of the one or more users and generate the comment restricted to the set of users corresponding with the web content according to the scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users defined by the selection of the one or more users.

Additionally the comments module is further configured to generate an entry in a new access control list including the scope for viewing the comment restricted to the set of users in which the entry associates the comment restricted to the set of users to the new access control list. Moreover the comments module is further configured to determine one or more public comments of the web content on the web page.

In some configurations the comments module is configured to receive comment data for replying to a comment restricted to the set of users determine a top level comment associated with the comment restricted to the set of users determine an access control list associated with the determined top level comment and generate a reply to the comment restricted to the set of users based on the received comment data and the determined access control list.

The GUI display module is further configured to provide for display the determined one or more public comments in which the displayed public comments are displayed separately from comments restricted to the set of users. Further the GUI display module is configured to provide for display a generated reply to a comment restricted to the set of users.

In some configurations the comments module is configured to determine one or more public comments provided in the web page in which the one or more public comments are in a first format for providing public commenting by one or more viewers of the web page. The first format is native to the web page in one example. The comments module is further configured to receive comment data in which the comment data is in response to a respective public comment among the determined one or more public comments. The comments module is also configured to receive a selection of a set of users that defines a scope for viewing the received comment data and generate a comment restricted to the set of users based on the scope for viewing the received comment data in which the generated comment is in a second format for providing commenting restricted to the set of users. The second format provides compatibility with a user s social graph. The web page is provided by a first service and the user s social graph is provided by a second service in one example. The first format is incompatible with the user s social graph in some configurations. The selection of the set of users includes selecting a group of users in one example. The group of users is defined by social circle in an online social networking service in one example. The GUI display module is configured to provide for display the determined one or more public comments and the generated comment in which the generated comment is displayed separately to distinguish from the determined one or more public comments.

The comments module is further configured to determine if the generated comment is available for the determined user based on the scope for viewing the generated comment. The GUI display module is further configured to provide for display the generated comment restricted to the set of users if the generated comment is available for the determined user. In some configurations the generated comment is associated with a respective access control list that includes a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users. The comments modules is further configured to generate an entry in a new access control list including a scope for viewing the generated comment data based on the set of users in which the entry associates the comment to the new access control list.

As further shown in each of the aforementioned modules can be configured to communicate between each other. For instance different data messages API calls and returns can be passed between the different modules in the system .

The system can communicate over a network with a client computing device . The client computing device can each be configured to communicate with the aforementioned modules of the system . For instance the client computing device can transmit comment data for one or more comments restricted to the set of users over the network to the system . In response the system can generate and provide one or more comments restricted to the set of users over the network to the client computing device . As further shown in the system can communicate over the network with other client computing device s in a similar manner and vice versa .

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of machine readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The machine readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory and or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software components can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software components. In some implementations multiple software subject components can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally a combination of separate programs that together implement a software component s described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in a form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in some form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Some configurations are implemented as software processes that include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which can include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API can provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

One or more APIs may be used in some configurations. An API is an interface implemented by a program code component or hardware component API implementing component that allows a different program code component or hardware component API calling component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementing component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementing component.

An API allows a developer of an API calling component that could be a third party developer to utilize specified features provided by an API implementing component. There may be one API calling component or there may be more than one such component. An API can be a source code interface that a computing system or program library provides to support requests for services from an application. An operating system OS can have multiple APIs to allow applications running on the OS to call one or more of those APIs and a service such as a program library can have multiple APIs to allow an application that uses the service to call one or more of those APIs. An API can be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpreted or compiled when an application is built.

In some configurations the API implementing component may provide more than one API each providing a different view of or with different aspects that access different aspects of the functionality implemented by the API implementing component. For example one API of an API implementing component can provide a first set of functions and can be exposed to third party developers and another API of the API implementing component can be hidden not exposed and provide a subset of the first set of functions and also provide another set of functions such as testing or debugging functions which are not in the first set of functions. In other configurations the API implementing component may itself call one or more other components via an underlying API and thus be both an API calling component and an API implementing component.

An API defines the language and parameters that API calling components use when accessing and using specified features of the API implementing component. For example an API calling component accesses the specified features of the API implementing component through one or more API calls or invocations embodied for example by function or method calls exposed by the API and passes data and control information using parameters via the API calls or invocations. The API implementing component may return a value through the API in response to an API call from an API calling component. While the API defines the syntax and result of an API call e.g. how to invoke the API call and what the API call does the API may not reveal how the API call accomplishes the function specified by the API call. Various API calls are transferred via the one or more application programming interfaces between the calling API calling component and an API implementing component. Transferring the API calls may include issuing initiating invoking calling receiving returning or responding to the function calls or messages. In other words transferring can describe actions by either of the API calling component or the API implementing component. The function calls or other invocations of the API may send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure. A parameter can be a constant key data structure object object class variable data type pointer array list or a pointer to a function or method or another way to reference a data or other item to be passed via the API.

Furthermore data types or classes may be provided by the API and implemented by the API implementing component. The API calling component therefore can declare variables use pointers to use or instantiate constant values of such types or classes by using definitions provided in the API.

Generally an API can be used to access a service or data provided by the API implementing component or to initiate performance of an operation or computation provided by the API implementing component. By way of example the API implementing component and the API calling component may each be one of an operating system a library a device driver an API an application program or other module it should be understood that the API implementing component and the API calling component may be the same or different type of module from each other . API implementing components may in some cases be embodied at least in part in firmware microcode or other hardware logic. In some configurations an API may allow a client program to use the services provided by a Software Development Kit SDK library. In other configurations an application or other client program may use an API provided by an Application Framework. In these configurations the application or client program may incorporate calls to functions or methods provided by the SDK and provided by the API or use data types or objects defined in the SDK and provided by the API. An Application Framework may in these configurations provide a main event loop for a program that responds to various events defined by the Framework. The API allows the application to specify the events and the responses to the events using the Application Framework. In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities or state of a hardware device including those related to aspects such as input capabilities and state output capabilities and state processing capability power state storage capacity and state communications capability etc. and the API may be implemented in part by firmware microcode or other low level logic that executes in part on the hardware component.

The API calling component may be a local component i.e. on the same data processing system as the API implementing component or a remote component i.e. on a different data processing system from the API implementing component that communicates with the API implementing component through the API over a network. It should be understood that an API implementing component may also act as an API calling component i.e. it may make API calls to an API exposed by a different API implementing component and an API calling component may also act as an API implementing component by implementing an API that is exposed to a different API calling component.

The API can allow multiple API calling components written in different programming languages to communicate with the API implementing component thus the API may include features for translating calls and returns between the API implementing component and the API calling component . The API however can be implemented in terms of a specific programming language. An API calling component can in one configuration call APIs from different providers such as a set of APIs from an OS provider and another set of APIs from a plug in provider and another set of APIs from another provider e.g. the provider of a software library or creator of the another set of APIs.

The following description describes an example API architecture in which some configurations of the subject technology can be implemented.

It will be appreciated that the API implementing component can include additional functions methods classes data structures and or other features that are not specified through the API and are not available to the API calling component . It should be understood that the API calling component can be on the same system as the API implementing component or can be located remotely and accesses the API implementing component using the API over a network. While illustrates a single API calling component interacting with the API it should be understood that other API calling components which can be written in different languages or the same language than the API calling component can use the API .

The API implementing component the API and the API calling component can be stored in a machine readable medium which includes a mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer or other data processing system . For example a machine readable medium includes magnetic disks optical disks random access memory read only memory flash memory devices etc.

The following description describes an example system in which aspects of the subject technology can be implemented.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the system . The storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a flash drive a floppy disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device . Like the storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the subject technology s processes are stored in the system memory the storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the optional input and output interfaces and . The optional input interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the system. The optional input interface can interface with alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The optional output interface can provide display images generated by the system . The optional output interface can interface with printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations can interface with devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples system to a network interface through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or an interconnected network of networks such as the Internet. The components of system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude wireless signals wired download signals and other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be a form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in a form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Configurations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or a combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by a form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some configurations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that a specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes can be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps can be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the configurations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all configurations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect can refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration can refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

