---

title: Techniques for providing dynamic account and device management
abstract: Techniques for providing data in dynamic account and device management are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a system for providing data in dynamic account and device management. The system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to identify a user device to be managed. The one or more processors may be configured to transmit a request for delegate authority to manage the user device. The one or more processors may be configured to receive delegate authority to manage the user device. The one or more processors may be configured to provide network access to the user device. The one or more processors may also be configured to manage the user device and monitor data communicated to and from the user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984111&OS=08984111&RS=08984111
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08984111
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
The present disclosure relates generally to systems management and more particularly to techniques for providing dynamic account and device management.

More and more companies are allowing employees to bring their personal computing devices to work and use them in the work environment. Managing these personal devices and monitoring data communicated using these devices within a corporate setting are becoming increasingly challenging especially across multiple management systems and multiple accounts.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with conventional account and device management technologies as applied to personal computing devices used in a corporate infrastructure.

Techniques for providing dynamic account and device management are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for providing data in dynamic account and device management. The system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to identify a user device to be managed. The one or more processors may be configured to transmit a request for delegate authority to manage the user device. The one or more processors may be configured to receive delegate authority to manage the user device. The one or more processors may be configured to provide network access to the user device. The one or more processors may also be configured to manage the user device and monitor data communicated to and from the user device.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the user device may be a personal user device associated with a personal user account. In some embodiments the personal user account may comprise at least one of an Internet based account a cloud accessible account and an enterprise compatible account. In some embodiments the delegate authority may be granted by a primary accountholder of via the personal user account.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment identifying the user device to be managed may comprise receiving a request by a user of the user device for network access.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment identifying the user device to be managed may comprise detecting the user device within range of the network.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the request for delegate authority may comprise at least one of an email a text message an instant message a phone call a voicemail a website a uniform resource locator URL link and a menu window.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment network access may comprise network access to at least one of a corporate network enterprise network residential network and private network.

In another particular embodiment the technique s may be realized as a method for providing dynamic account and user device management. The method may comprise identifying using a computer a user device to be managed. The method may comprise transmitting a request for delegate authority to manage the user device. The method may comprise receiving delegate authority to manage the user device. The method may comprise providing network access to the user device. The method may comprise managing the user device and monitor data communicated to and from the user device.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the user device may be a personal user device associated with a personal user account comprising at least one of an Internet based account a cloud accessible account and an enterprise compatible account.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment identifying the user device to be managed may comprise at least one of receiving a request by a user of the user device for network access and detecting the user device within range of the network 

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment the request for delegate authority may comprise at least one of an email a text message an instant message a phone call a voicemail a website a uniform resource locator URL link and a menu window.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment network access may comprise network access to at least one of a corporate network enterprise network residential network and private network.

In another particular embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for providing dynamic account and user device management. The system may comprise one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network. The one or more processors may be configured to receive a request for delegate authority by an entity to manage a user device. The one or more processors may be configured to transmit information required to provide delegate authority to manage the user device. The one or more processors may be configured to receive network access at the user device wherein the entity manages the user device and monitors data communicated to and from the user device.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the user device may be a personal user device associated with a personal user account. In some embodiments the personal user account may comprise at least one of an Internet based account a cloud accessible account and an enterprise compatible account. In some embodiments the delegate authority may be granted by a primary accountholder of via the personal user account.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment the system may provide identity of the user device to be managed by receiving a request by a user of the user device for network access or detecting the user device within range of the network.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment the information required to provide delegate authority may comprise at least primary account holder identity information primary account holder verification information and delegate authority selection.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the request for delegate authority may comprise at least one of an email a text message an instant message a phone call a voicemail a website a uniform resource locator URL link and a menu window.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment network access may comprise network access to at least one of a corporate network enterprise network residential network and private network.

In another particular embodiment the technique s may be realized as a method for providing dynamic account and user device management. The method may comprise receiving a request for delegate authority by an entity to manage a user device. The method may comprise transmitting information required to provide delegate authority to manage the user device. The method may comprise receiving network access at the user device wherein the entity manages the user device and monitors data communicated to and from the user device.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the method may comprise providing identity of the user device to be managed by receiving a request by a user of the user device for network access or detecting the user device within range of the network.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment the user device may be a personal user device associated with a personal user account comprising at least one of an Internet based account a cloud accessible account and an enterprise compatible account.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular embodiment the information required to provide delegate authority may comprise at least primary account holder identity information primary account holder verification information and delegate authority selection.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular embodiment the request for delegate authority may comprise at least one of an email a text message an instant message a phone call a voicemail a website a uniform resource locator URL link and a menu window.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular embodiment network access may comprise network access to at least one of a corporate network enterprise network residential network and private network.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client systems and to network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Networks and may be local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs the Internet cellular networks satellite networks or other networks that permit communication between clients servers and other devices communicatively coupled to networks and . Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which they are communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments networks and may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to server A or B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup or archival purposes.

According to some embodiments clients and may be smartphones PDAs desktop computers a laptop computers servers other computers or other devices coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Clients and may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface.

Servers A and B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Servers A and B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data backup data or other data. Servers A and B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between clients and and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments servers A and B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data. One or more portions of data may be backed up or archived based on a backup policy and or an archive applied attributes associated with the data source space available for backup space available at the data source or other factors.

According to some embodiments clients and or may contain one or more portions of software for providing dynamic account and device management such as for example management module . As illustrated one or more portions of management module may reside at a network centric location. For example server A may be a server a firewall a gateway or other network element that may perform one or more actions to provide dynamic account and device management. According to some embodiments network may be an external network e.g. the Internet and server A may be a gateway or firewall between one or more internal components and clients and the external network.

Management module may provide among other things dynamic account authority for delegated scope of control over software and device management for an enterprise or corporate entity. As described above more and more companies are allowing employees to bring their personal computing devices to work and use them in the work environment. However managing these personal devices and monitoring data communicated using these devices within a corporate setting is becoming increasingly challenging especially across multiple management systems and multiple accounts.

A personal user account may define scope of control for a user and his or her computing device. The personal user account may also define software and services associated with the user or computing device. For example a personal user account may contain a user profile a user identity and or other related user credentials. Other various items may be registered to the personal user account as well. For example one or more devices one or more applications e.g. software applications and or services may be registered to the personal user account. Accordingly when a user authenticates himself or herself with the personal account the user may have access and control of devices applications and or services registered to the personal user account.

In order for another entity e.g. a business employer family member etc. to manage some or all of the devices applications and or services associated with the personal user account that entity may require some measure of authorization to access the personal user account. Such authority may be delegated to the entity by the user or account holder of the personal user account.

In order to provide such delegated authority the management module may interact with a personal user account. In some embodiments the personal user account may be an Internet based cloud accessible account or enterprise compatible account although other types of accounts may be used as well.

The management module may have device management capabilities. The management module may also have capabilities to add one or more authorized delegates to the personal user account. The one or more authorized delegate may be authenticated in various ways. For example in some embodiments the one or more authorized delegates may be authorized by the personal user account. In other embodiments the one or more authorized delegates may be authorized by another authorizing account different from the personal user account. In other embodiments the one or more authorized delegates may be authorized by some other trusted identity or source.

In some embodiments an owner or account holder of the personal user account may also grant access e.g. entire or partial access to his or her device associated with the personal user account before assigning a delegate either by an authorizing account or identity authorizes the delegate. For example a user e.g. employee may desire to use his or her personal computing device in a corporate setting e.g. employer entity to check email and or perform other work related functions. The user may put in a request e.g. with the Information Technology IT department of the employer entity to have his or her personal computing device configured to operate in the corporate setting.

In response the entity may send a communication to the owner or account holder of the personal user account to authenticate the personal user account and register the entity as a delegate. For instance the entity may send an email having an embedded uniform resource locator URL link to the owner or account holder of the personal user account to authenticate the personal user account and register the entity as a delegate. The URL may direct the owner or account holder to a website or menu window to verify him or herself as the owner or account holder and to delegate authority to the entity. Other various communications such as text message instant message phone call and voicemail may also be utilized.

In some embodiments a delegate may be registered without use of email with URL link. For example when a user brings his or her personal user device within a vicinity of a corporate network the corporate network may detect the personal user device. Upon detection or upon use of the personal device within the vicinity of the corporate network a window e.g. a pop up menu or other similar indicator may be presented at the user device so that the user of the device presumably the owner or account holder of the personal user account may authenticate the personal user account and register the entity associated with the corporate network as a delegate.

Delegate authority may have a range of authority. For example authority granted to the entity may be partial authority manage some of the device functions applications and or services or total authority manage all of the device functions applications and or services . It should be appreciated that the level of authority granted to the delegate may be customizable by the owner of the personal user account by the policies and standards of the entity by the capabilities of the device account management system or a combination thereof.

There may be several ways to provide delegated authority to a user device. One way may be to register explicit lists of networks for each account delegate. Another way may be to associate a URL only available on the corporate network e.g. LAN with the delegate. Here the management module of the user device may attempt to connect to the URL before granting the agreed upon control to the delegate account. Yet another way may be to use network discovery mechanisms such as the user device broadcast a request for local network specific management or a local server notify new user devices of the requirement for local network specific management. In some embodiments server pushed notifications may be a part of a dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP response or sent out of band in response to a DHCP request antenna reference point ARP discovery or other client network activity. Other various device or network discovery mechanisms may also be utilized.

It should be appreciated that in some embodiments delegate authority may be granted or received within a directory like service where there may be a single authority over all resources. Management systems using the same authority may have rights delegated in a static manner e.g. based on groups roles permissions other similar way. In other embodiments the same authority may not be required. Rather delegated authority may be dynamic and not based on role based access control or other static parameters.

It should be appreciated that the management module may utilize publicly accessible application programming interfaces APIs to facilitate delegate registration for managing accounts and associated devices. It should also be appreciated that the owner or account holder of a personal user account and associated device may have power to terminate or revoke delegate authority. As a result management module may provide dynamic account and device management without forfeiting end user control.

By providing dynamic account authority for delegated scope of control over software and device management managing personal user devices and monitoring data communicated using these devices within a corporate setting may become much easier. Allowing multiple management systems to have authority to manage and monitor the same personal user device dynamically may allow business entities or families an attractive way to integrate use of personal user devices while still maintaining sufficient degree of control.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. For example management module may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS OS X UNIX Linux or another operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for providing dynamic account and device management that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

Device and account management module may manage one or more devices and or one or more accounts. These device and or accounts may include personal user devices brought by a user e.g. employee and used within specific network e.g. corporate network .

Authentication module may manage various delegate authority an entity has over various personal user devices and or personal user accounts. Authentication module may also coordinate with personal user devices and or personal user accounts to ensure delegate authority is valid and up to date.

Communication and network module may provide among other things various features including but not limited to single sign on device detection device communication and or other network or communication related functions and features.

Error logging and reporting module may produce logs reports or other information associated with providing dynamic account and device management.

Each of the modules of the management module may singly or collective perform one or more of the functions required to providing dynamic account and device management as described herein.

At block the management module may identify a user device to be managed using at least the device and account management module or the communication and network module . The user device may be a personal user device associated with a personal user account. The personal user account may comprise at least one of an Internet based account a cloud accessible account and an enterprise compatible account.

In some embodiments identifying the user device to be managed may comprise receiving a request by a user of the user device for network access. In other embodiments identifying the user device to be managed may comprise detecting the user device within range of the network.

At block the management module may transmit a request for delegate authority to manage the user device using at least the authentication module or the communication and network module . In some embodiments the request for delegate authority may comprise at least one of an email a text message an instant message a phone call a voicemail a website a uniform resource locator URL link and a menu window.

At block the management module may receive delegate authority to manage the user device using at least the authentication module or the communication and network module . The delegate authority may be granted or revoked by a primary accountholder of via the personal user account.

At block the management module may provide network access to the user device using at least the communication and network module . In some embodiments the management module may manage the user device and monitor data communicated to and from the user device using at least the device and account management module . Network access may comprise network access to at least one of a corporate network enterprise network residential network and private network.

At block the management module may provide identity of the user device to be managed using at least the device and account management module or the communication and network module . In some embodiments providing identity of the user device to be managed may comprise receiving a request by a user of the user device for network access. In other embodiments providing identity of the user device to be managed may comprise detecting the user device within range of the network.

The user device may be a personal user device associated with a personal user account. The personal user account may comprise at least one of an Internet based account a cloud accessible account and an enterprise compatible account.

At block the management module may receive a request for delegate authority by an entity to manage a user device using at least the authentication module or the communication and network module . In some embodiments the request for delegate authority may comprise at least one of an email a text message an instant message a phone call a voicemail a website a uniform resource locator URL link and a menu window.

At block the management module may transmit information required to provide delegate authority to manage the user device using at least the authentication module or the communication and network module . The information required to provide delegate authority may comprise at least primary account holder identity information primary account holder verification information and delegate authority selection. It should be appreciated that the delegate authority may be granted or revoked by a primary accountholder of via the personal user account.

At block the management module may receive network access at the user device using at least the communication and network module . In some embodiments receive network access at the user device also comprises the management module managing the user device and monitoring data communicated to and from the user device using at least the device and account management module . Network access may comprise network access to at least one of a corporate network enterprise network residential network and private network.

At this point it should be noted that providing dynamic account and device management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above typically involves the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a management module or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with providing dynamic account and device management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with providing dynamic account and device management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

