---

title: Systems and methods for providing a map of an enterprise system
abstract: An exemplary system and method for providing a map of an enterprise system is provided. The method comprises accessing data describing an element from one or more sources. One or more objects are associated with the element. At least one relationship is identified between the one or more objects. A map is then generated of an enterprise system comprised of the one or more objects based on the at least one identified relationship.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700581&OS=08700581&RS=08700581
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08700581
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120224
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 512 880 filed Aug. 29 2006 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 505 665 filed on Aug. 16 2006 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR UTILIZING ORGANIZATION SPECIFIC CLASSIFICATION CODES and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 505 537 filed Aug. 16 2006 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR UTILIZING AN ENTERPRISE MAP TO DETERMINE AFFECTED ENTITIES which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to enterprise system management and more particularly to systems and methods for providing a map of an enterprise system.

Conventionally information retrieval is accomplished by keyword searches author searches date searches and so forth. If a specific document is sought very specific parameters may be input into a system that maintains documents in order to locate the specific document sought. In an enterprise system the abundant number of documents and document storage locations can make document searching and retrieval particularly challenging.

Disadvantageously a user searching for the specific document in an enterprise system does not have knowledge of some or all of these specific parameters. For example if a user wants to locate documents associated with a particular tax audit various authors dates keywords and so forth may be associated with a set of documents that satisfy the particular documents sought. Accordingly the user may enter search parameters that will most likely return a set of documents the user may sift through in order to manually locate the specific documents that will satisfy the documents associated with the particular tax audit for instance. Searching through all the documents or a large sub set of documents in the enterprise system is often time consuming and inefficient.

Traditional records management systems allow a record administrator to select a class or classes of records and a date range solely for identifying data stored within the particular records management system. Disadvantageously these records management systems do not allow identification of employees organizations other repositories or systems because there is no known relationship between them. The identification of a class or classes of records captures data and evidence for the identified classes of records and may not take into consideration the people associated with the records.

Conventionally individuals manually determine the affected and involved people in a matter. There is typically no purpose built application to perform this determination. Instead the determination is usually a manual process using interviews research through employee directories and organizational charts and so forth.

Further various systems may delete the documents over time. Thus a user may not be able to locate the documents pertinent to a search request if some or all of the documents have been deleted.

Exemplary systems and methods for providing a map of an enterprise system are provided. According to one method data describing an element is accessed from one or more sources. One or more objects are associated with the element. At least one relationship is identified between the one or more objects.

A map is then generated of an enterprise system based on the at least one relationship. According to some embodiments users are allowed to make updates to the map. The map may be generated based on the updates. The updates to the map may be tracked in order to preserve a record of changes according to some embodiments. In further embodiments one or more historical versions of the map may be stored and subsequently provided for allowing the users to search for past versions of the one or more objects.

The users are allowed to search for the one or more objects utilizing the map. The data describing the element may comprise metadata according to some embodiments. The one or more objects may be accessed based on data describing the one or more objects and or based on the at least one relationship between the objects Annotations may be added to the map according to some embodiments. These annotations may be added by the users for example. Alternatively an application within the enterprise system can provide the annotations. According to one embodiment the annotations comprise legal holds.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a map of an enterprise system which comprises objects representing various elements comprising the enterprise system attributes of the elements and relationships between the elements. The elements of the enterprise system include repositories systems people organizations information and other physical or logical elements involved in the storage management manipulation authorship ownership retention disposal preservation production and organization of data as well as instances or classes of data information documents files and records.

The map is generated updated and or maintained by a map engine associated with the enterprise system. The map engine accesses or is provided data from a multiplicity of sources describing elements of the enterprise system and from this data the map engine creates objects and relationships representing the elements and their relationships within the enterprise system.

The map may be utilized to search for locate organize and access physical and logical elements of the enterprise system based upon the objects and relationships in the map which represent the elements. Exemplary uses of the map include the preservation and production processes for legal and investigatory matters support of electronic data discovery processes information and data retention management and other policy based information management processes. The map may be utilized to access attributes of and relationships between objects in the map. In addition the map may be utilized for organizing physical and electronic data located in various locations and for allowing users to provide annotations such as holds to the map and or the data represented by the map.

Turning now to a schematic diagram of an exemplary environment for providing a map of an enterprise system is illustrated. The environment comprises at least one user coupled via a network to an enterprise system . Any type of network may be utilized to couple the user to the enterprise system such as a wide area network a local area network or a peer to peer network. Alternatively the user can couple to the enterprise system directly. In some embodiments more than one network and or more than one type of network may be utilized to allow the components of the environment to communication with each other.

Any number of users may be present in the environment. The user is an individual accessing or utilizing the map in order to perform some action to or with an object within the map or an element associated with the enterprise system which is represented by the object. In exemplary embodiments the element comprises repositories people organizations information types classification codes documents or files. Alternatively the element may comprise other data that is storable such as for example audio video streaming media structured database records paper documents or e mail communications.

A device associated with the user may comprise a business application which performs actions related to the map. For example the business application may interpret the map update the map publish annotations into the map create an execute workflows based upon the contents of the map or search and retrieve data in the enterprise system by utilizing the map. Any type of business application may be provided. The user may access the business application residing in the enterprise system according to an alternative embodiment.

Various embodiments may be utilized in any type of enterprise system . For example the enterprise system may comprise any number of servers client devices and repositories located physically or electronically anywhere. Repositories may comprise both physical and electronic storage media including warehouses filing cabinets hard drives and other paper physical or digital media storage device. The enterprise system may include various types of data in various mediums such as documents text structured database records audio and video media and so forth. The enterprise system may also include data about documents stored in yet another system such as architecture of a records management system and paper documents stored in a warehouse. In addition the enterprise system may include people organizations information types classification codes and other elements involved in the storage management manipulation authorship ownership retention disposal preservation production and organization of data. As discussed herein an element is a part of the enterprise system such as a file a person a classification code and so forth. One or more objects represent elements characteristics associated with the elements inter element relationships and so forth.

The exemplary map engine provides a map comprising a structure that organizes the elements associated with and or stored within the enterprise system . The map engine utilizes information types organizations storage locations people and other objects and their relationships as will be discussed in more detail in connection with to provide an overall map structure that may be used to derive relationships between the elements such as people repositories information types classification codes and organizations as discussed herein. Accordingly the user can utilize a map generated by the map engine in order to for example navigate search retrieve update or annotate the objects within the map or to act directly upon the elements. The map engine is coupled to the enterprise system or may otherwise be included as part of the enterprise system according to some embodiments. According to some embodiments the user directly interacts with the map engine via the network .

Although the user may not directly interact with the map in some embodiments the user can access objects and relationships in the map or the data in the enterprise system via the map by requesting objects relationships or data via a user interface providing updates to objects relationships or data providing annotations upon objects and so forth. In exemplary embodiments the user can perform a search for elements and the map engine then accesses objects that represent the elements of the enterprise system discussed in further detail herein . The objects identify the elements comprising the enterprise system and their relationship with each other. In an alternative embodiment the map may be displayed to the user so the user can directly interact with the map.

The map provided by the map engine may comprise a centralized map. The centralized map contains a map structure for all of the elements represented by objects relationships and annotations. Remote systems e.g. outside of the enterprise system may be accessed to retrieve the data or updates to the data describing the elements.

In an alternative embodiment the map may be segmented into a top level map and at least one set of sub maps as discussed in association with . This segmented map structure may be referred to as a federated map. In other words the map may be stored managed or instantiated in a centralized manner. Alternatively the map can be factored into sub maps that are stored managed or instantiated in a distributed set of systems. The map comprises a single cohesive map that may optionally be implemented in one or more systems.

In one example the user can use the map to search for one or more documents related to a contract with Company A for litigation purposes. The user can request that a hold annotation be placed on the one or more documents related to the litigation so that the one or more documents are preserved for the litigation purpose. Accordingly the map is annotated with the hold requested by the user . As discussed herein the user can request the hold annotation via the business application .

Referring now to a schematic diagram of an exemplary map engine is shown. In some embodiments some of the components of the map engine are located at a device e.g. computing device associated with the user and operate within the device to provide functionalities described below. In other embodiments the map engine is completely located at the device associated with the user . In yet other embodiments the map engine is completely separate from the device of the user .

A handler module is configured to access data describing the elements from various sources of the enterprise system such as repositories directories applications the Internet and or third party repositories. In one embodiment the handler module is a crawler configured to crawl databases for updates to the data describing the elements of the enterprise system e.g. data and meta data about stored in external systems or map objects to be used to create or update map objects and relationships.

A relationship identifier module reviews the data accessed by the handler module and associates an object with the element. The relationship identifier module can also identify relationships between one or more of the objects that describe the elements. The relationship identifier module may also review the current contents of the map when identifying relationships. Objects may be associated with an element using a natural organization of data describing elements in the enterprise system using pre programmed rules or configurations describing preferred object element associations or using data or meta data stored in the enterprise system . For example data describing a person e.g. employee contractor or other person associated with an enterprise such as the person s name email address employee identifier and mailing address may be used to create a person object. Similarly data describing the attributes of a business organization may be associated with an organization object in the map. The relationships may be based on such objects as organization author and repository for example. In exemplary embodiments the structure of the map is based on the relationships between these objects. The relationships may be identified based on department authorship roles keywords metadata and or any other data. For example a relationship between a document and a person may indicate that the document was written by John Doe from the accounting department or a relationship between two people may indicate that the one person works for John Doe from the accounting department. The various relationships will be discussed in more detail in connection with . According to exemplary embodiments the map identifies the objects and inter object relationships within the enterprise system . The map describes the objects such as people documents organizations or repositories and so forth stored in the one or more repositories associated with the enterprise system using data describing the elements and relationships.

In some embodiments the relationship may be specified according to an order. For example the element may be defined as a base element while another element comprising the particular relationship is defined as a second element. Thus the second element is related to the base element because for example the second element and the base element are associated with a same department. Accordingly map relationships between two objects describe each of the base element and the second element in the map for instance where both elements are represented by objects. In some embodiments a name a type or a set of properties may be assigned to the relationship.

According to some embodiments the map provides data about various types of relationships via the map objects and relationships between the map objects which may be searched by the user in order to locate the data that corresponds with the map objects as discussed herein. For example a search may request documents within a specific repository the specific repository defining the relationship between the documents within the specific repository or the search may request a person or an organization associated with a litigation case. Any type of relationship between the objects representing the elements may be defined.

In exemplary embodiments a classification code comprises an element and is represented by an object in the map. The classification code may comprise for example an organization specific classification code OSCC . The OSCC comprises an information type or class and an organization identifier assigned to the element. In further embodiments the OSCC comprises policies associated with the object which may indicate the repository that stores the element and a records manager. OSCC generation and utilization is discussed further in association with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 505 665 filed on Aug. 16 2006 and entitled System and Method for Utilizing Organization Specific Classification Codes which is herein incorporated by reference.

In exemplary embodiments an annotation module is provided for adding modifying or deleting annotations associated with the map and or the objects contained within the map the objects representing elements within the enterprise system . For example the user may discover a set of documents from a search which the enterprise system and or the map engine perform for the user utilizing the map. The user may then annotate the set of documents with a legal hold. The legal hold annotation is then added to the map by the map engine so that the set of documents can no longer be modified or deleted thus preserving the set of documents. According to some embodiments the legal hold annotation comprises an alert to one or more users and or to the enterprise system that the set of documents should not be deleted or modified. The legal hold annotation may also indicate that the set of documents should be collected or may indicate an order for preservation of the set of documents for example. Any type of annotation can be added modified or deleted. For example the map may be annotated with policy data disposal date data version data and so forth. As discussed herein the objects associated with the map may be utilized to describe the elements and or annotations to the map.

A communications interface module may also be provided. The communications interface module is utilized for allowing data to be exchanged between the user and the map engine . Any type of communications interface module may be provided. The communications interface module may be utilized to search and or access the one or more objects based on metadata associated with the elements based on the relationships between the objects and so forth. Accessing the objects may include searching the objects according to some embodiments.

In exemplary embodiments the communications interface module comprises an application programming interface API configured to allow access to the map. The business application calls the API to perform some function with the map such as accessing objects and relationships within the map or providing additions deletions or modifications to the map e.g. annotations to the map objects . The business application can also communicate a search request from the user . Using the API the business application traverses the map to identify one or more objects that represent the elements that matches the search request.

The handler module can then retrieve the elements or data describing the elements identified by the one or more objects. In exemplary embodiments the handler module is the interface to the data comprising the enterprise system . According to exemplary embodiments the map represents a topology or relationships between people systems and documents that comprise the objects within the enterprise system such as the objects relevant to a discovery process. In some embodiments the map may directly identify data. According to other embodiments the map includes data that identifies a group persons and or repositories e.g. elements rather than specific information associated with the group persons and or the repositories for example.

According to alternative embodiments the map can identify the elements comprising the enterprise system via the objects in various manners such as by location type person organization or classification code. For example an object A indicates to the handler module where the data that correlates with the object A is located in the databases or other storage associated with the enterprise system . Accordingly the handler module can retrieve the particular object representing one or more elements within the enterprise system that correlates with the object A from the databases or other storage.

The object retrieved by the handler module can be returned to the user via the business application . The relationships between objects that comprise the structure of the map are discussed in further detail in associated with .

A user interface module is configured to allow the user to access review read query and edit the map. In some embodiments the map may be often accessed and modified during a course of a litigation matter e.g. a new information repository may be discovered and entered into the map by legal staff . In some embodiments the user interface module may comprise the business application e.g. business application that performs actions related to the map e.g. interact with a litigation management engine to derive a list of people and systems affected by a litigation matter . In some embodiments the user interface module may be optional.

A map storage medium may be provided for storing the map. Alternatively the map may be stored in a storage medium within the enterprise system or in any other storage medium. More than one storage medium may be provided for storing the map. The map storage medium may store different versions of the map as the map changes according to time annotations and other updates for example. Older versions of the map may be useful to provide a historical view of the map and its evolution over time. In alternative embodiments the map may be stored in a database within the enterprise system or in a database located outside of the map engine but coupled thereto. In further embodiments the map is not stored but is generated wherever it is needed.

An exemplary map generator utilizes objects that represent the elements comprising the enterprise system and any other data retrieved about the enterprise system to construct the map structure discussed herein. The map is utilized by the map engine to navigate organize and maintain for example the elements comprising the enterprise system . The structure comprising the map can be generated by utilizing the relationships identified by the relationship identifier to provide an overview of the enterprise system . The user can then search for the data using the map via the GUI as discussed herein. Thus the map can provide organized insight into the elements included in the enterprise system and indicate relationships between the objects that describe the elements. For example the map may comprise a map inclusive of litigation relevant objects e.g. representing people so that preservation production of data may be performed efficiently and effectively with a high degree of integrity and minimal redundant effort.

The generation of the map by the map generator may be automated. For example the map generator may generate or update the map each time an annotation or an update is received. Alternatively the map generator may generate or update the map according to predetermined time intervals. As discussed herein the map storage medium can store versions of the map so previous structures of the enterprise system can be accessed as historical maps as discussed herein. Historical versions of the map and annotations may be preserved for future use enabling retrospective views of the map.

Although shows various components comprising the exemplary map engine fewer or more components may comprise the map engine and still fall within the scope of various embodiments.

An organization object includes information about a business unit or other group of people. As shown organizations may be hierarchically organized. Any type of organization object may be utilized. For example the organization object may include a name of the organization a parent organization persons in the organization repositories or storage mediums utilized by the organization geography associated with the organization organization locations accounting codes and so forth. One or more organizations may be represented by the organization object and the one or more organizations may be designated according to a hierarchical structure such as a parent organization.

A person object represents an individual with a role within the organization. For example the person object may include an employee in the organization. The person object may describe elements by a name contact information role in the organization relationship with other persons organizational affiliations repository affiliations responsibilities job title and so forth. The person object may be related to the organization object by virtue of a MemberOf relationship which indicates that each person is a member of one or more organizations. For example if a person works at a NY office of an investment bank the user i.e. person object is affiliated with the NY office i.e. organization object .

A repository object represents storage locations. The repository object may include any electronic or non electronic information repositories such as a warehouse a file server or any other storage mediums. The repository object may include name system type and details physical location network location access methods stewards i.e. the persons and the person object responsible the organizations that use the repository information types stored in the repository and so forth. Accordingly the repository object has a relationship with the other objects shown in .

The map may also be stored in the repository associated with a repository object . The repository may include the map storage medium discussed in . More than one repository may be provided as discussed herein. When the user annotates the map the maps stored in the repository and or the map storage medium are updated. According to an alternative embodiment a different version of the map is maintained for each of the users that provide annotations modifications updates and so forth to the map.

A document object represents information about documents papers text files metadata and item of information stored in a repository. The information represented by the document object is related to the repository object by being stored in the repository identified by the repository object .

An OSCC object is a classification code assigned to the element associated with the document object . The OSCC object may indicate information type location in the repository for the information policy information such as a records manager and so forth. Once the OSCC object is assigned to the item of information from the document object the classification may be stored in the repository associated with the repository object . Each classification may be associated with one or more persons responsible for managing the information assigned the specific classification. Thus the person object may be related to the OSCC object .

In exemplary embodiments an element described by data comprising the document object is related to the OSCC object by a hierarchical taxonomy of types. In other words the information represented by the document object may include OSCC data and be organized according to the OSCC data.

An information type object utilizes the OSCC object classification and the data describing the element from the document object to classify a type of the data. The data or the elements may be organized as a hierarchical taxonomy for example utilizing the information type. The information type object includes name identifiers such as record keeping codes parent type repository affiliations i.e. default location for the information organization affiliations and so forth. A data type or document may optionally be associated with one or more repositories via the repository object discussed herein. Accordingly the information type object is related to the repository object and to the OSCC object .

The map engine utilizes the relationships between the various objects described in to generate the map. Although specifies the relationship between the various objects and the various objects that may have specified relationships any type of relationships may be identified between any of the objects. Further as discussed herein the objects may describe relationships between the elements comprising the enterprise system the elements themselves and so forth.

As discussed herein the business application may utilize the map to identify the objects that satisfy the search or to access data describing the element represented in the object. The elements that correspond to those objects are then retrieved by for example the handler module or any other retrieval mechanisms from the enterprise system such as databases repositories or any other data sources comprising the enterprise system . Although shows various relations between various objects that represent the elements in the enterprise system further embodiments may comprise other objects and or relationships between the objects and still fall within the scope of various embodiments.

For example a sub map X may be coupled to a repository A and a sub map Y may be coupled to a repository B . Thus the sub map X and the sub map Y identify data stored in the repository A and the repository B respectively. A record management system may optionally be associated with each of the sub map X and the sub map Y the record management systems configured to generate the sub map X and the sub map Y and to perform any other functions. The records management systems may include information about records stored in a warehouse or other records repository for example. The records management systems can include an inventory such as box crate number type of information within the box crate and so forth. Any type of system may be provided for allocating functions to one or more sub maps such as the sub map X the sub map Y and or any other sub map.

A connector may be provided for retrieving data to update the top level map . The connector may be coupled to a repository e.g. repository C storing the objects utilized to update the top level map . The connector may comprise a crawler an indexer and so forth. The connector may be utilized to search remote systems for the objects to update the map according to some embodiments. Any type of connector may be provided. Although the sub map X the sub map Y and the connector and respective repositories are illustrated in any number of sub maps connectors and or repositories may be provided and still fall within the scope of various embodiments.

At step one or more objects are associated with the element. As discussed herein the one or more objects may represent data types repositories where data is stored people and so forth. The one or more objects may be comprised of data that describes the element such as the name of a person or the type of a file. The one or more objects represent the element. A plurality of elements comprise the enterprise system with each object describing each element. The objects may be accessed and searched based on the data describing the elements the objects and or the relationships between the objects for example.

At step one or more relationships of the one or more objects are identified. As discussed herein the data may be represented by one or more objects. The relationship between the organization object and the document may be identified for example. Each object may have more than one relationship with one or more other objects. The relationships between the one or more objects may comprise a type of relationship or a responsibility for example. Any type of relationship may be identified as discussed herein. The one or more objects may also describe relationships between the elements.

At step a map of an enterprise system comprised of the one or more objects is generated based on the at least one relationship. As discussed herein the map of the enterprise system comprises a structure of objects that are associated with the data describing the elements. The business application can then utilize the structure i.e. the map to locate the data or the elements desired.

For example the enterprise system and the elements comprising the enterprise system can be represented by the map. The map indicates the relationships between the objects associated with the data such as documents people organizations repositories etc. Further because the map represents relationships between the one or more objects the elements and or data comprising the enterprise system can be preserved annotated and better searched for example. As discussed herein for instance the map may indicate where documents including a specific code i.e. OSCC are stored.

As discussed herein the one or more users may be allowed to search for the elements utilizing the map. As discussed herein the one or more users such as the user discussed in can enter search terms or perform searches via the GUI or the business application . The map is then searched according to the search terms entered.

The map can identify classify organize and maintain for example the elements comprising the enterprise system as discussed herein. The map may be generated based on updates to the map associated with annotations or any other modifications. According to alternative embodiments a different map is generated according to different search parameters. For example if the user wants information related to Sarbanes Oxley policies the map may be generated with the objects related to Sarbanes Oxley policies according to policy type while if the user wants the information by a specific author the map may be generated with the objects according to names of persons in the organization. Accordingly information sought by the user may be more easily identified and retrieved according to the organization of the map.

Referring now to a flow diagram of an exemplary process for adding annotations to the map is shown. At step data is displayed to one or more users such as the user discussed in . The data may be displayed to the user as a result of a search requested by the user for example. As discussed herein the user can access a GUI at the enterprise system for searching the map over the network or directly.

At step the enterprise system the connector and or any other system or device determines whether any annotations have been made by the user . Alternatively the annotations may be received from an application or another system.

At step the annotations are added to the map and to the map storage medium and or the repository . As discussed herein any type of annotations may be added such as legal holds policy information or any other information. For example disposal policies regarding when documents may be destroyed may be added to the map as an annotation. The annotations may be associated with the map generally or with individual objects or elements such as the objects discussed in . The annotations may include user edits to the objects and or relations between the objects according to some embodiments.

Once the annotations are added to the map at step the updated map is then utilized to perform any further searches by the one or more users at step . For example workflows may be generated based on the annotations and an impact of the annotations on related data and the objects.

As discussed herein according to one embodiment different maps may be utilized to perform searches for different users. If there are no annotations to add to the map the map engine can search and retrieve data utilizing the map at step .

Specifically the map engine can utilize the map such as by traversing the map to identify objects in the map the objects representing the elements stored in the repository or other elements comprising the enterprise system . Because the map includes various relationships between the objects and the elements represented by the map objects the user can request various types of information according to one or more search parameters the user can enter via the GUI. For example the user can request all documents or other data that have the annotation legal hold associated with the documents or other information. Any type of search parameters may be utilized to retrieve the information represented by the map.

Once the objects are searched and retrieved at step the data corresponding to the objects is returned to the one or more users at step . Historical versions of the map may also be provided. Thus the user can search for and receive versions of data represented by the map objects at various points in time. Accordingly different types of annotations may exist in association with the historical versions of the map. For example the user may want to know what information types existed at a point in the past such as which individuals were responsible for data and or systems at a given point in time. The user can access various types of historical data by requesting one or more historical versions of data which the map engine can search for utilizing historical versions of the map.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. For example any of the elements associated with the enterprise map may employ any of the desired functionality set forth hereinabove. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments.

