---

title: Multi-point touch-sensitive sensor user interface using distinct digit identification
abstract: For digit identification on a multi-point touch sensitive sensor, an assignment module assigns a digit identity to each digit of at least two digits in contact with a multi-point touch sensitive sensor during a learning phase. The digit identity includes a distinct representation of each digit. A receiving module detects a digit interaction of one or more particular digits of the at least two digits with the multi-point touch-sensitive sensor. A determination module recognizes the assigned digit identity for each particular digit involved in the digit interaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09035891&OS=09035891&RS=09035891
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09035891
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120320
---
This is a continuation in part application of and claims priority to patent application Ser. No. 12 122 305 entitled System and Apparatus for a Multi Point Touch Sensitive Sensor User Interface Using Distinct Digit Identification and filed on May 16 2008 for Lisa A. Seacat which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates to multi point touch sensitive sensors. Particularly the invention relates to a multi point touch sensitive sensor user interface using distinct digit identification.

As electronic devices have proliferated the number of ways to interact with those devices has also proliferated. One such user interaction tool or user interface is a touch sensitive sensor which can detect touches on its surface. Many such sensors are used in connection with a display or screen allowing a user to interact with onscreen menus or data. These touchscreens are often standard features on such devices as cellphones Personal Digital Assistants PDA s and tablet computers.

While many touch sensitive devices are able to sense only one point of contact multi point touch sensitive sensors can detect multiple simultaneous touches. By allowing more than one contact with the sensor the user is able to exert greater control and better accuracy over the interface of the device

An apparatus for digit identification on a multi point touch sensitive sensor is presented. In one embodiment the apparatus includes a computer readable storage medium storing computer readable program code executable by a processor an assignment module a receiving module and a determination module. In one embodiment the assignment module assigns a digit identity to each digit of at least two digits in contact with a multi point touch sensitive sensor during a learning phase. In a further embodiment the digit identity includes a distinct representation of each digit. In one embodiment the receiving module detects a digit interaction of one or more particular digits of the at least two digits with the multi point touch sensitive sensor. In one embodiment the determination module recognizes the assigned digit identity for each particular digit involved in the digit interaction. A method and a computer program product also perform the functions of the apparatus.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment but mean one or more but not all embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise. An enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive and or mutually inclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the also refer to one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments.

These features and advantages of the embodiments will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of embodiments as set forth hereinafter. As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method and or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of computer readable program code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of computer readable program code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. Where a module or portions of a module are implemented in software the computer readable program code may be stored and or propagated on in one or more computer readable medium s .

The computer readable medium may be a tangible computer readable storage medium storing the computer readable program code. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared holographic micromechanical or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

More specific examples of the computer readable storage medium may include but are not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disc DVD an optical storage device a magnetic storage device a holographic storage medium a micromechanical storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain and or store computer readable program code for use by and or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer readable medium may also be a computer readable signal medium. A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electrical electro magnetic magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport computer readable program code for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Computer readable program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireline optical fiber Radio Frequency RF or the like or any suitable combination of the foregoing

In one embodiment the computer readable medium may comprise a combination of one or more computer readable storage mediums and one or more computer readable signal mediums. For example computer readable program code may be both propagated as an electro magnetic signal through a fiber optic cable for execution by a processor and stored on RAM storage device for execution by the processor.

Computer readable program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C PHP or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The computer program product may be shared simultaneously serving multiple customers in a flexible automated fashion. The computer program product may be standardized requiring little customization and scalable providing capacity on demand in a pay as you go model.

The computer program product may be stored on a shared file system accessible from one or more servers. The computer program product may be executed via transactions that contain data and server processing requests that use Central Processor Unit CPU units on the accessed server. CPU units may be units of time such as minutes seconds hours on the central processor of the server. Additionally the accessed server may make requests of other servers that require CPU units. CPU units are an example that represents but one measurement of use. Other measurements of use include but are not limited to network bandwidth memory usage storage usage packet transfers complete transactions etc.

When multiple customers use the same computer program product via shared execution transactions are differentiated by the parameters included in the transactions that identify the unique customer and the type of service for that customer. All of the CPU units and other measurements of use that are used for the services for each customer are recorded. When the number of transactions to any one server reaches a number that begins to affect the performance of that server other servers are accessed to increase the capacity and to share the workload Likewise when other measurements of use such as network bandwidth memory usage storage usage etc. approach a capacity so as to affect performance additional network bandwidth memory usage storage etc. are added to share the workload.

The measurements of use used for each service and customer are sent to a collecting server that sums the measurements of use for each customer for each service that was processed anywhere in the network of servers that provide the shared execution of the computer program product. The summed measurements of use units are periodically multiplied by unit costs and the resulting total computer program product service costs are alternatively sent to the customer and or indicated on a web site accessed by the customer which then remits payment to the service provider.

In one embodiment the service provider requests payment directly from a customer account at a banking or financial institution. In another embodiment if the service provider is also a customer of the customer that uses the computer program product the payment owed to the service provider is reconciled to the payment owed by the service provider to minimize the transfer of payments.

The computer program product may be integrated into a client server and network environment by providing for the computer program product to coexist with applications operating systems and network operating systems software and then installing the computer program product on the clients and servers in the environment where the computer program product will function.

In one embodiment software is identified on the clients and servers including the network operating system where the computer program product will be deployed that are required by the computer program product or that work in conjunction with the computer program product. This includes the network operating system that is software that enhances a basic operating system by adding networking features.

In one embodiment software applications and version numbers are identified and compared to the list of software applications and version numbers that have been tested to work with the computer program product. Those software applications that are missing or that do not match the correct version will be upgraded with the correct version numbers. Program instructions that pass parameters from the computer program product to the software applications will be checked to ensure the parameter lists match the parameter lists required by the computer program product. Conversely parameters passed by the software applications to the computer program product will be checked to ensure the parameters match the parameters required by the computer program product. The client and server operating systems including the network operating systems will be identified and compared to the list of operating systems version numbers and network software that have been tested to work with the computer program product. Those operating systems version numbers and network software that do not match the list of tested operating systems and version numbers will be upgraded on the clients and servers to the required level.

In response to determining that the software where the computer program product is to be deployed is at the correct version level that has been tested to work with the computer program product the integration is completed by installing the computer program product on the clients and servers.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of an embodiment.

Aspects of the embodiments are described below with reference to schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams of methods apparatuses systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program code. The computer readable program code may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer sequencer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams block or blocks.

The computer readable program code may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams block or blocks.

The computer readable program code may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the program code which executed on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of apparatuses systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the schematic flowchart diagrams and or schematic block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions of the program code for implementing the specified logical function s .

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the Figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more blocks or portions thereof of the illustrated Figures.

Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flowchart and or block diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding embodiments. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the depicted embodiment. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted embodiment. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer readable program code.

The sensor may be flat such as that used in computer displays or form fitted as needed. Furthermore the embedded sensor may be similar to the multi point touch sensitive sensors available from Perceptive Pixel Inc of New York N.Y. Referring also to in one embodiment the display and the sensor are embodied in a tablet slate or pad computer a personal desktop assistant PDA an e Book reader a mobile phone a Smartphone and the like. Although in the embodiment depicted in the sensor is embedded in the display in other embodiments the sensor may be integrated with any suitable device including but not limited to a steering wheel a keyboard a computer mouse a video game control a portable device display an automobile and an electric appliance interface.

The display may be embodied as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD screen a plasma screen a projector projecting an image and the like. In one embodiment the display is a touchscreen display receiving touch input from a user on a display surface. The display in one embodiment communicates with and or is controlled by a computing device.

Referring back to the digit identity apparatus may provide and or be integrated with a user interface that assigns digit identities to digits in contact with the sensor detects a digit interaction involving those digits and recognizes the assigned digit identities for the digits involved in the digit interaction. In certain embodiments the digit identity apparatus initiates one or more functions in response to recognizing the assigned digit identities.

In the depicted embodiment the digit identity apparatus assigns a user s fingers distinct digit identities . Fingers with the digit identity and have made contact with the sensor . Furthermore in addition to fingers the digits used for the sensor may include but not be limited to knuckles toes a nose an ear a tongue arms legs elbows knees and a head. Furthermore in certain embodiments the digit may also be any object capable of being uniquely identified such as a pen pencil presentation pointer and so forth.

In one embodiment the digit identity apparatus assigns a digit identity to two or more digits based on characteristics of the digits and or by the relationship between the digits . This relationship may be determined by the association between the digits as registered by the multi point touch sensitive sensor during an initialization or a learning phase. The association may be based on the spatial position of one digit in relation to another on the sensor surface as digit is positioned in relation to digit . Therefore when digit and digit are in contact with the sensor simultaneously based on their position the digit identity apparatus determines that one finger corresponds with digit identity and the other finger corresponds to digit identity . The digit identity apparatus may then use these digit identities to determine functions to initiate. For example digit may be preassigned to carry out a certain function such as launch an email application whenever digit makes contact with the sensor .

The assignment module in one embodiment assigns digit identities to digits in contact with the sensor . In one embodiment the assignment module assigns a digit identity to each digit of at least two digits in contact with the sensor . In one embodiment the assignment module assigns the digit identities during a learning phase or user interface initialization. This initialization or learning phase may include configuring the sensor by assigning initial digit identities. A digit identity may include a distinct representation of a digit. The assignment module may assign a distinct digit identity to each digit . For example a user who has placed his her hands on the sensor may have each of his her fingers assigned a distinct digit identity. This digit identity may be represented as a number an alpha numeric character a combination of numbers and characters a variable or any other distinct representation. Specifically in one embodiment each digit is assigned an alphanumeric value. The digit identity may uniquely identify the digit whenever the digit makes contact with the sensor as described below.

In one embodiment the assignment module assigns a digit identity based on unique characteristics of the digit . The assignment module may assign a digit identity based on an amount of pressure applied by the digit as different digits may apply varying amounts of pressure. For example a thumb would apply a different amount of pressure than an index finger . Consequently the assignment module may assign a distinct digit identity to the thumb corresponding to the particular amount of pressure the thumb applies with similar terms of assignment for the index finger . As a result whenever the digit makes contact with the sensor applying the amount of pressure corresponding to a thumb the apparatus may recognize the distinct digit identity of the thumb . In one embodiment the assignment module assigns a digit identity based on a contact area of the digit such as a portion position and or location of the contact point of the digit on the sensor .

In one embodiment the assignment module assigns a digit identity for a particular digit based on a number of digit contact points on one or more sides of the particular digit. Specifically the number of contact points to the right and left of a given contact point can be used to determine which digit made contact. If there is a single contact point to the left of a digit contact point and three contact points to the right then the apparatus may determine that the digit being pressed is the second digit from the left. Furthermore the size and or shape of a digit contact point may also be used. A thumb has a different contact size and shape than an index finger . Furthermore a nose has a different contact size and shape than an elbow. If fingers are used as the digits and if the sensor is configured to scan a fingerprint the fingerprint of the fingers may be used to uniquely identify the digit. In one embodiment the assignment module assigns a digit identity for each digit by an interaction between two or more digits. The interaction may include comparative movement between the two or more digits e.g. a movement pattern of a thumb in comparison with a forefinger comparative pressure between two or more digits e.g. a relative pressure of one digit compared to another spacing between the two or more digits and or the like. In one embodiment the assignment module assigns a digit identity based on a plurality of digit characteristics such as two or more of the characteristics described above e.g. pressure of a digit size of a digit and the like .

In one embodiment the assignment module works with and or coordinates with a relationship module to assign digit identities. Specifically in one embodiment the relationship module determines a relationship between at least two digits based on an association between the digits as registered by and signaled from the sensor . As mentioned above the association may be based on distance between digits and or the spatial position of one digit in relation to another digit on the sensor . In addition the association may be based on the area of the sensor in which the digit has made contact. For example a user may initialize the user interface by placing a thumb and index finger on the sensor surface. The relationship module determines that two distinct digits have been registered by the sensor by associating the two digits with their approximate location on the sensor and to each other. In one embodiment the assignment module assigns the digit identities based on the relationship determined by the relationship module . In certain embodiments the assignment module assigns a distinct digit identity to each digit recognized by the relationship module .

In one embodiment the assignment module stores each digit identity along with characteristics associated with each digit identity such that the determination module as described below may recognize the assigned digit identities. The assignment module may store the assigned digit identities in a database a flat file and or the like on volatile or non volatile storage of a computing system in communication with the apparatus and or sensor .

The receiving module in one embodiment detects digit interactions with the sensor . In one embodiment the receiving module detects a digit interaction of one or more digits that have been assigned digit identities. A digit interaction may be an interaction of one or more digits with the sensor . This interaction may include contact and or movement of one or more digits on the sensor surface and may be in the form of one or more movements by the digit or one or more contacts from the digit . For example a digit interaction may be a simple press of two fingers on the sensor . Conversely the digit interaction may be a finger swiping across the sensor surface. Any other combination of contact or movements from one or more digits may be used as digit interactions. In one embodiment the receiving module detects a predetermined pattern of a plurality of digit interactions each with one or more particular digits. For example the receiving module may detect digit making contact with the sensor then digit making contact with the sensor then digit making contact with the sensor .

One or more digit interactions may comprise a digit event that is received and or accessed by the receiving module from the sensor . For example in one embodiment the receiving module interfaces with an Application Programming Interface API provided by driver software for a sensor to obtain location coordinates x and y axis coordinates and other characteristics for digit events. In one embodiment the receiving module includes a driver that receives low level signals from the sensor that the receiving module translates into characteristics of digit events and digit interactions. For example the receiving module may generate an interrupt when the sensor is touched and determine characteristics of the touch in response to the interrupt.

In one embodiment the receiving module detects digit interactions with the sensor in a period of time subsequent to the learning phase. For example the assignment module may assign digit identities during the learning phase and the receiving module may detect digit interactions after the learning phase is complete and after digits have been assigned digit identities.

The determination module in one embodiment recognizes digit identities for digits involved in the digit interaction. After the receiving module receives and or accesses the digit interaction and or the digit event the determination module may recognize a digit identity for each digit involved in the digit event digit interaction. For example if a user drags an index finger which has previously been assigned a digit identity of and a thumb which has previously been assigned a digit identity of across a sensor the determination module may determine that digits and have been dragged across the sensor .

In one embodiment the determination module recognizes the assigned digit identities based on similar characteristics of the digits as those used above by the assignment module to assign the digit identities. In certain embodiments the determination module recognizes a digit identity based on at least one of an amount of pressure applied by the digit the number of digit contact points on one or more sides of a digit e.g. to the right and left of a given contact point for a digit the size and shape of a contact point for a digit a contact area of the digit a fingerprint of a digit and or the like.

For example the assignment module may have assigned a particular digit associated with a particular pressure reading with a digit identity of . The determination module may recognize a digit with the particular pressure reading as having a digit identity of . In one embodiment the determination module recognizes the assigned digit identity for a digit by a relative position of a digit contact point in relation to other digit contact points a spatial relationship between digits and or a distance between digits. As described above if there is a single contact point to the left of a digit contact point and three contact points to the right then the determination module may recognize that the digit being pressed is the second digit from the left. In one embodiment the determination module recognizes a digit identity based on plurality of digit characteristics such as two or more of the characteristics described above e.g. pressure of a digit size of a digit and the like .

In one embodiment the determination module recognizes the assigned digit identity for each digit by an interaction between two or more digits. In a further embodiment this interaction corresponds to an interaction used by the assignment module to initially assign the digit identities of the two or more digits. In one embodiment the determination module recognizes a predetermined pattern of a plurality of digit interactions each with one or more particular digits. For example a predetermined pattern may include digit making contact with the sensor then digit then digit and the determination module may recognize this predetermined pattern in response to digit making contact with the sensor then digit making contact with the sensor then digit making contact with the sensor .

In one embodiment the determination module references characteristics for particular assigned digit identities stored by the assignment module and compares characteristics for digits involved in the digit interaction with these stored characteristics. For example in one embodiment the determination module compares an amount of pressure applied by a particular digit with amounts of pressure for various assigned digit identities stored by the assignment module and recognizes the digit identity for the particular digit in response to determining that the amount of pressure associated with the digit identity corresponds to the amount of pressure for the particular digit.

The initiation module in one embodiment initiates a function a digit event function in response to the determination module recognizing the assigned digit identity. In one embodiment the initiation module may initiate the digit event function associated with the determined digit identity and the digit interaction. The digit event function may be assigned to a specific digit identity regardless of the form of the digit interaction. For instance the digit with the identity of may be assigned the digit event to open an internet browser window on a tablet computer display regardless of whether digit makes brief contact with the sensor drags across the sensor or presses and remains on the sensor surface. In one embodiment the initiation module initiates a function in response to a combination of an assigned digit identity and a characteristic of the digit interaction. A characteristic of the digit interaction may include a movement of the digit across the sensor a length of time the digit made contact with the sensor and or the like. For example digit may be assigned to open an internet browser window if digit makes a brief contact with the sensor while a sweep across the sensor surface with digit may cause the browser window to scroll. The user may predefine what digit event functions are implemented with certain digit identities and digit interactions. In one embodiment the initiation module initiates a function in response to a combination of each recognized assigned digit identity. For example the initiation module may initiate a first function in response to a digit interaction with digit but initiate a second distinct function in response to a digit interaction with digits and .

In one embodiment the initiation module initiates a function in response to a combination of each recognized assigned digit identity and a characteristic of the digit interaction. For example the initiation module may initiate a first function in response to digits and sweeping across the sensor but initiate a second distinct function in response to digits and resting on the sensor .

In one embodiment the initiation module initiates a function in response to a pattern of digit identities in one or more digit interactions. Specifically in one embodiment the initiation module initiates a function in response to the determination module recognizing a predetermined pattern of a plurality of digit interactions each with one or more particular digits. For example the initiation module may initiate a function in response to digit making contact with the sensor then digit then digit .

Digit event functions may vary depending on the implementation of the sensor . For example possible digit event functions for an automobile steering wheel with an integrated multi point touch sensitive sensor may include changing a radio station changing the compact disc CD playing in the multi disk player changing the track on the CD dialing a phone number with an attached Bluetooth phone doing math on a calculator changing the volume changing the temperature or picking pre set information such as radio stations. If each of a user s fingers has been assigned the digit identity a user could easily perform math functions having every number combination possible from his fingers . For example a user might press digit 3 which is assigned number and then digit 4 which is assigned number . Both 3 and 4 are added together and a result of 7 is displayed on the multi touch device. In this example the function being performed is the addition function. However this can be generalized to take in the input from one or more digits to perform a defined function.

A volume control of a radio with representing volume levels could be changed by a user s fingers . In addition a keyboard with this user interface may be implemented with each letter assigned to a different digit identity and digit implementation.

The method starts and the assignment module assigns a digit identity to each digit of at least two digits in contact with a multi point touch sensitive sensor during a learning phase. The digit identity may include a distinct representation of each digit. The receiving module detects a digit interaction of one or more particular digits of the at least two digits with the multi point touch sensitive sensor . The determination module recognizes the assigned digit identity for each particular digit involved in the digit interaction and the method ends.

The method starts and the assignment module monitors for contact from two or more digits on a multi point touch sensitive sensor . If the assignment module does not detect contact from two or more digits the assignment module may continue to monitor for contact from two or more digits. If the assignment module detects contact from two or more digits the assignment module assigns a digit identity to a particular digit of the two or more digits. If the assignment module determines that an additional digit has yet to be assigned a digit identity the assignment module assigns a digit identity to the additional digit. The assignment module may assign a digit identity to each of the two or more digits from the detected contact with the sensor . If the assignment module determines that no additional digits of the two or more digits have yet to be assigned a digit identity the receiving module monitors for a digit interaction of one or more digits of the two or more digits.

If the receiving module does not detect a digit interaction the receiving module continues to monitor for a digit interaction. If the receiving module detects a digit interaction of the one or more digits with the sensor the determination module recognizes an assigned digit identity for a particular digit involved in the digit interaction. If the determination module determines that there is an additional digit involved in the digit interaction the determination module recognizes an assigned digit identity for the additional digit. In one embodiment the determination module recognizes assigned digit identities for each digit involved in the digit interaction.

If the determination module determines that each digit from the digit interaction has been assigned a digit identity the initiation module initiates a function based on the recognized assigned digit identities. Then the method ends.

The embodiments may be practiced in other specific forms. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

