---

title: Interfacing with a spatial virtual communication environment
abstract: A spatial layout of zones of a virtual area in a network communication environment is displayed. A user can have a respective presence in each of one or more of the zones. Navigation controls and interaction controls are presented. The navigation controls enable the user to specify where to establish a presence in the virtual area. The interaction controls enable the user to manage interactions with one or more other communicants in the network communication environment. A respective presence of the user is established in each of one or more of the zones on response to input received via the navigation controls. Respective graphical representations of the communicants are depicted in each of the zones where the communicants respectively have presence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09483157&OS=09483157&RS=09483157
owner: Sococo, Inc.
number: 09483157
owner_city: Eugene
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
This application is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 709 filed Jan. 15 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 042 714 filed Apr. 5 2008 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application also relates to the following co pending patent applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 923 629 filed Oct. 24 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 923 634 filed Oct. 24 2007.

When face to face communications are not practical people often rely on one or more technological solutions to meet their communications needs. These solutions typically are designed to simulate one or more aspects of face to face communications. Traditional telephony systems enable voice communications between callers. Instant messaging also referred to as chat communications systems enable users to communicate text messages in real time through instant message computer clients that are interconnected by an instant message server. Some instant messaging systems additionally allow users to be represented in a virtual environment by user controllable graphic objects referred to as avatars . Interactive virtual reality communication systems enable users in remote locations to communicate over multiple real time channels and to interact with each other by manipulating their respective avatars in three dimensional virtual spaces. What are needed are improved systems and methods for interfacing with spatial virtual communication environments.

In one aspect the invention features a method in accordance with which a spatial layout of zones of a virtual area in a network communication environment is displayed. A user can have a respective presence in each of one or more of the zones. Navigation controls and interaction controls are presented. The navigation controls enable the user to specify where to establish a presence in the virtual area. The interaction controls enable the user to manage interactions with one or more other communicants in the network communication environment. A respective presence of the user is established in each of one or more of the zones on response to input received via the navigation controls. Respective graphical representations of the communicants are depicted in each of the zones where the communicants respectively have presence.

The invention also features apparatus operable to implement the inventive methods described above and computer readable media storing computer readable instructions causing a computer to implement the inventive methods described above.

Other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following description including the drawings and the claims.

In the following description like reference numbers are used to identify like elements. Furthermore the drawings are intended to illustrate major features of exemplary embodiments in a diagrammatic manner. The drawings are not intended to depict every feature of actual embodiments nor relative dimensions of the depicted elements and are not drawn to scale.

A communicant is a person who communicates or otherwise interacts with other persons over one or more network connections where the communication or interaction may or may not occur in the context of a virtual area. A user is a communicant who is operating a particular network node that defines a particular perspective for descriptive purposes.

A realtime contact of a user is a communicant or other person who has communicated with the user via a realtime communications platform.

A computer is any machine device or apparatus that processes data according to computer readable instructions that are stored on a computer readable medium either temporarily or permanently. A computer operating system is a software component of a computer system that manages and coordinates the performance of tasks and the sharing of computing and hardware resources. A software application also referred to as software an application computer software a computer application a program and a computer program is a set of instructions that a computer can interpret and execute to perform one or more specific tasks. A computer data file is a block of information that durably stores data for use by a software application.

A database is an organized collection of records that are presented in a standardized format that can be searched by computers. A database may be stored on a single computer readable data storage medium on a single computer or it may be distributed across multiple computer readable data storage media on one or more computers.

A data sink referred to herein simply as a sink is any of a device e.g. a computer part of a device or software that receives data.

A data source referred to herein simply as a source is any of a device e.g. a computer part of a device or software that originates data.

A network node also referred to simply as a node is a junction or connection point in a communications network. Exemplary network nodes include but are not limited to a terminal a computer and a network switch. A server network node is a host computer on a network that responds to requests for information or service. A client network node is a computer on a network that requests information or service from a server. A network connection is a link between two communicating network nodes. The term local network node refers to a network node that currently is the primary subject of discussion. The term remote network node refers to a network node that is connected to a local network node by a network communications link. A connection handle is a pointer or identifier e.g. a uniform resource identifier URI that can be used to establish a network connection with a communicant resource or service on a network node. A network communication can include any type of information e.g. text voice audio video electronic mail message data file motion data stream and data packet that is transmitted or otherwise conveyed from one network node to another network node over a network connection.

A communicant interaction is any type of direct or indirect action or influence between a communicant and another network entity which may include for example another communicant a virtual area or a network service. Exemplary types of communicant interactions include communicants communicating with each other in realtime a communicant entering a virtual area and a communicant requesting access to a resource from a network service.

 Presence refers to the ability and willingness of a networked entity e.g. a communicant service or device to communicate where such willingness affects the ability to detect and obtain information about the state of the entity on a network and the ability to connect to the entity.

A realtime data stream is data that is structured and processed in a continuous flow and is designed to be received with no delay or only imperceptible delay. Realtime data streams include digital representations of voice video user movements facial expressions and other physical phenomena as well as data within the computing environment that may benefit from rapid transmission rapid execution or both rapid transmission and rapid execution including for example avatar movement instructions text chat realtime data feeds e.g. sensor data machine control instructions transaction streams and stock quote information feeds and file transfers.

A virtual area also referred to as an area or a place is a representation of a computer managed space or scene. Virtual areas typically are one dimensional two dimensional or three dimensional representations although in some embodiments a virtual area may correspond to a single point. Oftentimes a virtual area is designed to simulate a physical real world space. For example using a traditional computer monitor a virtual area may be visualized as a two dimensional graphic of a three dimensional computer generated space. However virtual areas do not require an associated visualization to implement switching rules. A virtual area typically refers to an instance of a virtual area schema where the schema defines the structure and contents of a virtual area in terms of variables and the instance defines the structure and contents of a virtual area in terms of values that have been resolved from a particular context.

A virtual area application also referred to as a virtual area specification is a description of a virtual area that is used in creating a virtual environment. The virtual area application typically includes definitions of geometry physics and realtime switching rules that are associated with one or more zones of the virtual area.

A virtual environment is a representation of a computer managed space that includes at least one virtual area and supports realtime communications between communicants.

A zone is a region of a virtual area that is associated with at least one switching rule or governance rule. A switching rule is an instruction that specifies a connection or disconnection of one or more realtime data sources and one or more realtime data sinks subject to one or more conditions precedent. A switching rule controls switching e.g. routing connecting and disconnecting of realtime data streams between network nodes communicating in the context of a virtual area. A governance rule controls a communicant s access to a resource e.g. an area a region of an area or the contents of that area or region the scope of that access and follow on consequences of that access e.g. a requirement that audit records relating to that access must be recorded . A renderable zone is a zone that is associated with a respective visualization.

A position in a virtual area refers to a location of a point or an area or a volume in the virtual area. A point typically is represented by a single set of one dimensional two dimensional or three dimensional coordinates e.g. x y z that define a spot in the virtual area. An area typically is represented by the three dimensional coordinates of three or more coplanar vertices that define a boundary of a closed two dimensional shape in the virtual area. A volume typically is represented by the three dimensional coordinates of four or more non coplanar vertices that define a closed boundary of a three dimensional shape in the virtual area.

A spatial state is an attribute that describes where a user has presence in a virtual area. The spatial state attribute typically has a respective value e.g. a zone ID value for each of the zones in which the user has presence.

A placemark is a stored reference e.g. a hyperlink to a location in a virtual area. A placemark typically can be selected to present a view of the associated location in the virtual area to a user. The verb placemark means the act or operation of creating a placemark.

In the context of a virtual area an object is any type of discrete element in a virtual area that may be usefully treated separately from the geometry of the virtual area. Exemplary objects include doors portals windows view screens and speakerphone. An object typically has attributes or properties that are separate and distinct from the attributes and properties of the virtual area. An avatar is an object that represents a communicant in a virtual area.

The term double click refers to the act or operation of entering or inputting an execution command e.g. double clicking the left computer mouse button or by single clicking a user interface button associated with an execute command e.g. enter zone or view object . The term shift click refers to the act or operation of entering or inputting a selection command e.g. clicking the left computer mouse button while the Shift key of an alphanumeric input device is activated. The term shift double click refers to the act or operation of entering or inputting an execution command while the Shift key of an alphanumeric input device is activated.

As used herein the term includes means includes but not limited to the term including means including but not limited to. The term based on means based at least in part on.

The embodiments that are described herein provide improved systems and methods for navigating and interacting in spatial virtual communication environments. These embodiments provide an interface that includes navigation controls that enable a user to navigate virtual areas and interaction controls that enable the user to interact with other communicants in the virtual areas. The navigation controls allow the user to change his or her focus e.g. the current view of the virtual area or the current zone or zones where the user has presence using a variety of intuitive point and click browsing methods in the context of a hierarchical spatial model of a virtual area. In some embodiments the interface adaptively presents navigation controls and interaction controls that are appropriate to the user s needs in the context of the user s current focus.

In some embodiments the network infrastructure service environment manages sessions of the first and second client nodes in a virtual area in accordance with a virtual area application . The virtual area application is hosted by the virtual area and includes a description of the virtual area . The communications applications operating on the first and second client network nodes present respective views of the virtual area in accordance with data received from the network infrastructure service environment and provide respective interfaces for receiving commands from the communicants. The communicants typically are represented in the virtual area by respective avatars which move about the virtual area in response to commands that are input by the communicants at their respective network nodes. Each communicant s view of the virtual area typically is presented from the perspective of the communicant s avatar which increases the level of immersion experienced by the communicant. Each communicant typically is able to view any part of the virtual area around his or her avatar. In some embodiments the communications applications establish realtime data stream connections between the first and second client network nodes and other network nodes sharing the virtual area based on the positions of the communicants avatars in the virtual area .

The network infrastructure service environment also maintains a relationship database that contains records of interactions between communicants. Each interaction record describes the context of an interaction between a pair of communicants.

The network may include any of a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the internet . The network typically includes a number of different computing platforms and transport facilities that support the transmission of a wide variety of different media types e.g. text voice audio and video between network nodes.

The communications application see typically operates on a client network node that includes software and hardware resources which together with administrative policies user preferences including preferences regarding the exportation of the user s presence and the connection of the user to areas and other users and other settings define a local configuration that influences the administration of realtime connections with other network nodes. The network connections between network nodes may be arranged in a variety of different stream handling topologies including a peer to peer architecture a server mediated architecture and hybrid architectures that combine aspects of peer to peer and server mediated architectures. Exemplary topologies of these types are described in U.S. application Ser. Nos. 11 923 629 and 11 923 634 both of which were filed on Oct. 24 2007.

The network infrastructure service environment typically includes one or more network infrastructure services that cooperate with the communications applications in the process of establishing and administering network connections between the client nodes and other network nodes see . The network infrastructure services may run on a single network node or may be distributed across multiple network nodes. The network infrastructure services typically run on one or more dedicated network nodes e.g. a server computer or a network device that performs one or more edge services such as routing and switching . In some embodiments however one or more of the network infrastructure services run on at least one of the communicants network nodes. Among the network infrastructure services that are included in the exemplary embodiment of the network infrastructure service environment are an account service a security service an area service a rendezvous service and an interaction service.

The account service manages communicant accounts for the virtual environment. The account service also manages the creation and issuance of authentication tokens that can be used by client network nodes to authenticate themselves to any of the network infrastructure services.

The security service controls communicants access to the assets and other resources of the virtual environment. The access control method implemented by the security service typically is based on one or more of capabilities where access is granted to entities having proper capabilities or permissions and an access control list where access is granted to entities having identities that are on the list . After a particular communicant has been granted access to a resource that communicant typically uses the functionality provided by the other network infrastructure services to interact in the network communications environment .

The area service administers virtual areas. In some embodiments the area service remotely configures the communications applications operating on the first and second client network nodes in accordance with the virtual area application subject to a set of constraints see . The constraints typically include controls on access to the virtual area. The access controls typically are based on one or more of capabilities where access is granted to communicants or client nodes having proper capabilities or permissions and an access control list where access is granted to communicants or client nodes having identities that are on the list .

The area service also manages network connections that are associated with the virtual area subject to the capabilities of the requesting entities maintains global state information for the virtual area and serves as a data server for the client network nodes participating in a shared communication session in a context defined by the virtual area . The global state information includes a list of all the objects that are in the virtual area and their respective locations in the virtual area. The area service sends instructions that configure the client network nodes. The area service also registers and transmits initialization information to other client network nodes that request to join the communication session. In this process the area service may transmit to each joining client network node a list of components e.g. plugins that are needed to render the virtual area on the client network node in accordance with the virtual area application . The area service also ensures that the client network nodes can synchronize to a global state if a communications fault occurs. The area service typically manages communicant interactions with virtual areas via governance rules that are associated with the virtual areas.

The rendezvous service manages the collection storage and distribution of presence information and provides mechanisms for network nodes to communicate with one another e.g. by managing the distribution of connection handles subject to the capabilities of the requesting entities. The rendezvous service typically stores the presence information in a presence database. The rendezvous service typically manages communicant interactions with each other via communicant privacy preferences.

The interaction service maintains the relationship database that contains the records of interactions between communicants. For every interaction between communicants one or more services of the network infrastructure service environment e.g. the area service transmit interaction data to the interaction service. In response the interaction service generates one or more respective interaction records and stores them in the relationship database. Each interaction record describes the context of an interaction between a pair of communicants. For example in some embodiments an interaction record contains an identifier for each of the communicants an identifier for the place of interaction e.g. a virtual area instance a description of the hierarchy of the interaction place e.g. a description of how the interaction room relates to a larger area start and end times of the interaction and a list of all files and other data streams that are shared or recorded during the interaction. Thus for each realtime interaction the interaction service tracks when it occurred where it occurred and what happened during the interaction in terms of communicants involved e.g. entering and exiting objects that are activated deactivated and the files that were shared.

The interaction service also supports queries on the relationship database subject to the capabilities of the requesting entities. The interaction service presents the results of queries on the interaction database records in a sorted order e.g. most frequent or most recent based on virtual area. The query results can be used to drive a frequency sort of contacts whom a communicant has met in which virtual areas as well as sorts of who the communicant has met with regardless of virtual area and sorts of the virtual areas the communicant frequents most often. The query results also may be used by application developers as part of a heuristic system that automates certain tasks based on relationships. An example of a heuristic of this type is a heuristic that permits communicants who have visited a particular virtual area more than five times to enter without knocking by default or a heuristic that allows communicants who were present in an area at a particular time to modify and delete files created by another communicant who was present in the same area at the same time. Queries on the relationship database can be combined with other searches. For example queries on the relationship database may be combined with queries on contact history data generated for interactions with contacts using a communication system e.g. Skype Facebook and Flickr that is outside the domain of the network infrastructure service environment .

The communications application and the network infrastructure service environment typically administer the realtime connections with network nodes in a communication context that is defined by an instance of a virtual area. The virtual area instance may correspond to an abstract non geometric virtual space that is defined with respect to abstract coordinates. Alternatively the virtual area instance may correspond to a visual virtual space that is defined with respect to one two or three dimensional geometric coordinates that are associated with a particular visualization. Abstract virtual areas may or may not be associated with respective visualizations whereas visual virtual areas are associated with respective visualizations.

As explained above communicants typically are represented by respective avatars in a virtual area that has an associated visualization. The avatars move about the virtual area in response to commands that are input by the communicants at their respective network nodes. In some embodiments the communicant s view of a virtual area instance typically is presented from the perspective of the communicant s avatar and each communicant typically is able to view any part of the visual virtual area around his or her avatar increasing the level of immersion that is experienced by the communicant.

As explained in detail below the virtual area includes zones that are associated with respective rules that govern the switching of realtime data streams between the network nodes that are represented by the avatars in the virtual area . During a typical communication session the dashed lines demarcating the zones in are not visible to the communicants although there may be visual cues associated with such zone boundaries. The switching rules dictate how local connection processes executing on each of the network nodes establishes communications with the other network nodes based on the locations of the communicants avatars in the zones of the virtual area .

A virtual area is defined by a specification that includes a description of geometric elements of the virtual area and one or more rules including switching rules and governance rules. The switching rules govern realtime stream connections between the network nodes. The governance rules control a communicant s access to resources such as the virtual area itself regions with the virtual area and objects within the virtual area. In some embodiments the geometric elements of the virtual area are described in accordance with the COLLADA Digital Asset Schema Release 1.4.1 Apr. 2006 specification available from http www.khronos.org collada and the switching rules are described using an extensible markup language XML text format referred to herein as a virtual space description format VSDL in accordance with the COLLADA Streams Reference specification described in U.S. application Ser. Nos. 11 923 629 and 11 923 634.

The geometric elements of the virtual area typically include physical geometry and collision geometry of the virtual area. The physical geometry describes the shape of the virtual area. The physical geometry typically is formed from surfaces of triangles quadrilaterals or polygons. Colors and textures are mapped onto the physical geometry to create a more realistic appearance for the virtual area. Lighting effects may be provided for example by painting lights onto the visual geometry and modifying the texture color or intensity near the lights. The collision geometry describes invisible surfaces that determine the ways in which objects can move in the virtual area. The collision geometry may coincide with the visual geometry correspond to a simpler approximation of the visual geometry or relate to application specific requirements of a virtual area designer.

The switching rules typically include a description of conditions for connecting sources and sinks of realtime data streams in terms of positions in the virtual area. Each rule typically includes attributes that define the realtime data stream type to which the rule applies and the location or locations in the virtual area where the rule applies. In some embodiments each of the rules optionally may include one or more attributes that specify a required role of the source a required role of the sink a priority level of the stream and a requested stream handling topology. In some embodiments if there are no explicit switching rules defined for a particular part of the virtual area one or more implicit or default switching rules may apply to that part of the virtual area. One exemplary default switching rule is a rule that connects every source to every compatible sink within an area subject to policy rules. Policy rules may apply globally to all connections between the client nodes or only to respective connections with individual client nodes. An example of a policy rule is a proximity policy rule that only allows connections of sources with compatible sinks that are associated with respective objects that are within a prescribed distance or radius of each other in the virtual area.

In some embodiments governance rules are associated with a virtual area to control who has access to the virtual area who has access to its contents what is the scope of that access to the contents of the virtual area e.g. what can a user do with the contents and what are the follow on consequences of accessing those contents e.g. record keeping such as audit logs and payment requirements . In some embodiments an entire virtual area or a zone of the virtual area is associated with a governance mesh. In some embodiments a governance mesh is implemented in a way that is analogous to the implementation of the zone mesh described in U.S. application Ser. Nos. 11 923 629 and 11 923 634. A governance mesh enables a software application developer to associate governance rules with a virtual area or a zone of a virtual area. This avoids the need for the creation of individual permissions for every file in a virtual area and avoids the need to deal with the complexity that potentially could arise when there is a need to treat the same document differently depending on the context.

In some embodiments a virtual area is associated with a governance mesh that associates one or more zones of the virtual area with a digital rights management DRM function. The DRM function controls access to one or more of the virtual area or one or more zones within the virtual area or objects within the virtual area. The DRM function is triggered every time a communicant crosses a governance mesh boundary within the virtual area. The DRM function determines whether the triggering action is permitted and if so what is the scope of the permitted action whether payment is needed and whether audit records need to be generated. In an exemplary implementation of a virtual area the associated governance mesh is configured such that if a communicant is able to enter the virtual area he or she is able to perform actions on all the documents that are associated with the virtual area including manipulating the documents viewing the documents downloading the documents deleting the documents modifying the documents and re uploading the documents. In this way the virtual area can become a repository for information that was shared and discussed in the context defined by the virtual area.

Additional details regarding the specification of a virtual area are described in U.S. application Ser. Nos. 61 042 714 which was filed on Apr. 4 2008 11 923 629 which was filed on Oct. 24 2007 and 11 923 634 which was filed on Oct. 24 2007 .

The local HIDs enable a communicant to input commands and other signals into the client network node while participating in a virtual area communications session. Exemplary HIDs include a computer keyboard a computer mouse a touch screen display and a microphone.

The audio playback devices enable a communicant to playback audio signals that are received during a virtual area communications session. Exemplary audio playback devices include audio processing hardware e.g. a sound card for manipulating e.g. mixing and applying special effects audio signals and speakers for outputting sounds.

The So3D engine is a three dimensional visualization engine that controls the presentation of a respective view of a virtual area and objects in the virtual area on a display monitor. The So3D engine typically interfaces with a graphical user interface driver and the HID devices to present the views of the virtual area and to allow the communicant to control the operation of the communications application .

In some embodiments the So3D engine receives graphics rendering instructions from the area service. The So3D engine also may read a local communicant avatar database that contains images needed for rendering the communicant s avatar in the virtual area. Based on this information the So3D engine generates a visual representation i.e. an image of the virtual area and the objects in the virtual area from the point of view position and orientation of the communicant s avatar in the virtual area. The visual representation typically is passed to the graphics rendering components of the operating system which drive the graphics rendering hardware to render the visual representation of the virtual area on the client network node.

The communicant can control the presented view of the virtual area by inputting view control commands via a HID device e.g. a computer mouse . The So3D engine updates the view of the virtual area in accordance with the view control commands. The So3D engine also updates the graphic representation of the virtual area on the display monitor in accordance with updated object position information received from the area service .

The system database and storage facility stores various kinds of information that is used by the platform. Exemplary information that typically is stored by the storage facility includes the presence database the relationship database an avatar database a real user id RUID database an art cache database and an area application database. This information may be stored on a single network node or it may be distributed across multiple network nodes.

A communicant typically connects to the network from a client network node. The client network node typically is implemented by a general purpose computer system or a dedicated communications computer system or console such as a network enabled video game console . The client network node executes communications processes that establish realtime data stream connections with other network nodes and typically executes visualization rendering processes that present a view of each virtual area entered by the communicant.

A communicant may interact e.g. input commands or data with the computer system using one or more input devices e.g. one or more keyboards computer mice microphones cameras joysticks physical motion sensors such Wii input devices and touch pads . Information may be presented through a graphical user interface GUI that is presented to the communicant on a display monitor which is controlled by a display controller . The computer system also may include other input output hardware e.g. peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer . The computer system connects to other network nodes through a network adapter also referred to as a network interface card or NIC .

A number of program modules may be stored in the system memory including application programming interfaces APIs an operating system OS e.g. the Windows XP operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. U.S.A. the communications application drivers e.g. a GUI driver network transport protocols and data e.g. input data output data program data a registry and configuration settings .

In some embodiments the one or more server network nodes of the virtual environment creator are implemented by respective general purpose computer systems of the same type as the client network node except that each server network node typically includes one or more server software applications.

In other embodiments the one or more server network nodes of the virtual environment creator are implemented by respective network devices that perform edge services e.g. routing and switching .

Referring back to during a communication session each of the client network nodes generates a respective set of realtime data streams e.g. motion data streams audio data streams chat data streams file transfer data streams and video data streams . For example each communicant manipulates one or more input devices e.g. the computer mouse and the keyboard that generate motion data streams which control the movement of his or her avatar in the virtual area . In addition the communicant s voice and other sounds that are generated locally in the vicinity of the computer system are captured by the microphone . The microphone generates audio signals that are converted into realtime audio streams. Respective copies of the audio streams are transmitted to the other network nodes that are represented by avatars in the virtual area . The sounds that are generated locally at these other network nodes are converted into realtime audio signals and transmitted to the computer system . The computer system converts the audio streams generated by the other network nodes into audio signals that are rendered by the speakers . The motion data streams and audio streams may be transmitted from each of the communicant nodes to the other client network nodes either directly or indirectly. In some stream handling topologies each of the client network nodes receives copies of the realtime data streams that are transmitted by the other client network nodes. In other stream handling topologies one or more of the client network nodes receives one or more stream mixes that are derived from realtime data streams that are sourced or originated from other ones of the network nodes.

In some embodiments the area service maintains global state information that includes a current specification of the virtual area a current register of the objects that are in the virtual area and a list of any stream mixes that currently are being generated by the network node hosting the area service. The objects register typically includes for each object in the virtual area a respective object identifier e.g. a label that uniquely identifies the object a connection handle e.g. a URI such as an IP address that enables a network connection to be established with a network node that is associated with the object and interface data that identifies the realtime data sources and sinks that are associated with the object e.g. the sources and sinks of the network node that is associated with the object . The objects register also typically includes one or more optional role identifiers for each object the role identifiers may be assigned explicitly to the objects by either the communicants or the area service or may be inferred from other attributes of the objects or the user. In some embodiments the objects register also includes the current position of each of the objects in the virtual area as determined by the area service from an analysis of the realtime motion data streams received from the network nodes associated with objects in the virtual area. In this regard the area service receives realtime motion data streams from the network nodes associated with objects in the virtual area tracks the communicants avatars and other objects that enter leave and move around in the virtual area based on the motion data. The area service updates the objects register in accordance with the current locations of the tracked objects.

In the process of administering realtime data stream connections with other network nodes the area service maintains for each of the client network nodes a set of configuration data including interface data a zone list and the positions of the objects that currently are in the virtual area. The interface data includes for each object associated with each of the client network nodes a respective list of all the sources and sinks of realtime data stream types that are associated with the object. The zone list is a register of all the zones in the virtual area that currently are occupied by the avatar associated with the corresponding client network node. When a communicant first enters a virtual area the area service typically initializes the current object positions database with position initialization information. Thereafter the area service updates the current object positions database with the current positions of the objects in the virtual area as determined from an analysis of the realtime motion data streams received from the other client network nodes sharing the virtual area.

In addition to the local Human Interface Device HID and audio playback devices the So3D graphical display avatar and physics engine and the system database and storage facility the communications application also includes a graphical navigation and interaction interface referred to herein as a seeker interface that interfaces the user with the spatial virtual communication environment. The seeker interface includes navigation controls that enable the user to navigate the virtual environment and interaction controls that enable the user to control his or her interactions with other communicants in the virtual communication environment. The navigation and interaction controls typically are responsive to user selections that are made using any type of input device including a computer mouse a touch pad a touch screen display a keyboard and a video game controller. The seeker interface is an application that operates on each client network node. The seeker interface is a small lightweight interface that a user can keep up and running all the time on his or her desktop. The seeker interface allows the user to launch virtual area applications and provides the user with immediate access to realtime contacts and realtime collaborative places or areas . The seeker interface is integrated with realtime communications applications and or realtime communications components of the underlying operating system such that the seeker interface can initiate and receive realtime communications with other network nodes. A virtual area is integrated with the user s desktop through the seeker interface such that the user can upload files into the virtual environment created by the virtual environment creator use files stored in association with the virtual area using the native client software applications independently of the virtual environment while still present in a virtual area and more generally treat presence and position within a virtual area as an aspect of their operating environment analogous to other operating system functions rather than just one of several applications.

The spatial virtual communication environment typically can be modeled as a spatial hierarchy of places also referred to herein as locations and objects. The spatial hierarchy includes an ordered sequence of levels ranging from a top level to a bottom level. Each of the places in a successive one of the levels of the spatial hierarchy is contained in a respective one of the places in a preceding one of the levels. Each of the objects in the spatial hierarchy is contained in a respective one of the places. The levels of the spatial hierarchy typically are associated with respective visualizations that are consistent with a geographical architectural or urban metaphor and are labeled accordingly. The zones of each virtual area are defined by respective meshes some of which define elements of a physical environment e.g. spaces such as rooms and courtyards that are associated with a building that may contain objects e.g. avatars and props such as view screen objects and conferencing objects .

The navigational controls of the seeker interface allow the user to traverse a path through the virtual environment in accordance with a navigational model that is tied to the underlying spatial hierarchy of places and objects. The network infrastructure service environment records the path traversed by the user. In some embodiments the network infrastructure service environment records a history that includes a temporally ordered list of views of the virtual area that are presented to the user as the user navigates through the virtual area. Each view typically corresponds to a view of a respective renderable zone of the virtual area. In these embodiments the navigation controls enable the user to move to selected ones of the zones in the history. The navigation controls also include a graphical representation of a depth path that shows the location in the spatial hierarchy that corresponds to the user s current view of the virtual area. In some embodiments the graphical representation of the depth path includes a respective user selectable link to a respective view of each of the preceding levels in the spatial hierarchical model of the virtual area above the current view.

The interaction controls of the seeker interface allow the user to manage interactions with other communicants. The interaction options that available to the user typically depend on the zones in which the user has a presence. In some embodiments the interaction options that are available to communicants who have presence in a particular zone are different from the options that are available to other communicants who do not have presence in that zone. The level of detail and interactivity of the user typically depend on whether or not the user has a presence the particular zone. In one exemplary embodiment if the user is outside the virtual area the user is provided with a minimal level of detail of the interactions occurring within the virtual area e.g. the user can see an outline of the floorplan background textures and plants of the area but the user cannot see where other communicants are present in the area if the user is within the virtual area but outside a particular zone of the area the user is provided with a medium level of detail of the interactions occurring within the particular zone e.g. the user can see where other communicants are present in the area see a visualization of their current states talking typing a chat message whether or not their headphones and microphones are turned on and see whether any of the view screens are active if the user is within the particular zone of the area the user is provided with full level of detail of the interactions occurring with the particular zone e.g. the user can see a thumbnail of the file being shared on a view screen hear and speak with other communicants in the area and see elements of a log of chat messages that were generated by communicants in the zone . In some embodiments the switching and governance rules that are associated with the zones of the virtual area control how the network infrastructure services distinguish between those who have presence in the particular zone from those who do not.

Each of the tabs typically is associated with a respective view of the virtual environment. In the illustrated embodiment the view presented in the tab labeled My Areas is associated with a respective set of virtual areas which may be a default set of virtual areas in the virtual environment or it may be a set of virtual areas that is identified by a respective filter on the interaction database. In particular the tab is associated with a set of three virtual areas i.e. Acme Sococo Help Area and Personal Space which may be a default set of areas that are associated with the user or may be identified by a filter that identifies all of the areas that are associated with the user e.g. all of the areas in which the user has interacted . Additional tabs may be created by selecting the button .

The browsing area of each tab shows graphic representations of the elements of the virtual environment that are associated with the tab. For example in the illustrated embodiment the browsing area shows top level views of the virtual areas that are associated with the tab . The user may navigate to the next lower level in the spatial hierarchical model of any of the virtual areas by selecting the corresponding graphic representation of the virtual area.

The toolbar includes an adaptive set of navigational and interaction tools that automatically are selected by the seeker interface based on the current location of the user in the virtual environment. In the illustrated embodiment the toolbar includes a back button a forward button a placemarks button and a home button . The back button corresponds to a backward control that enables the user to incrementally move backward to preceding ones of the zones in the history of the zones that were traversed by the user. The forward button corresponds to a forward control that enables the user to incrementally move forward to successive ones of the zones in the history of the zones that were traversed by the user. The placemarks button provides a placemarking control for storing links to zones and a placemark navigation control for viewing a list of links to previously placemarked zones. In response to a user selection of the placemarking control a placemark is created by storing an image of the location shown in the current view in association with a hyperlink to the corresponding location in the virtual area. In response to a user selection of the placemark navigation control a placemarks window is presented to the user. The placemarks window includes live visualizations of all locations that have been placemarked by the user. Each of the images in the placemarks window is associated with a respective user selectable hyperlink. In response to user selection of one of the hyperlinks in the placemarks window a view of the virtual area corresponding to the location associated with the selected hyperlink is automatically displayed in the browsing area of the seeker interface window . The home button corresponds to a control that returns the user to a view of a designated home location in the virtual environment e.g. the view shown in .

Referring to in response to a user selection of the graphic representation of the Acme virtual area shown in the platform moves the user into a default zone of the virtual area automatically establishes a presence for the user in the default zone and automatically establishes a network connection between the user and each of the other communicants occupying the selected zone. Based on the switching rules established by the area designer the platform multiplexes the specified realtime data streams e.g. streams from the microphones and speakers of all the communicants in default zone such that they can both see each others sprites or avatars and communicate with e.g. speak to and hear each other.

The seeker interface shows a top or floorplan view of the Acme virtual area in the browsing area of the tab and provides the user with a default set of interaction options. In the illustrated embodiment a presence automatically is established in a courtyard zone of the virtual area and the user s microphone and default speakers e.g. headphones are turned on. In the floorplan view shown in the user is represented by a circular sprite the other users in the Acme virtual area also are represented by respective circular sprites . The state of the user s speakers is depicted by the presence or absence of a headphones graphic on the user s sprite when the speakers are on the headphones graphic is present and when the speakers are off the headphones graphic is absent. The state of the user s microphone is depicted by the presence or absence of a microphone graphic on the user s sprite and a series of concentric circles around the user s sprite when the microphone is on the microphone graphic and the concentric circles are present and when the microphone is off the microphone graphic and the concentric circles are absent. The headphones graphic the concentric circles and the microphone graphic serve as visual reminders of the states of the user s sound playback and microphone devices.

In addition to the backward button the forward button the placemarks button and the home button the toolbar also includes a series of one or more breadcrumb buttons that originate from and include the home button . The breadcrumb buttons correspond to a hierarchical sequence of successive user selectable links. Each of the successive links corresponds to a view of a respective level in the hierarchical model of the virtual area in which each successive level is contained by preceding ones of the levels. In the illustrated embodiment the breadcrumb buttons include the home button and an Acme button that corresponds to the current view of the Acme virtual area shown in . The breadcrumb buttons provide the user with single button selection access to respective views of different levels of the virtual environment. The toolbar additionally includes a button and a settings button .

When an area is selected or in focus the button appears as an iconographic representation of two people and is labeled members and allows members and moderators to see the list of people associated with an area. When an audio or chat zone is in focus the button has a different image e.g. an image of an arrow pointing downward onto a plane to represent the operation of getting and is labeled get . In response to a user selection of the button a list of all the members of the Acme virtual area is displayed in a user interface. The user may select any of the communicants in the list and click a get button that is presented in the user interface in response the platform transmits an invitation to the selected communicant to join the user in a designated one of the zones.

The settings button provides the user with access to a set of controls for specifying default settings that are associated with the current area.

The user may navigate from the view of the Acme virtual area shown in back to the view shown in in a variety of different ways. For example the user may select any of the back button the home button or any part of the zone that is outside the boundary of the graphic representation of the Acme virtual area shown in .

The user may navigate to any of the zones of the Acme virtual area. In some embodiments in order to move to a zone the user transmits a command to execute one of the zones displayed on the monitor e.g. by selecting the zone and then clicking the Enter button in the toolbar or as a shortcut double clicking the zone and in response the platform depicts the user s avatar in the zone corresponding to the zone object. In response to the zone execution command the seeker interface outlines the zone indicating to the user that it is selected and updates the breadcrumb buttons to show the selected zone location in the hierarchy. Toolbar buttons specific to the selection will also appear to the right of the breadcrumb buttons .

The user also may interact with any objects e.g. a screen table or file that are present in a zone. In some embodiments in order to interact with an object the user transmits a command to execute one of the objects displayed on the monitor e.g. by selecting the object and then clicking the View button in the toolbar or as a shortcut double clicking the object and in response the platform performs an operation with respect to the object e.g. present a zoomed in view of the object open an interaction interface window etc. . In response to the object execution command the seeker interface outlines or otherwise highlights the prop indicating to the user that it is selected and updates the breadcrumb buttons to show the selected object location in the hierarchy. Toolbar buttons specific to the selection will also appear to the right of the breadcrumb buttons .

As shown in in some embodiments in response to the user entering a Main space the platform automatically establishes a network connection between the user and each of the other communicants occupying the selected zone. The user also may enter and thereby establish a presence in a space by selecting the space and clicking the Enter button this causes the platform to move the user s sprite from its current location i.e. Courtyard to the selected space i.e. Main see . The settings of user s speakers and microphone typically do not change when the user is moved from one location to another.

After the user has moved into the Main space see the user may navigate to a different view of the virtual area by inputting a command to execute typically double clicking any part of the current view surrounding the Main space . For example in response to a user double clicking of any part of the zone that is outside the boundary of the Main space and the Acme virtual area the seeker interface displays the zoomed out view of the Acme virtual area that is shown in . The user also may navigate to a different view of the virtual area by selecting another space in the virtual area e.g. the West Conference space the East Conference space or the Courtyard space and by clicking Enter by double clicking the zone or by selecting one of the breadcrumb buttons e.g. the Acme breadcrumb button .

In some embodiments navigating to a different view changes the user s presence state whereas panning and zooming only changes the user s view state. In some cases navigating will also change view state as a convenience to the user. The following examples illustrate this interface feature.

In other embodiments the navigation to a different view does not affect the presence of the user in the Main space .

Referring back to in response to the context change resulting from the user s entry into the Main space the toolbar automatically is modified to include a leave button . In response to a user selection of the leave button the user s presence in the Main space is terminated and the user s avatar is removed from the Main space as shown in . After the user has left the Main space the leave button automatically is removed from the toolbar because it is no longer relevant in the current selection.

After the user has moved into the Main space see the user may toggle one or both of the headphones button and the microphone button in order to selectively turn on and turn off one or both of the user s speakers and microphone. As shown in the headphones graphic the concentric circles around the user s sprite and the microphone graphic on the user s sprite are omitted when the user s speakers and microphone both are turned off.

Referring to the user may initiate a chat with the communicants in the zone by selecting a chat button in the toolbar . In response to a user selection of the chat button a separate chat window is opened. The chat window includes a toolbar a chat log area a text box and a Send button . The toolbar includes an independent set of navigation and interaction control buttons including a headphones button for toggling on and off the user s speakers a microphone button for toggling on and off the user s microphone a get button for getting people discussed above a minimap button for opening a minimap view discussed below a leave button for leaving the current zone discussed above and a rooms button for opening a separate navigation interface window that displays a list of spaces e.g. rooms in the virtual area discussed below . As shown in the chat log area displays a log of events that are associated with the currently active space i.e. Main and sequences of text messages that the user has exchanged with other communicants in the currently active space i.e. Main . An exemplary set of events that are recorded in the chat log area include changes in the presence status of communicants in the currently active space and changes in the speaker and microphone settings of the communicants in the currently active space. The user may enter text messages in the text box and transmit the text messages to the other communicants in the currently active space by selecting the Send button . In some embodiments the communicants in a particular room zone send their chat message to all other communicants in a separate chat zone which often shares a similar boundary with the room zone . In this way a given room can have more than one chat zone and a chat zone can span more than one room if the needs of the application require it.

As shown in the user may toggle the minimap button in the chat window to open a minimap that shows a view of the currently active space in the chat window . The minimap view shows a view of the currently active area i.e. the Main space as well as adjacent areas of the virtual area. The minimap provides the same type of navigation functionality as the browsing area of the tab . For example the user may inputting a command to execute typically by double clicking a space represented in the minimap to navigate to the corresponding space of the virtual area and the user also may inputting a command to execute typically by double clicking a region surrounding the currently presented space in order to navigate to a view of the next higher level in the hierarchical spatial model of the virtual area. The minimap also includes an open in seeker button for opening the currently selected zone in the seeker window.

Referring to the chat window is separate and distinct from the seeker interface window . The chat window can overlap the seeker interface window and vice versa . The seeker interface window can be closed and the user can continue to interact with other communicants and navigate to other spaces in the virtual area using the interface controls available through the chat window . shows the situation in which the user has navigated to a view of the East Conference space by double clicking on the corresponding region of the minimap and the platform has established a presence for the user in the East Conference space .

Referring to in response to a user selection of the get button a list of available communicants is displayed in a separate pop up window . The get button is presented in association with a respective one of the zones in which the user has presence. In response to a user selection of one of the communicants in the list of available communicants the platform transmits an invitation to the selected communicant to join the user in the respective zone. For example shows a situation in which the get button is presented in association with the Main space where the user has a presence . The user has selected Elizabeth Baker in the list of available communicants displayed in the window . In response to the selection of the Send button the platform transmits an invitation to the communicant associated with the name Elizabeth Baker to join the user in the Main space e.g. Please join me in Main. .

In some embodiments the seeker interface additionally includes a contacts window that has a get button and a list of contacts that are associated with the user along with an indication of respective ones of the zones in which the contacts have presence. The user can select one or more of the contacts in the list and in response to a user selection of the get button the system transmits an invitation to each of the selected contacts to join the user in a respective one of the zones in which the user has presence.

In some embodiments the graphic representations of the other communicants in a space are selectable like other objects. For example in response to a user selection of one of the graphical representations of the other communicants the seeker interface displays a contacts window that contains information and user selectable controls relating to the communicant associated with the selected graphical representation. The user selectable controls include a mute button that enables the user to selectively mute audio signals received from the communicant associated with the selected graphical representation.

Referring to in addition to the controls described above the toolbar also includes a minimap button . The user may select the minimap button to open a minimap that is overlaid on the view of the currently active space. The minimap shows a view of the virtual area from a perspective that is one level higher in the hierarchical spatial model of a virtual area above the current view that is presented in the browsing area of the tab . In the exemplary situation shown in the currently active space is the Main space and the view shown in the minimap corresponds to the floorplan view of the Acme space which is the next higher level in the hierarchical spatial model of the virtual area above the view of the Main space shown in the browsing area . Every pixel in the minimap is associated with a respective reference to a corresponding location in the view shown in the minimap . In response to a user inputting a command to execute typically by double clicking of any part of the minimap the seeker interface presents a view of the corresponding location in the browsing area of the tab and if the target is a zone moves the communicant to that new location . Thus the user can double click on any part of the West Conference space the Courtyard space the East Conference space etc. and the seeker interface will present in the browsing area a view of the selected space along with surrounding areas of the virtual area immediately adjacent the selected space and move the user s presence there.

The user also can select any of the objects in the currently active area and the minimap will update the toolbar to show commands relevant to the selection.

For example shows a situation in which the user has double clicked a table object in the view of the Main space shown in . In response to the user s selection of the table object the seeker interface presents in the browsing area of the tab a zoomed in view of the table object and the areas of the Main space surrounding the table object . In addition the seeker interface shows in the minimap a view of the Main space and the areas of the Acme space surrounding the Main space . The breadcrumb buttons shown in the toolbar of the tab include a Table button that corresponds to the current level in the hierarchical spatial model of the virtual area. The toolbar also includes an upload button that allows the user to upload a data file from the client node to a repository that is maintained by the network infrastructure service environment . In response to a user selection of a data file to upload the network infrastructure service environment stores the uploaded file in the repository and creates a database record that associates the data file with the table object . Other communicants who enter the Main space are able to view the contents of the uploaded data file and subject to governance rules associated with the Main space optionally may be able to modify or delete the data file.

As shown in at the room level of the hierarchical spatial model of the virtual area and lower the minimap is associated with the following interaction and navigation controls that operate as described above a speakers button a microphone button a chat button a get or people button and a leave button .

In the embodiment shown in the minimap is presented as a picture in picture view that is superimposed on the view of the successively lower view of the hierarchical spatial model of the virtual area that is presented in the browsing area of the tab . In other embodiments the minimap may be presented in a separate and discrete window that may be tiled over or under the main window or presented in a separate tab of the seeker interface window .

In response to the user s command to execute the wall object the seeker interface presents in the browsing area of the tab a 2.5 dimensional view of the contents of the wall object and areas of the Main space surrounding the wall object . In the embodiment shown in the selected wall object corresponds to a North Wall of the Main space . The North Wall contains a pair of view screen objects labeled 2 and 3 respectively that are presented on the North Wall object . The view screen objects can be used to present the contents of data files that are associated with the North Wall of the Main space . The 2.5 dimensional view also shows a West Wall object and an East Wall object that are located on the left and right sides of the North Wall object respectively. Each of the West Wall object and the East Wall object includes a respective view screen object labeled 1 and 4 respectively that can be used to present the contents of respective data files.

The interface also shows in the minimap a view of the Main space and areas of the Acme space surrounding the Main space . The minimap also shows a highlighted view of the selected North Wall object in the Main space .

The breadcrumb buttons shown in the toolbar of the tab include a North Wall button that corresponds to the current level in the hierarchical spatial model of the virtual area. The toolbar includes a rotate left button and a rotate right button that allow the user to rotate the current view left and right by ninety degrees 90 so that the user can view the contents of different walls of the Main space in the central viewing area of the 2.5 dimensional view of the Main space . The user also can double click a different one of the walls that are shown in the minimap in order to change the contents that are presented in the central viewing area of the 2.5 dimensional view of the Main space .

In response to a user selection of the Share button or the Share link the seeker interface opens a separate Select Source interface window that allows the user to designate a data file whose contents will be shared on the view screen object . The Select Source interface includes a text box for receiving a data file identifier e.g. a local data file storage path name or a Uniform Resource Identifier URI and a Browse button that enables the user to browse different locations for the data file identifier. The data file identifier may be located on the client node or another network node. The Select Source interface window also includes a favorites button that allows the user to browse a list of previously bookmarked files applications or URIs for the data file identifier.

Referring to after the user has selected a data file identifier in the Select Source interface the contents of the selected data file are displayed on the view screen object in both the browsing area and the minimap . In the illustrated embodiment the designated data file corresponds to a PowerPoint data file that contains a slide of a pie chart. The user can terminate the presentation of the data file on the view screen object by selecting the clear icon .

Users are able to concurrently have a respective presence in multiple locations in a virtual area. In this way users can monitor and participate in the interactions occurring in multiple locations at the same time. In some embodiments the user establishes a respective presence in each of multiple locations by inputting a copy presence command through the seeker interface. In some embodiments the user inputs the copy presence command either by shift clicking the target zone where the user intends to establish an additional presence or by shift clicking a reference e.g. a hyperlink to the target zone e.g. by shift double clicking a breadcrumb or placemark that is linked to the target zone . Note that the user can shift double click an object or zone since clicking would merely select it whereas the user can merely shift click a reference since the reference can t be selected. In response to receipt of a copy presence command in connection with a user selection of one of the zones displayed on the monitor the system depicts a respective graphical representation of the user in the selected zone while continuing to depict a respective graphical representation of the user in each of the zones where the user had presence before the selection of the zone. In some embodiments each of the graphical representations of the user is depicted in a respective view that is presented in a separate window on the display. The windows may be associated with respective user selectable tabs and in response to a user selection of any of the tabs the seeker interface displays only content of the window respectively associated with the selected tab in a common display area.

The user can manipulate the second seeker interface window independently of the first seeker interface window . For example the user can close the second seeker interface window without affecting the first seeker interface window as shown in . The user also can move the second seeker interface window to a different location on the display relative to the first window as shown in . Other window operations e.g. resizing tiling over or under other windows also can be performed on the second seeker interface window .

Referring to in addition to the seeker interface window some embodiments allow the user to open a separate navigation interface window that provides the user with additional tools for navigating the virtual environment. The navigation interface window includes an Areas tab and a Rooms tab .

As shown in the Areas tab shows a list of graphical representations of the virtual areas that are associated with the user e.g. the Acme area and the Sococo Help Desk . The virtual area list may be a static list or it may be generated dynamically based on the results of a query on the relationship database for virtual areas that are associated with the user. In response to the user s selection of any of the graphical representations of the virtual areas shown in the Areas tab the system automatically updates the view that is displayed in the seeker interface window the user s presence state and the user s network connections to reflect the user s entry into the selected area.

As shown in the Rooms tab shows a set of floating windows each of which is associated with a filtered list of the renderable zones of one or more of the virtual areas that are associated with the user. In the illustrated embodiment the Present At window is associated with a list of graphical representations of all the renderable zones in which the user has a respective presence and the All window is associated with a list of all of the renderable zones in each of the virtual areas in which the user has a respective presence. Additional filtered lists of spaces are possible. For example in some embodiments the Rooms tab includes a floating window that is associated with a list of graphical representations of all the renderable zones of a virtual area that are active i.e. that have at least one person in them . In some embodiments the Rooms tab includes a floating window that is associated with a list of graphical representations of all the renderable zones that the user has associated with a placemark e.g. a zone corresponding to the user s office . In response to the user s selection of any of the graphical representations of the zones shown in the Rooms tab the system automatically updates the view in the seeker interface window the user s presence state and the user s network connections to reflect the user s entry into the selected zone.

Referring to some embodiments display various notifications of events occurring in the zones of one or more virtual areas. Each notification window typically describes a single event that is associated with a respective one of the zones e.g. reception of a new chat message reception of an invitation to join another communicant in a particular zone and a change in a communicant s presence state in a zone . For example shows an embodiment in which a notification window is displayed each time a communicant leaves a renderable zone in which the user has a respective presence e.g. Frank Rodriguez has left Main . shows an embodiment in which a notification window is displayed each time a communicant enters a renderable zone in which the user has a respective presence e.g. Frank Rodriguez has entered Main . shows an embodiment in which a notification window is displayed each time the user receives an invitation to join another communicant in a particular zone e.g. a message from Hand Kim to Please join me in the courtyard .

In some embodiments the notification windows are implemented by so called toast windows that dynamically pops up out of corner of the user s desktop.

In some embodiments the notification window includes a hyperlink to the respective zone that is the subject of the notification. For example in the embodiment shown in the notification window includes a minimap that shows a graphical representation of the Courtyard space that is associated with a hyperlink reference to the Courtyard space . In response to a user selection of the hyperlink the platform moves the graphical representation of the user to the respective zone e.g. the Courtyard space from the zone e.g. the Main space where the user had presence before the selection and establishes a presence for the user in the respective zone e.g. the Courtyard space .

The embodiments that are described herein provide improved systems and methods for navigating and interacting in spatial virtual communication environments. These embodiments provide an interface that includes navigation controls that enable a user to navigate virtual areas and interaction controls that enable the user to interact with other communicants in the virtual areas. The navigation controls allow the user to change his or her focus e.g. the current view of the virtual area or the current zone or zones where the user has presence using a variety of intuitive point and click browsing methods in the context of a hierarchical spatial model of a virtual area. In some embodiments the interface adaptively presents navigation controls and interaction controls that are appropriate to the user s needs in the context of the user s current focus.

