---

title: Blast debris protective harness
abstract: A blast debris protective harness includes a front shell portion and a rear shell portion joined together. Each of the front and rear shell portions has an inside shell member and an outside shell member. A cavity is defined between the inside shell member and the outside shell member. A ballistic insert is configured to be retained within the cavity. The harness is an outer garment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09322618&OS=09322618&RS=09322618
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09322618
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121127
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to the field of body armor and in particular to blast debris protection.

There are many types of body armor for protecting the upper body or torso of an individual such as soldiers or warfighters in combat zones. However the lower torso is also vulnerable to injury from blast related events. The lower torso is generally intended to include areas of the body such as the lower intestines colon groin bladder femoral arteries and lower portions of the back spine and kidneys. Until recently approaches for protecting the lower torso of a soldier have generally been limited to frontal protection of the groin and upper leg regions. However this generally left other approach angles in the urogenital area and other areas of the lower torso such as the femoral artery and perineum exposed during a blast event.

One approach to protecting the lower torso was a groin panel. The groin panel was a flat panel that hung from the body armor vest. However the groin panel would have a tendency to flap and hit the wearer in the very area it was intended to protect causing discomfort. Also whenever the soldier would take a knee the panel would be lifted by the thigh exposing the urogenital perineal and femoral regions. Additionally a blast event could result in movement of the panel away from the area it is intended to protect.

A next generation groin panel had a three dimensional contour and attachment to the trousers to improve the panel s lay against the body even when taking a knee. The shaped groin panel was coupled with a blast protective diaper. However the shaped groin panel and protective diaper system lacked femoral pelvic and thigh coverage. The system would also need to be worn very snugly against the body to ensure protection given its limited area of coverage and was cumbersome to wear.

Other efforts have been made in the form of over garment body armor having over garment shorts. These shorts are meant to be pulled over clothing. However such garments do not provide protective coverage of the urogenital and perineal regions of the lower torso. These types of garments also do not provide for ease of evacuation or medical access. The designs and fabrication of these types of garments also tend to be split with breaks in the areas of coverage.

Thus while efforts have been made to provide protection of the lower torso from hazards such as blast related events these efforts have generally lacked adequate protective coverage lacked user acceptance and did not interface well with either the user or other body worn equipment.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a protective garment for the lower torso that addresses at least some of the problems identified above.

As described herein the exemplary embodiments overcome one or more of the above or other disadvantages known in the art.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a blast debris protective harness. In one embodiment the blast debris protective harness includes a front shell portion and a rear shell portion. Each of the front and rear shell portions has an inside shell member and an outside shell member. A cavity is defined between the inside shell member and the outside shell member. The ballistic material insert can be configured to be retained or removably retained within the cavity. The harness is an outer garment.

Another aspect of the exemplary embodiments relates to a blast protective outer garment for a lower torso of a wearer. In one embodiment the blast protective outer garment includes a single piece hollow shell comprising a front portion and a back portion. A single piece ballistic insert is configured to be received in the hollow shell and extends from the front portion into and through the back portion. A waist member is coupled to an end of each of the front and back portion and configured to join the front and back portions around a waist of the wearer. An opening is defined between the waist member and each of the front and back portions to enable access to a pocket of an undergarment of the wearer. The garment provides blast protection to urogenital perineum and femoral artery regions of the lower torso of the wearer.

These and other aspects and advantages of the exemplary embodiments will become apparent from the following detailed description considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings. It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims. Additional aspects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description that follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. Moreover the aspects and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Referring to one embodiment of a protective harness incorporating aspects of the present disclosure is generally designated by reference numeral . The aspects of the disclosed embodiments are directed to a uniquely shaped protective harness in the form of an over garment that offers protective coverage of areas of human body that generally include the regions of the lower torso and upper leg such as the urogenital perineal and femoral artery regions from blast and other combat related events. The term lower torso as is used herein is generally intended to include the regions of the upper leg as well. The harness is adjustable to accommodate different size wearers is fitted closely to the body and yet provides freedom in the range of movement and provides complete coverage of the groin area with no breaks. Although the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are generally described herein with respect to blast related events the aspects of the disclosed embodiments are not so limited. In one embodiment the protective harness can also provide protection from events such as small arms fire. The protective harness can also be referred to as protective shorts.

As shown in the front shell portion generally includes a front waist member and right and left front panels respectively. The right and left panels are substantially symmetrical. illustrates the back view of the protective harness shown in . In this embodiment the protective harness includes a back or rear waist member and right and left rear panels respectively.

As is illustrated in the protective harness is in the form of an outer garment that is configured to go over a pant or trouser member . In this example the pant member which could also include a pair of shorts or other suitable lower torso garment includes front pocket members shown in and rear pocket members shown in as well as lower or side pocket members . For purposes of the description herein the right and left pockets of the pant member will not be separately referred to. The aspects of the disclosed embodiments provide wearer access to each of the pocket members and when the protective harness is worn or fastened over the pants .

In one embodiment the lower closure members can comprise an elastic material that is configured to provide an ease of movement to the user when the protective harness is being worn as well as a webbing material that provides durability. In one embodiment the buckle closure members include a plastic buckle member to join the front and back portions of the buckle closure member . Although a buckle closure member is described herein the aspects of the disclosed embodiment are not so limited and can include any suitable closure devices that allows ease of connecting disconnecting and size adjustment other than including a buckle. For example in one embodiment a snap or hook and fastener closure device that includes a size adjustment device can be used.

As shown in the inner portion of the front shell includes an opening to the pouch area . The opening is defined by a closure member which in this embodiment comprises a releasable closure member such as for example a hook and loop fastener device. In the embodiment shown in the opening includes a flap member and a shell member . The flap member will removably couple to the shell member to close the opening .

The pouch generally runs from the front shell portion through the rear shell portion . In one embodiment the front shell of the protective harness includes a releasable fastener such as a hook and loop fastener member on an inside of the pouch . In the embodiment shown in the fastener member is stitched to the inner member of the protective harness . The fastener member will be used to removably secure ballistics within the pouch area as is described herein below. Although only one fastener member is shown in alternate embodiments any suitable number of fastener members can be used.

The ballistics insert is generally held or retained within the pouch of the protective harness using hook and loop fastener members. In one embodiment the ballistics insert is removably retained within the pouch . In the embodiments illustrated in hook and loop fastener members and are coupled to the front and rear shell portions of the protective harness. The ballistics insert shown in includes complementary hook and loop fastener members and . By mating respective pairs of hook and loop fastener members and the ballistics insert can be removably secured and retained within the pouch area of the protective harness . In one embodiment the fastener members and are stitched to the ballistics insert by sewing through all of the layers of the insert into the ballistics contained therein. Although only three fastener members and are shown in in alternate embodiments any suitable number of fastening members can be used.

Referring again to in one embodiment the ballistics insert is inserted into the front shell through the opening . The back portion of the ballistic insert can be fed into the opening first. The fasteners members and on the ballistics insert are aligned with and attached to corresponding fastener members and on the back shell . The fastener member is then aligned with and attached to the corresponding fastener member on the front shell portion . The opening can then be closed by sealing flap member to shell member to conceal the ballistics.

In one embodiment the first ballistic pattern and the second ballistic pattern are sewn together on top of the seam allowance to form a ballistic piece or layer . The same is done for each layer. As shown in two ballistic pieces or layers are illustrated. Although only two layers are illustrated in in alternate embodiments any suitable number of layers can be included. As shown in each pattern is aligned and sewn together in schematic one upon another to form ballistic layers with an overlapped or staggered flat seam area . Referring again to after all of the patterns of each layer are sewn together to form the ballistic layers the layers are aligned face to face so that the seam allowances on each layer alternate sides. This technique forms a substantially flat seam area without bulk in the crotch area of the wearer. This advantageously reduces vulnerability that may result from aligned seams it also provides more comfort as well as free range of motion. The aspects of the disclosed embodiments do not restrict the range of motion of the wearer. The unique shape of the protective harness the techniques by which the panel members and ballistic pieces are sewn together as well as the manner in which the protective harness fits the wearer s body provides a free and unrestricted range of motion.

The aspects of the disclosed embodiments are directed to wearable body armor for protecting the lower torso. The protective harness is in the form of an outer garment that is configured to be worn over a garment such as combat uniform. The protective harness is configured to be put on and taken off easily and quickly and is adjustable in size.

The protective harness is configured to accommodate a ballistics insert that is designed to provide protection to the lower torso. The protective harness provides particular protection of the areas of the urogenital perineum and femoral artery regions of the lower torso. The protective harness wraps from the front of the person around to the back while leaving open access to the pockets of the under garment. The open yet protective design reduces the heat burden on the user.

The single piece ballistics insert covers the shape of the protective harness providing increased protection or reduced vulnerability from blast events and minimizes weight due to less material overlap. The unique design and construction of the protective harness provides improved protection due to its area of coverage. Despite the improved and increased areas of coverage the protective harness of the disclosed embodiments provides a generally full range of motion. The unique design of the protective harness allows for full access to pockets of a garment worn underneath the protective harness. The attachment or closure system in conjunction with the physical shape of the protective harness does not overly restrict the user s mobility offers adjustability and remains close to the body when in use to enhance protection.

Thus while there have been shown described and pointed out fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that various omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of devices and methods illustrated and in their operation may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Moreover it is expressly intended that all combinations of those elements and or method steps which perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way to achieve the same results are within the scope of the invention. Moreover it should be recognized that structures and or elements and or method steps shown and or described in connection with any disclosed form or embodiment of the invention may be incorporated in any other disclosed or described or suggested form or embodiment as a general matter of design choice. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

