---

title: Normalized images for item listings
abstract: Disclosed in some examples is a method including receiving a selection of an outline template; displaying the outline template in an image preview screen of a digital image capture device; responsive to a capture of an image of the digital image capture device, cropping the image to an outline of the outline template; positioning the cropped image over a second image and sending a combined image formed from the image positioned over the second image to a commerce server, the combined image for use as a product image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09064184&OS=09064184&RS=09064184
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09064184
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120618
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Merchants are always attempting to enhance their product presentations to appeal to consumers. These enhancements are aimed at converting consumers viewing these product presentations to purchasing customers. The same is true for online merchants who are attempting to sell various products to consumers over a network commerce system e.g. an Internet commerce website .

Merchants typically employ various product showcasing techniques to entice consumers to purchase their products. Product showcasing is the act of displaying a product effectively to engage a viewer and entice them to purchase the product. For example a merchant may showcase an item of clothing by using photographs of models wearing the clothing. As another example images of home goods such as a lamp or a piece of furniture may be displayed in a living room or other home setting. Showcasing items has several benefits. For instance with clothing a photo of a person wearing the item may allow the consumer to see how the item fits when worn. It may also allure consumers if the person photographed with the item of clothing is photogenic as consumers may associate the clothing with the photogenic nature of the model. As a result images of items showcased in this way may entice more purchases from consumers than if the product is shown by itself. Despite the many benefits of showcasing products in this manner the time and expense of producing a custom photo shoot for each product is beyond the practical reach for many smaller merchants.

Disclosed in some examples are systems methods and machine readable media which may allow merchants the ability to easily showcase their items by digitally creating an image which showcases their items. To accomplish this the system may allow the merchant to select one of a plurality of outline templates each outline template corresponding to a particular product. The outline templates visually guide the merchant in taking an image of a particular product with the proper scale angle proportions and rotation. The image may then be cropped to the outline template to create an intermediate product image which preferably removes any background leaving the product itself . This intermediate product image may then be superimposed on one of a number of selectable base images e.g. an image of a model or a living room scene or the like which are associated with the particular selected outline template to create a final product image which showcases the product.

For example a merchant may showcase a shirt product by first selecting an outline template of a shirt from a variety of outline template choices presented to the merchant. Next the merchant takes an image of the shirt using the outline template as a guide so the image has the right size rotation proportions and the like. The system may then create an intermediate product image by cropping the image of the shirt such that any background items are removed and the image is only that of the shirt. Next the merchant may select a base image from a number of available base images which are associated with or correspond to the chosen shirt template e.g. selecting from a number of posed shirt models . The system may then automatically superimpose the intermediate product image on the base image so as to create a final product image which showcases the product. In this example the final product image is that of a person wearing the product shirt.

In additional examples the system may be tailored to online marketplaces and may present various dialog boxes which may collect information about the item from the user. From this information and the created photo the system may build a product listing. A product listing is a description of a product or service which is offered for sale and typically contains information on the product information on the terms of the sale or auction or details about the current state of the auction if it is an auction listing shipping or delivery information payment information and or terms and the like. The created product listing may then be sent to the online marketplace for automatic placement of the listing on the online marketplace.

Each outline template may correspond to a particular product type and each product type may have several different outline template choices. Each outline template choice for a particular product type may have different proportions shape orientation or the like. For example there may be several different shirt templates. Additionally each outline template may be related to one or more base images. Thus the base images may be matched to the outline template such that an image of product taken while aligned within the outline template may correctly map onto the base image to produce a result that looks similar to that of a professional photo shoot. An outline template is a description of one or more image characteristics e.g. size orientation shape color and or the like which visually guides the user into taking an image which meets the description of those image characteristics. In one example shown in the outline template may be an outline superimposed on the image preview area of the digital camera.

Turning now to an example application is shown executing on a mobile device . Mobile device may be any device capable of causing an image to be taken processing the image and providing a user interface to a merchant or other user. Mobile device may include an integrated digital camera or may interface with an external camera. Example mobile devices include an iPhone manufactured by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. a device executing the Android operating system developed by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. such as the DROID X manufactured by Motorola Inc. of Schaumberg Ill. digital cameras tablets laptops or the like. A schematic of an example mobile device is presented in and will be discussed later. While the present disclosure refers to mobile devices one skilled in the art with the benefit of Applicant s disclosure will appreciate that other devices may be used. For example the application may execute on a standard desktop computer system e.g. with a camera attachment or interface .

In scene comprising the table and the product a shirt is displayed in the image preview area of the mobile device . The image preview area shows the user a live preview of what the image would look like if the user were to take the picture at that particular instant. The user e.g. a merchant has already selected an image template which corresponds to a particular product e.g. a shirt . The image template may be superimposed onto the displayed preview image and areas outside the template may be shaded. This template indicates to the user the approximate desired size shape and orientation which will look best on a particular class of base images. The user may adjust the item or the camera on the device either through the use of zoom or other software functions or through physically moving the camera so that the item is within the parameters of the template . The rest of the scene may be shaded or grayed out on the image preview area to clearly indicate that these areas are not going to be part of the image. For example table is outside template in the image and thus will not appear in the image.

Once the user issues a command to the device to take the image e.g. through a button or through a button on a touch screen display or the like the device captures the image as displayed on the image preview area at the time the button was depressed or shortly thereafter and stores it to memory. The application running on the device may then crop the image to the confines of the template creating an intermediate product image of only the item . The application may then display a series of options for the user to cut crop rotate or adjust the image properties.

The application may then present the user with a variety of choices of base images with which to superimpose the intermediate product image upon. These base images may be associated with the selected template. For example certain base images may relate only to certain templates thus specific base images may be created for specific products and or specific product templates. In other examples certain base images may relate to more than one template. For example a base image of a living room may be applicable for a variety of types of templates which are for home goods. In yet other examples users may select any base image regardless of the template chosen. Each base image and template to which it is associated may be matched in size shape orientation or the like so that an image taken using the template will fit over a desired feature of the base image. For example a base image of a model and a shirt template may be matched so that a picture of a shirt taken with the template fits nicely over the upper body section of the model. In a home scene base image the home scene and various templates of items in the home scene e.g. a lamp curtains a television or the like may be matched such that those items fit well in the home scene. In some examples multiple intermediate product images may be superimposed onto a particular base image so as to create an entire scene.

In some examples each base image may contain information on where the system should place a particular intermediate product image for each template that the base image is associated with. Thus if a base image of a model is associated with a shirt template and a pants template the base image may have information on where to place intermediate product images taken with the shirt template and information on where to place intermediate product images taken with the pants template. In other examples the placing of the intermediate product image may be determined by the user. In some examples even if the system automatically places the intermediate product image on the base image the user may have the opportunity to adjust the placement of the intermediate product image. For example adjusting the position the size the scale the tint tone or the like to ensure that the intermediate product image looks natural on the base image. In other examples the application may utilize a number of automatic adjustments so that the image of the product more closely matches the base image.

As already noted the application may have one or more base images with which the user may superimpose the intermediate product image. These base images may be preloaded into the software may be downloaded from any number of network locations e.g. network based servers or may be previously taken by the user. In some examples service providers may setup image servers which may provide base images to users executing the application. In some examples the service providers may charge a small fee for these images. In this way the cost of these base images e.g. the cost of a model shoot may be dispersed among a number of network based commerce merchants.

In the examples described so far the template was chosen first which then determined the selection of base images that the merchant may select. In other examples the base images may be selected first which may then determine the set of outline templates available to the user. For example the merchant may pick a particular model based upon looks ethnicity gender size shape or the like and then the particular outline templates available may be shown for selection.

In some examples the application may further include features which allow a network based merchant to not only create a final product image which showcases their product but also may include features to guide the merchant through creating a network based product listing for their product according to a defined template. For example the application may be setup to determine a product title description price including in some examples prices relevant to an online auction such as a minimum bid price a reserve price a buy it now price which allows a bidder to circumvent the auction and buy the item or the like shipping details tax details or the like. This information may then be formatted according to a listing template. The listing template may be supplied with the application may be downloaded from a network service across a network or the like.

The final product image may be combined with the information submitted by the merchant regarding the product to form an item listing. The item listing may be shown to the user for a preview. If the user is not satisfied with the item listing the user may make changes to it. Once the user is satisfied with the listing the application may automatically contact a network service to submit the listing such that the listing shows up in the internet merchant s commerce site or a third parties commerce site . In some examples the application may need to authenticate with the network commerce service and may require the merchant to enter a number of authentication details e.g. a username password .

For example shows an example listing for an online auction marketplace e.g. eBay.com . The application may create such a listing and communicate it with eBay s servers to have it automatically listed on the online commerce website. The listing may show a product image such as a final product image which showcases the product a title a short item description e.g. the item condition the time left in the auction and bid details . In addition a detailed description accessible to a buyer by selecting a description tab shipping and payment information not shown in but accessible by a user by selecting the shipping and payment info tab and other information may be presented. Note that in some examples information displayed in the listing as it exists on the network commerce system may be inserted into the listing and or updated by processes on the network commerce system in response to events handled by the network commerce system e.g. number of bids current bid time left in the auction availability of the product and the like .

Continuing on with the user preferably may center the item of interest within the template by adjusting the camera physically zooming in out or by taking other image adjustment steps so that the product is centered and placed within the template as determined by the image preview at operation . At operation the user takes the picture. At operation the application may crop the image to the template to create the intermediate product image. In some examples the application may allow the user to adjust the intermediate product image as necessary.

Continuing on to the application may present base image choices which the intermediate product image is to be superimposed upon. Once the user makes the selection and indicates the selection to the application at operation the application may create the product image. At operation the system may superimpose the intermediate product image onto the selected base image using placement instructions in the base image or based upon additional user input to generate the final product image.

At operation the user may provide listing information to the application which may allow the application to build a listing. At operation the listing information along with the final product image may be sent to a commerce server for listing.

An Application Program Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more marketplace applications and payment applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more databases servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access the networked system . For example marketplace applications may provide one or more background images. The payment applications may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the marketplace and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various marketplace and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system . In some examples the programmatic client may be a seller application operating on a mobile device such as a mobile device described in . In some examples the programmatic client may execute a client application such as that described in and which may provide functionality as described in . In other examples the client machine may be buyer machines which access the networked system to buy products.

Input module may collect input from the user for example input module may receive and process the user selection of the outline template receive and process the user selection of the base image receive information about the product and the like. Input module may also receive input over a network interface from one or more network servers. For example messages from a network commerce server such as a network system relating to the submission of product listings or the download of images e.g. base images templates or the like. Input module may collect input through one or more physical input devices e.g. keyboards keypads pointing devices or the like or virtual keys on a touch screen display as well as through a network interface e.g. through Ethernet Wi Fi or other connection .

Output module may cause various images to be displayed on a display of the client machine . For example output module may cause to be displayed a template selection screen a preview image with the template superimposed a base image selection screen a listing details input screen a listing preview screen various menus the image preview screen and other screens. For example output module may cause to be displayed the graphical user interfaces described in or similar. Output module may also send output over a network interface to one or more network servers. For example output module may communicate with a network commerce server such as a network system to submit product listings download images e.g. base images templates or the like.

Control module may coordinate amongst the image capture module the input module and the output module to provide the application to the user. For example the control module may signal the output module to display the list of templates or an image representation of the templates to the user and receive the selection from the input module . The chosen template may then be communicated by the control module to the image capture module along with instructions to conduct an image capture. The image capture module may utilize the template when displaying the image preview. The input module may signal the control module when the user presses a button to take the picture. The control module may then signal the image capture module to record the image currently detected by the image detector e.g. a Charged Coupled Detector or CCD or the like . The image may then be transferred to the control module where the control module may then crop the image based upon the outline template to create an intermediate product image.

The control module may then direct the output module to display the intermediate product image along with a number of image manipulation controls. The input module may signal the control module upon the selection of an image manipulation control. The control module may update the output module to reflect the selection of the control and may receive more inputs regarding operations done with the image manipulation controls and may manipulate the intermediate product image in accordance with those controls. Once the user is happy with the image the input module may receive a next indication or some other indication that the user is happy with the image.

Upon receiving this indication the control module may direct the output module to display a series of base images and receive the selection of the user s chosen base image from the input module . Upon receiving the selection the control module may superimpose the intermediate product image onto the chosen base image based upon positioning information in the chosen outline template to create a final product image. In some examples the control module may again present an image editing interface through output and input modules and may allow for editing the final product image. Once the image is finalized the control module may direct the output module to display a series of item information input fields according to a listing template which may define the information which the user may desire to have in their listing. The input module may send the user s inputs regarding the information to the control module . The control module may then build the listing and submit it for presentation to buyers according to an Application Programming Interface of the networked system .

One skilled in the art with the benefit of Applicants disclosure will appreciate that although the examples described herein utilized an application executing on a particular client machine the functionality described may be distributed across a plurality of machines which may be connected by a network. For example some of the functionality may be performed by a network server e.g. a server in the networked system .

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

A method comprising receiving a selection of an outline template displaying the outline template in an image preview screen of a digital image capture device responsive to receiving a capture of an image from the digital image capture device cropping the image to an outline of the outline template positioning the cropped image over a second image creating a combined image formed from the cropped image positioned over the second image using a computer processor and sending the combined image to a commerce server over a network as part of an item listing.

The method of example 1 wherein the second image is selected from a plurality of second images which are associated with the outline template.

The method of example 2 wherein each particular image of the plurality of second images associated with the outline template contains positioning information and wherein the positioning the cropped image over the second image comprises using the positioning information to position the cropped image onto the particular image.

The method of any one of examples 1 3 wherein the digital image capture device is part of a mobile computing device.

The method of example 4 wherein the mobile computing device includes a radio transceiver for sending and receiving data.

The method of any one of examples 1 5 further including receiving an item description and sending the item description along with the combined image to the commerce server the combined image and the item description forming the item listing.

The method of any one of examples 1 6 wherein the outline template is selected from a plurality of outline templates presented on the image preview screen.

A system including an input module configured to receive a capture of an image from a digital image capture device receive a selection of an outline template and receive a selection of a second image an output module configured to display the outline template in an image preview screen of the digital image capture device a control module configured to crop the image to an outline of the outline template responsive to receiving the capture of the image from the digital image capture device position the cropped image over the second image create a combined image formed from the cropped image positioned over the second image and an output module configured to send the combined image to a commerce server over a network as part of an item listing.

The system of example 8 wherein the second image is selected from a plurality of second images which are associated with the outline template.

The system of example 9 wherein each particular image of the plurality of second images associated with the outline template contains positioning information and wherein the control module is configured to position the cropped image over the second image by at least using the positioning information to position the cropped image onto the particular image.

The system of any one of examples 8 10 wherein the digital image capture device is part of a mobile computing device.

The system of example 11 wherein the mobile computing device includes a radio transceiver for sending and receiving data.

The system of any one of examples 8 12 wherein the input module is further configured to receive an item description and the output module is further configured to send the item description along with the combined image to the commerce server the combined image and the item description forming the item listing.

The system of any one of examples 8 13 wherein the outline template is selected from a plurality of outline templates presented on the image preview screen.

A machine readable medium that stores instructions which when performed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations comprising receiving a selection of an outline template display the outline template in an image preview screen of a digital image capture device responsive to receiving a capture of an image from the digital image capture device cropping the image to an outline of the outline template position the cropped image over a second image create a combined image formed from the cropped image positioned over the second image and send the combined image to a commerce server over a network as part of an item listing.

The machine readable medium of example 15 wherein the second image is selected from a plurality of second images which are associated with the outline template.

The machine readable medium of example 16 wherein each particular image of the plurality of second images associated with the outline template contains positioning information and wherein the positioning the cropped image over the second image comprises using the positioning information to position the cropped image onto the particular image.

The machine readable medium of any one of examples 15 17 wherein the digital image capture device is part of a mobile computing device.

The machine readable medium of example 18 wherein the mobile computing device includes a radio transceiver for sending and receiving data.

The machine readable medium of any one of examples 15 19 wherein the instructions further comprise instructions which when performed by the machine cause the machine to receive an item description and send the item description along with the combined image to the commerce server the combined image and the item description forming the item listing.

The machine readable medium of any one of examples 15 20 wherein the outline template is selected from a plurality of outline templates presented on the image preview screen.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

