---

title: Joint marketed customer hub
abstract: The instant application describes a method for receiving, at a hub and from a first partner, a request for a common identifier for linking an account of the customer associated with the first partner with an account of the customer associated with a second partner to provide the customer with enhanced joint account services; in response to the request, generating the common identifier and providing the common identifier to the first partner; generating at the hub a common ID status based on a first partner customer ID status and a second partner customer ID status; and forwarding the common ID status to the first partner and the second partner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117186&OS=09117186&RS=09117186
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09117186
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121121
---
Increasingly content providers and mobile communication network providers are reaching commercial agreements that may give residential and business services customers more choices new innovative products and new mobile experiences. The agreements may also give the customers more ways to experience entertainment communicate and connect. To take advantage of such joint services however a need for a solution exists that would provide a platform for joining and housing accounts of the various companies so that combined service offerings can be facilitated.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The instant application describes technology and features that integrate the home and wireless experience. To this end the instant application describes a Joint Marketed Customer JMC hub for establishing a third party system and process to support the technical and operational linking of accounts associated with customers of a mobile communication network provider e.g. Verizon Wireless VzW and a content provider e.g. MSO collectively partners who have entered into a joint relationship. The JMC hub may be used when JMC specific functionality is being utilized and managed to support automation of the processes and functions required to provide JMC s with an overall positive buying and use experience.

The JMC hub may embody a commercial off the shelf COTS solution to allow for the lifecycle management and storage of linked accounts via a common identifier a JID JMC Identifier . The JMC hub may also allow for state and status management and provide a mechanism for JID assignment and distribution to the partners. In one implementation upon submission of the wireless order a request will be provided to the JMC hub to create a JID. The JMC hub may communicate the newly created JID to VzW and to the cable operator. Each company to which the JID was communicated may store the JID within their respective systems and may communicate its respective JID status to the JMC hub. The JMC hub may derive an overall JID status based upon each company s individual status. The JMC hub may allow customers of both VzW and the cable operators to take advantage of joint promotional offerings and services thereby facilitating business development.

The JMC hub may include those functions necessary to support the creation and management of the JID. The JMC hub may create the JID based upon triggers notifications from MSO and or VzW systems API based . The JMC hub may perform JMC assignment and mapping via JID Primary to Primary account mapping between MSO and VzW. This may be done with account numbers. Alternatively or additionally this may be done with unique identifiers customer IDs from the partners. It should also be noted that this is account linkage and not user linkage. In this manner the JMC hub may resolve the concern from both VzW and the cable provider about sharing customer information across companies. Neither VzW nor cable providers need to own the platform with cross company information. The JMC hub may provide notification to applicable companies as statuses change.

Assignment of the JID can take place in at least three distinct ways 1 through an MSO order process that completes both VzW and MSO orders in a two stage manner swivel chair 2 through a VzW order process that completes both VzW and MSO orders using an integrated order process system and 3 via a self registration process that leverages account or user information from VzW and from the associated MSO to establish the relationship. illustrates an exemplary MSO order process for assignment of JID and linking accounts and . illustrates an exemplary VzW order process for assignment of JID and linking accounts and . illustrates an exemplary self registration process for assignment of JID and linking accounts and .

Referring specifically to the process describes the use case where orders are taken by an MSO. In this scenario the processing of the MSO order is distinct from the processing of the VzW order but is undertaken by a single operator swivel chair . There may be two variants of the MSO submissions. One variant is for existing customers e.g. a customer that already exists in one or both of VzW and MSO systems and therefore already has accounts to reference . Upon successfully accessing the accounts and confirming the account match the JID can be assigned and references established. Another variant is for new customers e.g. customer accounts in the VzW and MSO systems are created during the order process . The JID can be assigned to the newly created accounts however due to the nature of the MSO account creation flow the MSO account may not be considered fully active until a confirmation flow is executed as described in more detail with respect to .

Referring again to the process begins with the customer also referred to herein as a user submitting an order for enhanced services offered by the joint agreement between the MSO and the VzW system to the MSO Step . The enhanced services may include for example allowing the customer to view eligible subscribed cable programming on the customer s mobile phone or allowing the customer to view the customer s mobile call logs from the customer s TV. If the order is not for enhanced services the MSO may handle the order independently without involving the JHUB .

The MSO submits the order in its system Step . If this is a new order an MSO customer ID may be generated however an MSO account may not be activated yet. If this is an update to an existing account then the account will already be active in the MSO system . In either case MSO may make a determination whether the user is eligible for such enhanced services and if not may take specific actions to make the user eligible. For example if the MSO determines that the user would need to sign a new contract or subscribe to a new service under the existing account the MSO informs the user of the same. Upon receiving the user s consent to the new agreement the MSO may approve the user s order request.

Once the MSO determines that the customer is eligible for the enhanced services the MSO operator may swivel chair to the VzW order processing system and log in to create an order in the VzW system Step . The operator may be a customer service representative of the MSO . The MSO operator may log into the Point of Sale POS offering of the VzW system . The VzW system includes a POS terminal which is a computerized device installed at a front end POS to deal with transactions such as opening a new subscriber s account or additional mobile telephones of existing subscribers and handling requests from subscribers regarding billing and or receiving enhanced services. The POS terminal has front end application software to perform various transactions and communications with other elements in the VzW system . At least logically the POS terminal may be directly connected to a centralized global router without involvement of any local billing data server hard wired to the POS terminal. The centralized global router is a device capable of computerized functions and has an Application Programming Interface API that allows the POS terminal to access a plurality of geographically distributed billing data servers that store billing data of subscribers located or homed in the same area as serviced by respective billing data servers.

The POS terminal references the billing data server to determine whether the order for enhanced services is a new order. If this is a new order then a new VzW account is created otherwise an existing VzW account will be accessed. Upon receiving the order at the VzW system the VzW system begins processing the order Step . As a part of processing the order the VzW system may review the customer s account to ensure the customer is eligible to receive the service desired from the VzW system . The eligibility requirement may vary for different mobile communication network providers. However in the VzW example the eligibility requirement may include the customer having a 3G or a more advanced e.g. 4G mobile phone. If the user does not meet such eligibility requirement the user may be instructed to bring himself herself in compliance with the requirement. For example the POS terminal may display a message to the user listing the eligibility requirements and highlighting the one the user should satisfy to become eligible for the enhanced services. For another example an e mail or an SMS message may be sent to the user s mobile phone listing the eligibility requirements and highlighting the one the user should satisfy to become eligible for the enhanced services. In the VzW example the user may be instructed to buy a 3G or a 4G mobile device. Upon purchase of the 3G or 4G mobile device the VzW system may approve the user s order request.

After approving the client s order or during the approval process the VzW system may send a VzW order confirmation message to the MSO to confirm that the VzW order has been placed Step . In response to receiving the VzW order confirmation message the MSO may pass the MSO customer ID to the VzW system Step . The MSO operator may manually enter the MSO customer ID into the VzW order processing system . This may be the case if the operator corresponds to a customer service representative of the MSO system . Alternatively if the operator corresponds to a software program the MSO operator may automatically enter the MSO customer ID in the VzW order processing system . The VzW system may request the JMC hub for creation of a JID for the customer Step . The request may include a Partner ID identifying the cable partner for which the JID is being requested. The Partner ID identifies the MSO system which has entered into a joint agreement with the VzW system for offering enhanced services. The request may also include the VzW customer ID and the MSO customer ID. The VzW customer ID and the MSO customer ID may be the actual account number associated with an account of the user at VzW system and MSO respectively. Alternatively the VzW customer ID and the MSO customer ID may be an adhoc temporary number associated with the account of the user in each of VzW system and MSO respectively. If adhoc temporary the customer ID of one entity may be stored in the billing system of the partner and may be associated with the customer account number of the partner. To this end the partner can reference the number of the one entity stored in the billing system of the partner to determine the user s subscription to the enhanced services. The request may also include VzW user account status information and MSO user account status information. The account status information may describe whether the user is successfully enrolled for receiving enhanced services at the various entities. The request may be submitted through an API and via a secure communication tunnel such as for example a Virtual Private Network VPN established between the VzW system and the JMC hub .

In response the JMC hub creates the JID Step and returns the JID to the VzW system Step . To create the JID Step the JMC hub may use a sequencing tool. The sequencing tool may create a unique JID value. The JID value may be numeric alphabetic or a combination of numeric and alphabetic characters. The VzW system records the JID in its internal system in association with the VzW customer ID Step . In one example the VzW system records the JID in a billing system that stores the customer s information. Assuming this is a new order the VzW system may then mark the order for enhanced services as complete Step . For example the VzW system may store in customer s profile that the customer has successfully registered for the enhanced services. The VzW system may then update the JID record with the MSO and VzW customer order IDs. The enhanced services may be provided to the user when the JID status is marked as Active as described in more details below.

Specifically the VzW system may send the VzW customer ID along with the MSO customer ID to the JMC hub Step . In a slightly different implementation the VzW system may send the VzW customer ID to the JMC hub . The VzW system may also forward the JID to the MSO and may request that the MSO forward the MSO customer ID to the JMC hub . The MSO may then forward the MSO customer ID along with the JID to the JMC hub . Whether the MSO customer ID is sent from the VzW system or the MSO to the JMC hub the JMC hub may update its record to register the VzW customer ID and the MSO customer ID against the JID Step . The JMC hub may start building a record for each of its issued JIDs. The record may include among others the MSO customer ID the VzW customer ID the status of MSO account the status of VzW account and the status associated with the JID. Within the JMC hub the JMC hub calculates the JID status based on the statuses of the VzW account and the MSO account. To this end part of the information that may be communicated to the JMC hub is the individual partner account statuses. The account status may include ready pending active and or inactive. Each of the partners may calculate its own account status based on actions specific to the customer s account in the partner.

The ready status may mean that the partner has gained consent from the customer to share customer information across the partner companies. The ready status may also mean that the customer has expressed interest in the enhanced services has met the partner s requirements to be registered for receiving enhanced services and is indeed registered for receiving the enhanced services. The customer s account for each of the partners may have to reflect ready before the JID status can be set to ready. The pending status may mean that the customer has to initiate some kind of order that makes the customer eligible for the enhanced services. The account pending status for example may reflect that the customer is in the process of satisfying the partner s requirement for receiving enhanced services. Alternatively or additionally the pending status may mean that the account supervisor at one or both of the systems and has to approve the enhanced services order for the user s account. As noted above the VzW requirement may be an active VZW wireless service whereas the MSO requirement may be registration for Broadband TV Voice. Once the partner s requirements are met the partner updates the customer profile to reflect the new account status of ready for the customer. The new account status may be reported to the JMC hub so that the JMC hub can modify the JID status based on the accounts statuses. The JID status will be described in more detail below.

Referring again to after updating the JID record with the VzW customer ID and the MSO customer ID Step the JMC hub confirms the update to the VzW system Step . The JMC hub may then set the status of the JID to pending Step and may notify the VzW system of the JID pending status Step . The notification message to the VzW system may include the VzW customer ID JID and JID status. Alternatively the notification message to the VzW system may include only the JID and the JID pending status. Similarly the JMC hub may inform the MSO of the JID and JID pending status Step . The notification message to the MSO may include the MSO customer ID JID and JID status. The MSO records JID in the account profile of the user Step . In one implementation the first status of the JID may be set to pending and may be later modified based on the account status information received from the partners and . This will be described in more detail below.

In another embodiment during submission to the VzW system the JID can be assigned to newly created accounts for new customers e.g. customer accounts in the VzW system and MSO are created during the order process . However in this case the MSO account may not be considered fully active until a confirmation flow is executed as shown for example in .

The process begins with the customer also referred to herein as a user submitting an order for enhanced services offered by the joint agreement between the MSO and the VzW system to the VzW system Step . If the order is not for enhanced services the VzW system may handle the order independently without involving the JMC hub . The enhanced services may include for example allowing the customer to view cable on the customer s mobile phone or take the call to the customer s mobile phone via the customer s television. The VzW representative goes to point of sales system to input the order. As pointed out above the VzW system includes a POS terminal which is a computerized device installed at a front end POS to deal with transactions such as opening a new subscriber s account or additional mobile telephones of existing subscribers and handling orders from subscribers regarding billing and or receiving enhanced services. The order may be a combined order for both VzW enhanced services and the MSO enhanced services. The VzW system may make a determination whether the customer is eligible for such VzW enhanced services and if not may take specific actions to make the customer eligible. For example if the VzW system determines that the customer would need to have a new phone to become eligible for VzW enhanced services the VzW system informs the customer of the same. For example the POS terminal may display a message to the user listing the eligibility requirements and highlighting the one the user should satisfy to become eligible for the enhanced services. For another example an e mail or an SMS message may be sent to the user s mobile phone listing the eligibility requirements and highlighting the one the user should satisfy to become eligible for the enhanced services.

The VzW representative may find the MSO that provides enhanced services for the customer Step . For example the VzW representative may get the address from the customer and find if there is an MSO that provides enhance services for that address. If so the VzW system may send an eligibility request to the MSO to determine whether the customer is eligible for receiving enhanced services Step . If the customer does not have an account with the MSO then the MSO will inform the VzW system of the same. At this point the VzW system may inform the customer and may request the customer to sign up for an account with the MSO directly or through the VzW system . If the customer has an existing account with the MSO but the account is not eligible for enhanced services the MSO may inform the VzW system of the same and may also inform the VzW system of the eligibility requirements. The VzW system may provide the customer with a venue to meet the MSO s eligibility requirements or may direct the customer to contact the MSO directly to meet the MSO s eligibility requirements.

Assuming the customer already has an account with the MSO and the account is eligible for receiving enhanced services the MSO confirms the account eligibility to the VzW system Step . With MSO eligibility confirmed VzW system continues to process the order for joint services and requests a JID for the new VzW account note that if the account is pre existing a JID may already exist for the account .

The VzW system may request the JMC hub for creation of a JID for the customer Step . In response the JMC hub creates the JID for the customer Step and returns the JID to the VzW system Step . To create the JID Step the JMC hub may use the oracle database sequencing tool. The sequencing tool may create a unique JID value. The JID value may be numeric alphabetic or a combination of the numbers and alphabets. The VzW system records the JID in its internal system. In one example the VzW system records the JID in a billing system for storing the customer s information. Assuming this is a new order for a new account the VzW system sets up a VzW account for the customer Step and assigns the JID to the account Step . The VzW system also creates a new VzW customer ID for the account. If this is an update to an existing account then the account will already be active in the VzW system and the VzW system creates a VzW customer ID for the existing account and assigns the JID along with the VzW customer ID to the existing account.

Having set up the VzW account VzW system informs the MSO of the order for enhanced service and submits the MSO part of the order to the MSO Step . The MSO receives the order and creates a MSO customer ID for the account associated with the user Step . In keeping with the previous example it is assumed that the customer ID is an adhoc temporary number associated with the account of the customer in the MSO . The MSO then reports the MSO customer ID to the VzW system Step . At this point the VzW system marks the order as complete Step . The VzW system also updates the JID record at the JMC hub with the MSO customer ID Step . The JID update message may include a Partner ID identifying the cable partner for which the JID is being requested. The Partner ID identifies the MSO which has entered into a joint agreement with the VzW system for offering enhanced service. The update may also include the VzW customer ID and the MSO customer ID. In keeping with the previous example the VzW customer ID is an adhoc temporary number associated with the account of the customer in the VzW system . The VzW customer ID may be stored in the billing system of the VzW system and may be associated with the customer s account number. To this end the VzW system can later reference the number to determine the customer s subscription to the enhanced services. The update may be submitted through an API and via a communication tunnel such as for example a VPN established between the VzW system and the JMC hub . The update message may also include account status information. The account status information may describe the status of the customer s account at the VzW system and at the MSO .

Upon receiving the JID update message from the VzW system the JMC hub updates the JID record Step and confirms the update to the VzW system Step . The JMC hub may also update the JID status from Not Ready or Pending to Ready Step . In this connection the JMC hub may reference the account status of the customer at the VzW system and the MSO and based on the account status of the customer at the VzW system and the MSO make a determination for the JID status. In this case if the VzW system and the MSO have both account ready status the JID status is also set to Ready. The JMC hub informs the VzW system of the new JID status Step and the VzW system records the new JID status against the VzW customer profile. The notification message to the VzW system may include the VzW customer ID the JID and the new JID status. Alternatively the notification message to the VzW system may include only the JID and the new JID ready status. Similarly the JMC hub informs the MSO of the new JID status Step and the MSO records the new JID status against the MSO customer profile. The notification message to the MSO may include the MSO customer ID the JID and the JID status.

In process the MSO provided the MSO customer ID to the VzW system and the VzW system update the JID record with the MSO customer ID. In a different implementation the MSO may receive the JID from the VzW system and may update the JID record at the JMC hub . To this end upon receiving the JID from the VzW system and creating the MSO customer ID the MSO submits the MSO customer ID and the JID to the JMC hub .

Previously described processes are generally applicable where new accounts are being established by the VzW system and the appropriate MSO . Where accounts are already established or where one account VzW or MSO is established and the other MSO or VzW is new a self registration process can be used to support the associating of the accounts. The application for the self registration process may be downloaded to the VzW device and activated by the customer . The application may identify itself with the VzW system . The VzW system having received the authentication request creates a JID and records the JID against the active VzW account. The JID may then be passed to the application which then requests that the customer authenticate to the MSO . The authentication may be performed using login credentials previously provided to the customer . The application may then pass the JID to the MSO and the MSO may update the JID record at the JMC hub with the MSO customer ID and records the JID reference against the active MSO account. Once the JID is set up the JMC hub may process the status and notify the VzW system and MSO of the current status of the JID. The interactions between the MSO VzW system and JMC hub in the self registration process is shown in more detail in .

The self registration application identifies with the VzW system Step . The self registration application provides the VzW system with authentication information. The authentication information may include the customer login information which was previously assigned to the customer by the VzW system . The authentication information may also include information about the customer s desire to subscribe to enhanced services such as for example a customer s request to view cable on the customer s mobile phone or take the call to the customer s mobile phone via the customer s TV. The VzW system performs the device authentication Step . As a part of the authentication the VzW system may also check to see if the customer is eligible to receive enhanced services. If not the VzW system may request that the customer take specific action to become eligible for enhanced services. For example the POS terminal may display a message to the user listing the eligibility requirements and highlighting the one the user should satisfy to become eligible for the enhanced services. For another example an e mail or an SMS message may be sent to the user s mobile phone listing the eligibility requirements and highlighting the one the user should satisfy to become eligible for the enhanced services. The VzW system may request the JID for the customer from the JMC hub Step . The JMC hub creates the reference JID Step and returns the JID to the VzW system Step . The VzW system records the JID against the customer s profile Step .

The VzW system forwards the JID to the self registration application Step . The self registration application subsequently requests the customer to log into the MSO Step and the login information for the MSO are received at the user device in Step . To this end the self registration application acts as a proxy to the MSO . The self registration application forwards the login information to the MSO Step which will authenticate the customer to the MSO system Step and confirm the authentication to the self registration application Step .

Upon receiving the confirmation the self registration application forwards the JID to the MSO Step . In response the MSO updates its record to include the JID therein. Specifically the MSO updates the customer s profile to include the JID information Step . The MSO may also create a MSO customer ID for the customer if one is not already generated. The MSO then forwards the MSO customer ID along with the JID to the JMC hub Step . The JMC hub updates the JID record to include therein the MSO customer ID Step and subsequently confirms the update to the MSO Step . In response the MSO confirms registration to the self registration application Step . The self registration application then confirms the registration to the customer Step .

The JMC hub also updates the status of the JID to Ready based on the status received from the MSO and VzW system Step . The JMC huh then informs the VzW system of the new JID status Step . The VzW system updates the VzW customer profile to include the new JID status. The JMC hub will also inform the MSO of the new JID status Step . The MSO updates the MSO customer profile to include the new JID status.

The process begins with the user submitting a cancellation account request to the MSO Step . The MSO cancels the account and reports the same to the JMC hub Step . The JMC hub recognizes the change of status in the MSO account and sets the JID status to inactive Step . The JMC hub then informs the VzW system and the MSO of the new JID Inactive status Steps and . The JMC hub may maintain a timer to determine the amount of time e.g. number of days the JID status remains inactive. If the number of days passes a certain threshold e.g. 30 days the JMC hub may purge the JID record Step . The JMC hub may then inform the VzW system and the MSO of the purging of the JID record Steps and . The VzW system and MSO may also remove the JID along with the VzW customer ID and the MSO customer ID from the customer s profile in each of their databases.

A number of JID status changes can occur triggered by a variety of VzW or MSO account changes. For example in addition to the cancellation scenario described above a JID status change may be based on re activation of a previously cancelled account within the threshold time period. In keeping with the previous example the flow of shows the JID status change based on activation of the previously cancelled MSO account.

Customer consent may be a pre requisite to the associating of a VzW and associated MSO account and may be part of the MSO VZW and Self Registration processes. Retraction of customer consent may break the association and remove shared data. The customer consent may consist of agreeing to terms and conditions including the need for data sharing between the MSO and VzW.

As noted above the JMC hub may be responsible for maintaining the accurate status of JID for each account relationship e.g. pairing between VzW and MSO accounts . The JID status may be in one of multiple shown herein as five valid states with transitions 1 Ready the initial state for a JID if the customer has provided a consent to pair VzW and MSO accounts 2 Pending a state that represents an expectation of becoming Active 3 Active when VzW system and MSO indicate eligibility 4 Suspend when VzW system or MSO indicates ineligibility which may be temporary and can change based upon further notifications from VzW system or MSO or may be time based in which case the JMC hub may maintain rules to change this automatically and 5 Inactive the end state prior to removal of the JID reference. After a period of time in the Inactive state or immediately upon entering the Inactive state as business rules dictate reference to the JID and its status may be removed from the JMC hub and the VzW system and MSO may be notified that their JID data is no longer valid. In one implementation only the Active status allows the MSO system and the VzW system to provide the customer with the enhanced services.

A sub set of the state changes may be implemented for the JID. The JMC hub contains rules and handle the sub set of state changes programmatically to map each of the MSO and VzW status to an overall JID status as shown in Table below. The sub set may include an initial state creation establishing the JID and establishing a Ready status. The initial state may happen in the JMC hub and upon receiving a request from MSO or the VzW system a request for a JID. The sub set may also include a pending sub state where the necessary conditions are required by both the VzW system and the MSO for a given state change e.g. the change from Ready to Active may require both the VzW system and the MSO to indicate Active eligibility or where either the VzW system or the MSO can present the necessary condition for a state change e.g. the change from Active to Inactive that can occur when the VzW system or the MSO indicate that their account has been closed and is now Inactive . The pending state may also happen in the JMC hub . The sub set may also include a final state removal clearing all records of the JID and its associations as takes place after a JID has remained in an inactive state for for example 30 days.

To this end the instant application describes a JMC hub for linking of the accounts associated with customers of a mobile communication network provider e.g. VzW and a content provider e.g. MSO who have entered into a joint relationship agreement. The linked accounts in the VzW system and the MSO may access the enhanced services offered by the virtue of joint relationship agreement between the VzW system and the MSO . Each of the linked accounts in the VzW system and the MSO may include a JID created by the JMC hub .

The JMC hub may include those functions necessary to support the creation and management of the JID. The JMC hub may create the JID based upon triggers notifications from the MSO and or the VzW system . The JID includes a status identifier which is controlled by the JMC hub . If the status identifier is active both the MSO and the VzW system allow access to the enhanced services otherwise the access may be denied until the JID status becomes active for each of the VzW and MSO accounts. The JMC hub may provide notification to the VzW system and the MSO as JID status changes.

The JMC hub may perform JMC assignment and mapping via JID Primary to Primary account mapping between the MSO and the VzW system . This may be done with account numbers. Alternatively or additionally this may be done with unique identifiers customer IDs from the partners. In this manner the JMC hub may resolve the concern from both the VzW system and the MSO about sharing customer information across companies. Neither the VzW system nor the MSO need to own the platform with cross company information.

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to allowing the customer to register for enhanced services offered by a joint agreement between the VzW system and the MSO may be implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network operating as MSO JMC hub and the VzW system as shown in . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server programming so as to implement the functions for generating JID for linked accounts which were discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for generating JID for linked accounts. The software code is executable by the general purpose computer that functions as JMC hub. In operation the code is stored within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Execution of such code by a processor of the computer platform enables the platform to implement the methodology for generating the JID for linked accounts in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data tiles to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

A computer type user terminal device such as a PC or tablet computer similarly includes a data communication interface CPU main memory and one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs. A mobile device type user terminal may include similar elements but will typically use smaller components that also require less power to facilitate implementation in a portable form factor. The various types of user terminal devices will also include various user input and output elements. A computer for example may include a keyboard and a cursor control selection device such as a mouse trackball joystick or touchpad and a display for visual outputs. A microphone and speaker enable audio input and output. Some smartphones include similar but smaller input and output elements. Tablets and other types of smartphones utilize touch sensitive display screens instead of separate keyboard and cursor control elements. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such user terminal devices also are conventional in nature and it is presumed that those skilled in the art are adequately familiar therewith.

Hence aspects of the methods of generating the JID for linked accounts outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the wide area network provider e.g. LTE network provider into the computer platform of the JMC hub. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the functionalities relating to generating the JID for linked accounts shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media includes dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. For example the mobile communication network provider e.g. VzW may be associated with multiple MSOs for multiple clients. Each MSO may include a Partner ID. The JMC hub creates a JID and assigns the JID to each of the MSOs. For example two customers located in Seattle Wash. may have access to both Comcast and FIOS for receiving TV services. Each of the Comcast and FIOS provider may join the mobile communication network provider to provide the customers with enhanced services.

For example if one customer wishes to receive enhanced services offered by the join agreement between the FIOS provider and the mobile communication network provider the customer requests the service and submits consent to the association of the customer s FIOS account and the mobile provider account at the JMC hub. The JMC hub creates a JID forwards the JID to the FIOS and the mobile provider and once the JID achieves an active status based on discussion above the JMC hub provides the enhanced services to the user. For another example if the other customer wishes to receive enhanced services offered by the joint agreement between the Comcast provider and the mobile communication network provider the customer requests the service and submits consent to the association of the customer s Comcast account and the mobile provider account at the JMC hub. The JMC hub creates another JID forwards the JID to Comcast and the mobile provider and once the JID achieves an active status the JMC hub provides the enhanced services to the user.

The JMC hub may provide support for maintenance and replication of JMC hub data. For example the JMC hub may support vertical and horizontal scaling of data to insure the JMC hub grows as the customer base grows. The MSO and VzW may have secure access to the JMC hub and its database. The secure access may identifies the individuals who can access the hub from different partners and their level of access. The level of access may define what the individual can see and what kind of updates and or audits the individual can perform. For example the individual may be given access to update the audit logs which keep record of all hub s activities.

The JMC hub may also include a refresh function so should the hub crash all hub s data may be reloaded back to the JMC hub. The data may be reloaded from a remote server. Alternatively the data may be obtained from the MSO and VzW.

The partners may communicate with the JMC hub using an interface. For example the JMC hub may allow opening of a particular API that is going to expose the status of the JID. Then when the VzW or MSO wants this information the VzW or the MSO can make a call to this interface to pull the information from the JMC hub. The Request HD interface allows the VzW to request a JID from the hub. The update JID interface allows the VzW and the MSO to update data associated with a JID but separate from modification of the JID status. The Confirm Account Submit interface allows the MSO to confirm and update a previously established MSO reference of a JID record. Similarly the Confirm Account Submit interface may allow the VzW to confirm and update a previously established MSO reference of a JID record. The Set JID Status allows the VzW or the MSO to update their status associated with an account as referenced by a JID. The Set JID Status Notification allows the JMC hub to notify the VzW and the MSO of the JID status update.

Other implementations are contemplated. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings. Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections or of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

