---

title: Soft error resilient circuit design method and logic cells
abstract: A method is disclosed for creating a logic integrated circuit cell from an original logic integrated circuit gate. The method includes combining the original logic integrated circuit cell with a second circuit which takes as input a complement of inputs of the original logic integrated circuit cell and provides as output complements of the output of the original logic integrated circuit cell. The method further includes connecting the combined logic integrated circuit cells, where the outputs of the combined integrated circuit cells provide the inputs for other combined circuit cells such that, when the output of the original logic integrated circuit from a first combined logic integrated circuit cell is connected as input to a second combined logic integrated circuit cell, then the output of the second circuit in the first combined logic integrated circuit cell is always also connected to the second combined logic integrated circuit cell serving as the inverse of the input signals that come from the original logic integrated circuit cell.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09083341&OS=09083341&RS=09083341
owner: 
number: 09083341
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20121203
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 763 139 filed on Apr. 19 2010 and entitled SOFT ERROR HARD ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT AND LAYOUT which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 277 135 filed on Oct. 19 2011 and entitled LAYOUT METHOD FOR SOFT ERROR HARD ELECTRONICS AND RADIATION HARDENED LOGIC CELL and further claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 630 008 filed on Dec. 2 2011 entitled SOFT ERROR HARD ELECTRONICS LAYOUT ARRANGEMENT AND LOGIC CELLS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety U.S. application Ser. No. 12 763 139 is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 354 655 filed on Jan. 15 2009 entitled LAYOUT METHOD FOR SOFT ERROR HARD ELECTRONICS AND RADIATION HARDENED LOGIC CELL which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and further claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 214 071 filed on Apr. 20 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 335 845 filed Jan. 12 2010 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 336 027 filed on Jan. 15 2010 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 338 710 filed on Feb. 23 2010 U.S. application Ser. No. 13 277 135 is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 354 655 which further claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 011 599 filed on Jan. 17 2008 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 011 989 filed on Jan. 22 2008 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 068 483 filed on Mar. 7 2008 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 123 003 filed on Apr. 5 2008.

This invention was made with Government support under contract HDTRA1 11 P 0018 awarded by DTRA. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

In one instance the present invention is related generally to circuits and circuit layouts for logic circuits in which the logic circuit is protected against soft errors non destructive errors and or in which the effects of soft errors are greatly reduced. The circuits and methods discussed herein may be particularly useful for complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS based logic circuits in modern technologies 90 nm . Unique circuit configurations as disclosed herein may protect the circuits against single event generated soft errors.

Soft errors generated by single event transients and single event upsets are expected to increase drastically in ultra deep submicron 

One reason for this increase is that with a higher feature integration and higher frequencies the spatial distribution and pulse length of a single event transient SET becomes become relatively larger increasing the probability that an SET pulse is latched in as a soft error or that SET pulses are generated simultaneously on several circuit nodes by one single event.

Increasing soft error rates is further complicated by the escalating cost of semiconductor design and manufacturing. The high cost involved in developing and maintaining a semiconductor fabrication plant FAB makes it highly desirable to use standard commercial semiconductor manufacturing also for application that require a high radiation tolerance. Hence there is a need to develop efficient and robust radhard by design RHBD techniques for these applications.

Furthermore the design process is also becoming very complex and expensive and it would be desirable to be able to re use standard design intellectual property IP and libraries as much as possible for radhard applications.

Current radhard by design technology for single event errors include triplication triple mode redundancy TMR or duplication built in soft error resilience BiSER of circuits combined some form of voting circuitry. These techniques generate undesirable power and area overhead and current versions of these techniques cannot handle MBUs or SEMUs. Error correction codes ECC for memory which also loosely could be classified as RHBD is more efficient than duplication triplication and can with additional overhead handle multiple errors in memory circuitry. However the application of a corresponding error correction to logic circuits is very limited and application specific e.g. selective parity check or insertion of specialized checking circuit IP .

State of the art for layout techniques for soft error hard design mainly consist of simple spacing and sizing and in adding additional contacts.

The inverse or complement of an output or input is the opposite value of the voltage of the circuit node with respect to the application. In a binary logic circuit each output or input is either high or low represented by two different voltage values which are the inverse of each other. Similarly for other application the inverse of a signal is defined by the states or conditions the circuit can be in.

In various embodiments provided are computer implemented systems useful in designing and or making logic circuit cells methods of making logic circuit cells and circuit layouts and logic circuit cells and components as well as associated layouts. Also provided are two explicit combinational logic cells an XOR NXOR and an OR NOR gate created using this method and their physical layout arrangement are examples of logic cells.

Before explaining the various embodiments of the soft error hard electronics layout arrangement and logic cells in detail it should be noted that the various embodiments disclosed herein are not limited in their application or use to the details of construction and arrangement of parts illustrated in the accompanying drawings and description. Rather the disclosed embodiments are may be positioned or incorporated in other embodiments variations and modifications thereof and may be practiced or carried out in various ways. Accordingly embodiments of the soft error hard electronics layout arrangement and logic cells disclosed herein are illustrative in nature and are not meant to limit the scope or application thereof. Furthermore unless otherwise indicated the terms and expressions employed herein have been chosen for the purpose of describing the embodiments for the convenience of the reader and are not to limit the scope thereof. In addition it should be understood that any one or more of the disclosed embodiments expressions of embodiments and or examples thereof can be combined with any one or more of the other disclosed embodiments expressions of embodiments and or examples thereof without limitation.

In the following description like reference characters designate like or corresponding parts throughout the several views. Also in the following description it is to be understood that terms such as front back inside outside top bottom and the like are words of convenience and are not to be construed as limiting terms. Terminology used herein is not meant to be limiting insofar as devices described herein or portions thereof may be attached or utilized in other orientations. The various embodiments will be described in more detail with reference to the drawings.

Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention provides a procedure to automatically simplify the logic integrated circuit which has been automatically generated by starting from any initial logic circuit combining the initial circuit with a second logic circuit and then simplifying the combined circuit to generate a new combined circuit. The automated procedure is performed by a computer which takes the original circuit as input generates the second circuit performs the analysis steps in the procedure and generates the new combined circuit.

In one embodiment the procedure disclosed herein for creating a new generated circuit is done in such a way that an efficient layout can be automatically created for the circuit using. By way of example the procedure disclosed herein may employ the method of making an integrated circuit disclosed in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 354 655 and 12 763 139 each of which is incorporated by reference herein as if put forth in full below. Since a layout fully specifies an integrated circuit and can be transformed to the integrated circuit itself by sending the layout to a manufacturing facility e.g. a semiconductor foundry a final integrated circuit may be created by the present method.

In one embodiment the method takes as input a specification netlist for a logic circuit with inputs and outputs. The method then generates a new second circuit cell and its layout whereby the second circuit is such that it takes as input both the input of an original cell and the inverse of the input of the original cell and generates as output both the output of the original cell and the inverse of the output of the original cell for each combination of inputs of the original cell . The new second cell is here denoted as an inverse redundant IR circuit and the resulting circuit which combines the original cell and the IR cell the combined dual inverse redundant CDIR cell. As mentioned above the CDIR cell is such that it can very effectively be laid out using the layout methodology disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655. The logic that uses CDIR cells and carries both the original data signal and the inverse of the data signal is denoted the CDIR logic.

The inverse or complement of an output or input is the opposite value of the voltage of the circuit node with respect to the application. In a binary logic circuit each output or input is either high or low represented by two different voltage values which are the inverse of each other. Similarly for other application the inverse of a signal is defined by the states or conditions the circuit can be in.

In accordance with the disclosed embodiments method is provided to automatically simplify the new second IR circuit cell. The method also comprises an exclusive OR gate XOR and its complement XNOR and a transmission gate based OR and its complement AND cell which have been generated using this method and laid out using the method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655.

As described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 139 when the CDIR cells are laid out using the layout methodology disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655 an error cannot occur on both the data signals. Therefore any error pulses can be filtered out by inserting filters that filter the signal if the data signal and the dual inverse of the data signal are the same and not the inverse of each other . Such filtering can be achieved by the special latch and special flip flop disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 139 or by any other type of filter.

In one embodiment the method to simplify the CDIR cell benefits from the fact that both the original signal and its inverse are readily available in the logic and therefore if the original circuit cell uses the inverse of the original data somewhere in its implementation this inverse data does not have to be generated by the cell itself but instead the readily available input from the logic of the inverse of the original signal is used. Conversely if the new second IR cell uses the original data somewhere in its implementation this signal does not have to be generated by the cell itself by inverting the input of the IR cell back to the original data instead it can use the readily available original input data.

However since the error correctness will not be maintained if an error is generated on both of the signals of the logic it cannot be filtered i.e. both on the output of the original cell and on the output of the new second cell it must first be ensured that one single error on any of the original inputs or the inverse inputs cannot generate an error on both of the outputs. A logic cell can be implemented in many different ways and many standard implementation and methods to implement a specific logic functions in different ways using different semiconductor devices are available in the literature and in the engineering and scientific community. Therefore a CDIR cell that can be simplified as described herein may be possible for some implementations of the original and the CDIR cell function but not for others. However the number of different methods fro implementing a circuit function with a certain set of electronic devices for example n type MOSFETs and p type MOSFETs is finite and since the circuit should use as few devices as possible it is actually quite small and all possible implementation can be explored.

In one embodiment a procedure and criterion for the simplification of the CDIR implementation of a certain circuit is 

PROCEDURE For an implementation of the original circuit and for its CDIR complement for each combination of the inputs find the output of the original gate and of the CDIR gate when an error occurs on one and only one input of the original or the CDIR gate.

CRITERION If there is no such input errors for none of the input combinations generate an error on both the output of the original circuit cell and on the IR cell then the simplification can be made i.e. the dual inverse signal from the logic feeding the circuit can be used as the inverse of the original inputs to the original gate and the original signal from the logic can be used as the inverse of the inputs to the IR gate. All circuitry that is not needed in either cell after this replacement of input signals can be removed.

A computer when executing executable instructions according to the computer implemented method applies all possible input combinations to the CDIR circuit calculates the value of all the outputs and evaluates the criterion. When the criterion is fulfilled the computer implemented method removes all parts of the circuit associated with inverting an input signal and generates the new circuit. As discussed herein using the computer implemented method of making the layout and thereby the final integrated circuit the final integrated circuit is generated by the computer implemented method.

Applying the procedure to an implementation of an exclusive OR function XOR provides a novel CDIR XOR gate. This XOR gate which also implements an XNOR function has been laid out using the methodology disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655. The IR cell for the original XOR cell is an NXOR gate operating on the inverse of the two original inputs. A truth table of both the original XOR and the corresponding IR cell are shown in .

The error analysis according to the procedure disclosed above has been carried out for the IR XNOR gate shown in . is a table that tabulates an error analysis for an XOR CDIR circuit using a procedure in accordance with one embodiment. An error bold and centered number is injected on each of the inputs for each circuit state of the IR XNOR gate . In the right two columns the output is evaluated and an erroneous output is shown in bold with centered number. As can be seen at the right portion of the table shown in the criterion is fulfilled in none of the cases does one input error generate an error on both outputs. Since the criterion is fulfilled the input inverters in the original XOR cell and the IR XNOR gate can be removed by replacing aby ai and bby bi in the original gate and by replacing aiby a and biby b in the IR XNOR gate circuit. is a schematic of one implementation of a completed CMOS based CDIR XOR cell after removal of the input inverters by replacing aby ai and bby bi in the original gate and by replacing aiby a and biby b in the IR XNOR gate circuit.

A layout is now generated for the combined CMOS based CDIR XOR cell using the general methodology disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655. The resulting principle layout is shown in which illustrates one embodiment of a layout for the CMOS based CDIR XOR cell shown in . While the individual circuit the original and the IR circuit in most cases will be a known circuits their combination to a circuit that implements the CDIR logic and their combined layout according to the methodology disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 354 655 and 12 763 139 provides a novel and unique integrated circuit which has very special properties with respect to single event generated soft errors.

In one embodiment the methodology disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 354 655 and 12 763 139 provides a duplicated combinational circuit. The duplicated combinational circuit carries a primary and a redundant copy of the data signal the redundant signal being the inverse of the primary signal and where each logic gate consists of a regular logic gate operating on the primary signal and of an inverse logic gate being the inverse of the regular logic gate operating on the redundant inverse signal the inverse logic gate having the function provided by inverting every signal in the truth table for the regular logic gate. The duplicated combinational circuit includes a layout arrangement where a the combined regular and inverse logic gate is laid out such that there is no straight line between two contact areas in the layout for which a single event have the same effect on the state of the circuit unless there is another contact area in between the first two contact areas for which a single event has the opposite effect on the state of the circuit i.e. if a single event affecting a first contact area has the effect of creating an error on the primary signal and a single event on a second node has the effect of creating an error on the redundant inverse signal then one or more third contact areas for which a single event has the opposite effect of the that on the first or second contact areas should be placed in between the first and second contact areas. Black full line stripes are the gate shapes annotated on top with the circuit node from that they are connected to . The dashed shapes are the active regions and the position of each source drain contact area is annotated with the contact node from to which it is connected. The devices inside the dashed dotted line are the p type MOSFETs inside the n well and the ones outside this regions to the left are the n type MOSFETs.

An explicit transmission gate based OR circuit generated in the same way as the CMOS based XOR circuit above is also part of one embodiment of the invention. This circuit and its principle layout is shown in where is one embodiment of a schematic of one implementation of a completed CMOS based CDIR OR circuit using transmission gates. With this original OR gate and this IR gate which implements the AND function on the inverse of the inputs of the original gate the criterion for use with the CDIR logic is fulfilled and inverters removed from both original and IR circuits .

In one embodiment a physical layout for a semiconductor integrated circuit is provided. The physical layout implements the circuit in accordance with computer implemented methods and generated according to the layout method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655 as disclosed herein. The integrated circuit comprising a physical arrangement where the contact areas of devices have been placed along a line in a substrate and where n type contact areas which are connected to output s q of an original circuit n q and connected to output s qi of a second circuit n qi and p type contact areas which are connected to q p q and to qi p qi are ordered along the line in such a way that in between an n q node and a p qi node there is always at least one n qi node and or at least one p q node and that in between an n qi node and a p q node there is always at least one n q node and or at least one p qi node. Possible orderings include without limitation n q n qi p qi p q n q n qi n q n qi p qi p q p qi p q p q n q n qi p qi n q p q p qi n qi .

In one embodiment a circuit cell is provided that implements an exclusive OR XOR logic function using CMOS technology. The physical layout of the circuit is implemented in accordance with computer implemented methods and and is generated according to the layout method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655 as described herein. The CMOS based XOR logic function comprises 8 n type MOSFET devices and eight p type MOSFET devices four input signals a b ai bi wherein ai is the inverse complement of a and bi is the inverse complement of b. A power node VDD is connected to the HIGH voltage for the logic and a ground node GND is connected to LOW voltage for the logic. Two output nodes q and qi wherein qi is the inverse complement of q. The CMOS based XOR logic function further comprises a connection of the devices such that the output node q provides the XOR function of the two inputs a and b and the output node qi provides the complement of the exclusive or function NXOR on the two inputs ai and bi.

In another embodiment the CMOS based XOR logic function further comprises a circuit cell comprising six internal circuit nodes p n n p p n connected between the MOSFET devices. A connection is provided between the eight p type MOSFETs where the source gate drain nodes are connected as follows vdd a p vdd b p p ai q p bi q vdd a p vdd a p p bi qi p b qi . A connection is provided between the eight n type MOSFETs where the source gate drain nodes are connected as follows gnd b n gnd b n n n ai q gnd a n gnd b n n ai qi n bi qi . Any other connection between the devices which gives the XOR function on the inputs a and b on node q and the complement of the XOR function on the inputs ai and bi on the node qi. A physical layout arrangement where the contact areas are ordered along a line in the layout according to the physical layout implements the circuit in accordance with computer implemented methods and generated according to the layout method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 354 655 and 12 763 139 as disclosed herein. A physical layout arrangement is provided where the contact areas are ordered along a line in the layout with the following order gnd n n q n gnd n n q n gnd vdd p p q p vdd p p q p vdd 

In one embodiment a circuit cell is provided that implements an OR logic function using transmission gate MOSFET technology. The physical layout of the OR circuit cell is implemented in accordance with computer implemented methods and and is generated according to the layout method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655 as described herein. The OR circuit cell which implements the OR logic function using transmission gate MOSFET technology comprises three n type MOSFET devices and three p type MOSFET devices four input signals a b ai bi whereby ai is the inverse complement of a and bi is the inverse complement of b. A power node VDD is provided which is connected to the HIGH voltage for the logic and a ground node GND which is connected to LOW voltage for the logic. Two output nodes q and qi are provided where qi is the inverse complement of q. A connection of the devices is provided such that the output node q provides the OR logic function of the two inputs a and b and the output node qi provides the complement of the OR logic function AND on the two inputs ai and bi.

In one embodiment the circuit cell is provided that implements an OR logic function using transmission gate MOSFET technology further comprises a connection between the three p type MOSFETs where the source gate drain nodes are connected as follows vdd ai q b bi q bi a qi . A connection between the eight n type MOSFETs where the source gate drain nodes are connected as follows gnd a qi bi b qi b ai q . Any other connection between the devices which gives the OR logic function on the inputs a and b on node q and the complement of the OR function on the inputs ai and bi on the node qi. A physical layout arrangement where the contact areas are ordered along a line in the layout that implements the circuit in accordance with computer implemented methods and generated according to the layout method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655 as disclosed herein. A physical layout arrangement where the contact areas are orders along a line in the layout with the following order n bi n qi gnd n b n q p b p q vdd p bi p qi where n denotes contact areas of n type MOSFETs and p denotes contact areas of p type MOSFETs.

One embodiment the layout methodology to combinational logic disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 139 uses redundant logic. Based on that method a particular way to construct such redundant logic gates from regular non redundant logic gates is provided. Once such a redundant gate has been constructed it can be laid out using the layout methodology in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655. A specific redundant NAND gate constructed in this way and its principal layout configuration is disclosed. The duplicated redundant NAND gate netlist and principal layout are shown in respectively where is one embodiment of a duplicated logic carrying the signal and its inverse i.e. a NAND gate and the inverse NAND gate i.e. a NOR gate and is a principal layout using the layout technique according to one embodiment of the invention for the duplicated NAND gate from .

When a duplicated logic is used then either errors need to be filtered before they are latched into sequential elements or alternatively both combinational logic and sequential elements are duplicated for portions of the circuit and at the output of this circuit portion the error can be detected. In the latter case the error is not automatically corrected but rather some other means to correct the error must be invoked e.g. a repeat of the activity in the circuit portion that generated the error. In the former case a filter is applied before every latch which only allows the latch to read in data only when the two duplicated signal are correctly the inverse of each other. One way to accomplish such filtering is by using the filtering DICE latch described above. Alternatively it may be advantageous to introduce a stand alone filter either prior to a regular latch or somewhere else in the chain of combinational logic. This filter should be such that a signal is only allowed to pass when the two inputs are correctly the inverse of each other. If the two input signals are the same the filter should block the signal. The netlist using two coupled c elements where the output of one c element is coupled to one of the inputs of the other c element is a way to realize such a filter. This filter circuit is such that it can be laid out according to the new layout methodology making the filter itself hard to single event upsets. The combined circuit and layout of this filter is part of one embodiment of this invention where is a filter cell for dual inverse logic where the two output nodes are numbered 0 out and 1 out and is a layout using the layout methodology for the filter shown in where n and p are the n type and p type drain contact area of the output node out respectively and n and p are the n type and p type drain contact area of the output node out respectively.

An alternative to a duplication of the logic signal is to use triple mode redundancy TMR in which three copies of the same logic signal is carried by three copies of the logic gates and a voting among the three signals is applied to correct errors to one of the three signal copies. In such circuits a voting circuit needs to be used which itself should be very hard against single event errors. One embodiment of the invention entails two different interleaved DICE type latches which takes three signals as input and performs a voting on these three signals upon latching in a new data. If one of the three input signals has an error i.e. is different from the other two these latches will upon closing switching from open transparent to closed opaque correct the erroneous input signal. Both these voting latches are such that they effectively can be laid out using the layout methodology of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655.

The duplicated logic discussed above is such that only one but never both of the two signals carried by the logic can have an error at a particular time but never both. When several of these type of duplicated logic cells are connected to form a combinational logic chain there is a possibility that an error pulse is generated on one of the signals in a certain gate and that an error signal is generated on the other signal by the same single event in another logic gate. If the connection of these two logic gates is such that these two current pulses can overlap in time then both of the duplicated signals could be wrong and the filtering would not work. However the nature of the layout of the duplicated logic cells described above will be such that if they are placed in a certain way relative to each other then it can be ensured that if the single event generates an error pulse in both the cells then it will always be on the same signal i.e. this error will be filtered by the filtering described above .

The layout for duplicated logic gates generated using the methodology in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 354 655 will generally have all nodes placed along a line in the layout. A concrete example is the duplicated NAND gate discussed above. If two such cells are placed next to each other along this line in the layout and such that the contact area s which are closest to the abutting edge of the two cells are such that a single event that affects these nodes generate an error pulse on the same signal then it is ensured that there can be no single event affecting these two cells that can generate a single event on both of the two signals carried by the logic.

If other cells are placed next to the first cell in the direction of reduced single event impact and these other cells have a layout and orientation which also reduces the single event impact in the same direction as the first cell then the effect of a single event that affect two or more of these cell and hence has the direction of these cells i.e. the direction of reduced impact will be strongly reduced . Hence the probability to generate an error in two or more of these cells by one single event will be strongly reduced compared to the case when the cells are placed next to each other in a direction that does not have this reduced single event impact see . An example application of this inter cell arrangement is for an SRAM cell array e.g. see which shows an SRAM cell laid out to have a reduced error cross section in the horizontal direction the direction of Next SRAM cell same word where d0 and dl are the stored data w is the word line bit and bit b are the bit lines.

Finally a specific implementation of the method described herein is devised whereby each or some contact areas are connected via a MOSFET to another contact area of the same type which is connected to one of the power lines. For an n type drain contact area an n type MOSFET is added next to said contact area the source of which is connected to the high power VDD and the gate of which is always connected to the low power VSS . While this MOSFET will always be off during regular operation the adjacent contact area connected to VDD will help reduce the effect of a single event on the first contact area by collecting some of the single event charge and by pulling the voltage of the first contact area towards VDD this is an advantage since for n type drains in a CMOS technology a single event only generates an error signal when the data value on the node connected to the contact area is high if the data value is low a single event will try to pull the value on the node still lower which will not cause an error . Similarly for a p type drain contact area a p type MOSFET is added next to said contact area the source of which is connected to the low power VSS and the gate of which is always connected to the high power VDD .

One embodiment of this invention comprises a unique new layout method which takes advantage of the overall circuit response to a single event effect. It also includes specific circuit cells with layout which have been constructed in accordance with the new layout method.

A radiation generated single event soft error SEE occurs when the charge generated in the semiconductor material by one or more e.g. secondary charged particles is collected by contact areas. The contact areas are the low resistivity regions on or in the semiconductor substrate which are connected to a net in the circuit e.g. the source and drain areas in a MOSFET technology. A circuit net or node refers to a part of the circuit connected by low resistivity regions metal which maintains a certain voltage value referred to as the voltage state of the net throughout its extent. A net can be connected to any number of contact areas.

The charge collected by contact areas during a single event leads to current pulses in the circuit which in their turn cause a change in the voltage of the circuit nets connected to these contact areas i.e. a voltage pulse in the circuit. These pulses can upset a sequential element latch flip flop or propagate through combinational logic i.e. a set of digital logic gates and be latched in as errors at the next sequential element in the circuit.

The effect of a single event on the voltage on the circuit net is different for different contact areas e.g. a single event can have the effect of increasing the voltage on the net connected to the contact area or decreasing it depending on where the contact areas are located in substrate and how they are connected to the circuit. The method in accordance with one embodiment of this invention uses an arrangement of contact areas in such a way that single event generated pulses in the circuit that occur on multiple contact areas acts to oppose each other with respect to the effects they have on the voltage of the circuit nets and hence cancel or greatly reduce the effect of the single event .

The method also comprises an adjustment the strength of the effect a single event has on the voltage of the circuit nets when this is desirable to achieve the desired total effect on the circuit. This adjustment can be achieved by changing the sizes of the contact areas and by changing their positions relative to other components in the layout.

The method can be applied to sequential logic elements latches flip flops memory cells to combinational logic a connection of one or more digital logic gates or to analog circuit cells.

In the following two section details of two specific ways to apply the method are described. The first section 4.1 uses a placement and strength adjustment such that the single event effects on several contact areas cancel out each other in terms of their effect on the circuit nets they are connected to. The second section 4.2 uses a placement and strength adjustment such that two or more redundant nets in the circuit are affected differently by a single event in such a way that a single event cannot simultaneously change their voltage state on several of the redundant nets.

1. Identify which contact areas have opposing effects on the circuit nets when they are simultaneously affected by a single event

2. Place these nodes in the layout next to each other and in a fully symmetric way with respect to other adjacent contact areas

a. In particular in a CMOS technology the contact are configured in a symmetric equivalent position with respect to well junctions and well contacts

b. If the two contact areas are part of a sequential element e.g. a latch this arrangement ensures that these two nodes cannot be upset by a single event that affects both areas i.e. an event which has an extended charge e.g. as generated by a charged particle passing through which is in such a direction that it affects both these nodes.

c. If nodes are part of a combinational element the arrangement ensures that the generated output pulse is greatly suppressed when the generation single event affects both nodes i.e. an event which has an extended charge e.g. as generated by a charged particle passing through which is in such a direction that it affects both these nodes.

3. In an element using additional protective circuitry redundant nets place the contact areas of the redundant nets in a direction which is such that when the charge from one single event effects both primary and redundant nets it is in the direction which is such that it always also affects both opposing nodes in either the primary or the secondary circuit or that it affects the opposing node of both primary and secondary circuit.

Specifically for CMOS technology step one and two above would use the following to characterize the effect of a single event on a source or drain contact area 

a. When an n drain or source is affected by a single event the effect of the single event is to reduce the voltage on the net connected to this contact area i.e. if the node is high is will tend to switch the voltage when the node is low it will not tend to switch the voltage.

b. When an n drain or source is affected by a single event the effect of the single event is to reduce the voltage on the net connected to this contact area i.e. if the node is high is will tend to switch the voltage when the node is low it will not tend to switch the voltage.

Also specifically for a CMOS technology step 3 above would use the following rules for two nodes each connected to a net carrying redundant signals primary and secondary nets 

a. When two n drains or sources one connected to the primary net and one to the secondary net are affected by a single event and they always have opposite voltage states then only one of the primary secondary nets can be upset i.e. change its voltage .

b. When two p drains or sources one connected to the primary and one to the secondary net are affected by a single event and they always have opposite voltage states then only one of the primary secondary circuits can be upset.

c. When an n drain or source from one net and a p drain or source from the other net is affected are affected by a single event and the nets connected to these drains sources always have the same voltage state then only one of the primary secondary nets can be upset.

For the case of an element that uses primary and redundant nets to store the state i.e. the voltage or signal an alternative to synthesizing a layout where single event effects cancel out each other is to deliberately let one of the contact areas be stronger with respect to single event charge collection. This contact area will then always determine the outcome of a single event in on the connected net e.g. for a p drain it would always end up HIGH at Vdd . When there are four nets that store the state 2 primary nets two redundant nets and we make sure that net connected to the contact areas that is made dominant in the primary circuit part stores the opposite state to the net connected to the contact area that is made dominant in the redundant circuit part then only one of the two redundant circuit parts can be upset by an event that affects both circuit parts. Using this variant the robust cell synthesis methodology would be as follows 

a. Identify which contact areas have opposing circuit effects when they are simultaneously affected by a single event in the primary as well as the redundant part 

b. Place these nodes in the layout next to each other and make one of the nodes dominant with respect to a single event e.g. by making the drain area larger and changing the distance to the well junction and the well ties .

c. Make sure that the net connected to the dominant contact area of the primary circuit part stores the opposite state to the net connected to the dominant contact area in the redundant circuit part.

d. Place the primary and redundant contact areas relative to each other in such a way that a single event the affects both the primary and redundant circuitry also always affects both the dominant and the non dominant nodes in the primary and in the redundant part.

 i In this way either the primary or the redundant part will be in a state where the dominant node will make sure this circuit part cannot be upset i.e. change its state or voltage . Hence in any situation only ONE of the redundant parts can be upset by a single event.

In a basic sequential logic circuit element latch sram type memory cell etc. there are two main nets that maintain the state. These will always have opposite state voltage . illustrates primary opposing nodes in a latch cell. shows the schematics of the fundamental components of a latch circuit implemented in a CMOS technology. In this latch each of the two main net is connected to two contacts areas in the layout the nmos device drain and the pmos drain .

In this configuration the contact areas that will have opposing effects with respect to the state of the latch when affected by the same single event can be identified as step 1 above 

c. A single event that affects both nmos and pmos drain of the same node will have opposing effect on the state of the latch

In the symmetric method we arrange the layout such that drains with opposing effects are placed next to each other in a symmetric arrangement i.e. with respect to symmetric with respect to the surrounding layout and having the same shape . This is step 2 in the methodology number 1 above. illustrates an arrangement of opposing node of a latch circuit. shows such an arrangement where we have utilized the first two of the opposing contact area identifications above. We now have a latch which cannot be upset if the single event has such a directions that is passes the two nets of the circuit.

Step 3 in methodology number 1 as well as method number 2 concerns the case when an additional redundant circuit here a latch is available. In a circuit configuration that uses two latches to maintain the states there will be 4 main nodes n n from the primary latch and n n from the secondary latch. The nodes from one latch will be in opposite states and during correct circuit operation each node in the primary latch will always have the same state as one node in the secondary latch. This situation is shown in TABLE 1 where n and n maintain the same state and n and n maintain the same state.

According to step 3 the nodes of the second latch are now placed with respect to with respect to the first latch such that when an extended event occurs that affects both latches it will be in a direction which affects both opposing nodes in each individual latch or at least in one of them. shows such an arrangement where the method with dominating nodes methodology above has been used and the two latches have been placed in such a way relative to each other that at the most one of the latches can be upset by any single event but not both. is a circuit schematic and layout for duplicated latch cells e.g. for BISER . using placement and sizing to ensure complete hardness against single and multiple node single event effects where for a single event affecting several nodes the primary latch can only be upset when node is HIGH and the redundant latch can only be upset when node is LOW hence any single event that affects both latches can only upset one of the two latches in the BISER configuration and therefore cannot generate an error.

The same situation is the same also for other sequential elements e.g. memory cells and the method applies to these elements as well. The method also applies to elements which uses more than 2 nodes to maintain the state as well as non sequential elements with a primary and secondary redundant net.

To extract the correct signal from the two or more redundant nets a filtering or voting circuit is used. The filtering ensuring that at any time where one of the redundant nets is wrong e.g. for the redundant nets carrying the same voltage state if the voltage states differ the signal is not allowed to pass through the filtering circuit. The Built In Soft Error BISER design Mitra2005 is an example of such a configuration. A voting circuit being used on at least 3 redundant circuit performs a vote between the voltage states of the redundant nets. Triple mode redundancy TMR configurations use this type of redundancy.

One embodiment of this invention also comprises several specific DICE cells created using the layout method. The DICE Dual Interlocked Cell latch Nic2005 the circuit of which is shown in drawing also uses four nets to store the circuit state but as can be seen in drawing they are not connected as two separate latches but in an interlocked way.

The principal arrangement of the 4 storage nets of the DICE cells in one embodiment of this invention is that the contact areas of the nets are placed along one direction e.g. drawing and that they have a certain order than minimizes or removes the effect of the single event and hence reduces or removes the possibility that the storage element can be upset by a single event. The first variant variant is shown in drawing . In this variant the MOSFET pairs have been placed in the same active area with a common MOSFET source contact in between. However they can also be placed in separate active areas using separate sources contacts and they can also be oriented so that the sources are perpendicular to the direction of the drain nodes.

In variants protective nodes have been added. They act to protect certain sensitive node pairs and are not necessarily active during normal circuit operation. However they can also be used as active devices connecting their gates to other storage nodes. For example while variant is much more robust than the normal layout which does not have other nodes in between the sensitive node pairs there are still some single event sensitivity remaining the main being for the node pair p n. By extending variant one as shown in drawings the node pair p n is also protected. This is variant . The most sensitive node pair in variant is the n p node pair this pair is protected with the extension in variant . Finally the latch can be made symmetric by adding additional protective nodes. A fully symmetric arrangement of protective nodes is shown in third variant .

The addition of additional protective MOSFETs has a general application to circuits which uses redundant nets. In the same way as in the case of the DICE circuit they can be used to keep the state of a circuit node which becomes floating not connected to the power i.e. to VSS or VDD during a single event. Floating nets become very sensitive to the single event charge their voltage state can change very easily i.e. even by very weak interaction with the single event . The additional protective devices even if they just turn on partially during the single event will make the nodes that become floating during a single event much more stable.

Another not DICE example of the addition of such protective devices for a c element filtering circuit is shown in which is one example of adding protective MOSFET devices to a c element filter circuit. The ndrain of the output of the c element i.e. a net which becomes floating if the two inputs have different voltage states is connected via the protection MOSFET n either to an n type contact area close to the ndrain of the input net or via a second protective MOSFET n to the ndrain of the input net and where this protection would be adequate when the layout is such that the ndrain of the c element output and the ndrain of the input node are the most sensitive contact area pair i.e. that other mutually sensitive contact areas are further apart and or have other opposing contact areas in between them and as in the case of the DICE circuit more protective MOSFET devices can be added to protect other mutually sensitive contact area pair if required.

In one embodiment the invention also comprises a combinational circuit where all or some of the nets have been duplicated in such a way that there is one primary net that carries the signal and a second redundant net carries the inverse of the signal on the primary net i.e. when the voltage on the primary net is high the voltage on the redundant net is always low and vice versa and where in accordance with the layout method the contact areas of the primary and redundant net are placed in such a way that when a single event affects both nets a voltage pulse can only be generated on one of the nets but not on both. For this type of duplicated combinational circuit a filtering also needs to be applied to the outputs at some point before the signal is latched into a single sequential element which prevents propagation of a signal unless both nets have their correct state i.e. one being the inverse of the other . Alternatively sequential elements can also be duplicated and an error detection and correction added at some point in the circuit an error being identified by comparing the signal on the two redundant nets .

This type of duplicated combinational circuit is shown in which is an example of a duplicated circuit. In a duplicated inverter where the redundant and primary nodes carry opposite states error signals on both primary and redundant nodes can be generated if both ndrain and pdrain are affected if D is high or if both ndrain and pdrain are affected D low . By placing the nodes such that if a particle trace goes through two nodes that can cause an error transient on both primary and redundant output then the trace also passes through the other nodes and the pulse on one of the nets are suppressed. For example consider the trace in the Figure if node is high the charge collected on ndrain will pull node low error transient the charge collected on node pdrain will pull node high however the charge collected on node ndrain will pull node low opposing the effect on pdrain and keeping node low i.e. preventing the transient on node . If node is low the charge collected on node ndrain will pull node low error transient however the charge collected at ndrain will keep node low i.e. preventing a transient on node . If should be pointed out that in the general case there will be some pulses on all nodes but that it will always hold true that a full swing pulse a transient that can propagate only can be generated on one and one only of the duplicated nodes.

In this example the computing device comprises one or more processor circuits or processing units on or more memory circuits and or storage circuit component s and one or more input output I O circuit devices . Additionally the computing device comprises a bus that allows the various circuit components and devices to communicate with one another. The bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The bus may comprise wired and or wireless buses.

The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs applications programs and or module to provide computing and processing operations for the computing device . The processing unit may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wired or wireless communication channels. Although the processing unit of the computing device includes single processor architecture as shown it may be appreciated that the computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a as a general purpose processor. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the processing unit may be coupled to the memory and or storage component s through the bus . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be shown as being separate from the processing unit for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit . In various embodiments the computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk etc. . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The one or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card etc. . The computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the processing unit . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The computing device may comprise a display coupled to the processing unit . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the computing device . For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS Android OS Apple OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

The computer also includes a network interface coupled to the bus . The network interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a local network . For example the network interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL modem satellite dish an integrated services digital network ISDN card or other data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example the communication interface may be a local area network LAN card effecting a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless communication means such as internal or external wireless modems may also be implemented.

In any such implementation the network interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information such as the selection of goods to be purchased the information for payment of the purchase or the address for delivery of the goods. The network interface typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network interface may effect a connection through the local network to an Internet Host Provider ISP or to data equipment operated by an ISP. The ISP in turn provides data communication services through the internet or other packet based wide area network . The local network and the internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network interface which carry the digital data to and from the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

The computer can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s and the network interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through the internet the ISP the local network the network and the network interface . In accordance with the invention one such downloaded application provides for the identification and analysis of a prospect pool and analysis of marketing metrics. The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

Various embodiments may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as software program modules and or engines being executed by a computer. Generally software program modules and or engines include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Software program modules and or engines can include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of the software program modules and or engines components and techniques may be stored on and or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. In this regard computer readable media can be any available medium or media useable to store information and accessible by a computing device. Some embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software program modules and or engines may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising functional components software engines and or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components software engines and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In other embodiments the functional components such as software engines and or modules may be implemented by hardware elements that may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth.

Examples of software engines and or modules may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a computer readable storage medium arranged to store logic instructions and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

The functions of the various functional elements logical blocks modules and circuits elements described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as software control modules logic and or logic modules executed by the processing unit. Generally software control modules logic and or logic modules comprise any software element arranged to perform particular operations. Software control modules logic and or logic modules can comprise routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of the software control modules logic and or logic modules and techniques may be stored on and or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. In this regard computer readable media can be any available medium or media useable to store information and accessible by a computing device. Some embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software control modules logic and or logic modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Additionally it is to be appreciated that the embodiments described herein illustrate example implementations and that the functional elements logical blocks modules and circuits elements may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such functional elements logical blocks modules and circuits elements may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules. As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the present disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several aspects without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the foregoing description discussions using terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Some aspects may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some aspects may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some aspects may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however also may mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one aspect an aspect one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the aspect is included in at least one aspect. Thus appearances of the phrases in one aspect in an aspect in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same aspect. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more aspects.

Although various embodiments have been described herein many modifications variations substitutions changes and equivalents to those embodiments may be implemented and will occur to those skilled in the art. Also where materials are disclosed for certain components other materials may be used. It is therefore to be understood that the foregoing description and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and variations as falling within the scope of the disclosed embodiments. The following claims are intended to cover all such modification and variations.

Some or all of the embodiments described herein may generally comprise technologies for manufacturing semiconductor integrated circuits or otherwise according to technologies described herein. In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link e.g. transmitter receiver transmission logic reception logic etc. etc. .

All of the above mentioned U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in any Application Data Sheet or any other disclosure material are incorporated herein by reference to the extent not inconsistent herewith. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. operations devices objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are contemplated. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar is intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of specific components e.g. operations devices and objects should not be taken limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations are not expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

In some instances one or more components may be referred to herein as configured to configurable to operable operative to adapted adaptable able to conformable conformed to etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that configured to can generally encompass active state components and or inactive state components and or standby state components unless context requires otherwise.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to claims containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations.

In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that typically a disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms unless context dictates otherwise. For example the phrase A or B will be typically understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

With respect to the appended claims those skilled in the art will appreciate that recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

In certain cases use of a system or method may occur in a territory even if components are located outside the territory. For example in a distributed computing context use of a distributed computing system may occur in a territory even though parts of the system may be located outside of the territory e.g. relay server processor signal bearing medium transmitting computer receiving computer etc. located outside the territory .

A sale of a system or method may likewise occur in a territory even if components of the system or method are located and or used outside the territory. Further implementation of at least part of a system for performing a method in one territory does not preclude use of the system in another territory.

Although various embodiments have been described herein many modifications variations substitutions changes and equivalents to those embodiments may be implemented and will occur to those skilled in the art. Also where materials are disclosed for certain components other materials may be used. It is therefore to be understood that the foregoing description and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and variations as falling within the scope of the disclosed embodiments. The following claims are intended to cover all such modification and variations.

In summary numerous benefits have been described which result from employing the concepts described herein. The foregoing description of the one or more embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting to the precise form disclosed. Modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The one or more embodiments were chosen and described in order to illustrate principles and practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the claims submitted herewith define the overall scope.

