---

title: Detection of rocket body through an active firing plume
abstract: Apparatus and a method for intercepting a rocket body during boost phase. A sensor is arranged to detect thermal emission in a range that is characteristic of a firing rocket body. The image detected by the sensor is applied to an analog-to-digital converter for digitization and application to a computer that includes a routine for separating the modulated photon energy of the detected image from the substantially unmodulated photon energy that characterizes rocket body emissions. The unmodulated photon energy, signature of the rocket body, may be utilized by a fire control system for tracking, targeting and aiming munitions at the firing rocket body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08927915&OS=08927915&RS=08927915
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08927915
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120622
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The present invention relates to the interception of a rocket body during boost phase. More particularly this invention pertains to a method and apparatus for boost phase intercept despite the presence of a much brighter active firing plume.

Missile intercept during boost phase is highly advantageous. Should a missile be destroyed early enough in the boost phase the payload may fall back into the territory of the launching entity or otherwise fall short of its intended target. Further present day missiles are not capable of releasing decoys or multiple warheads MIRV whose presence can greatly complicate tracking and analysis until completion of the boost phase. Accordingly boost phase intercept is highly desirable.

Unfortunately during boost phase the rocket engine is firing and producing a plume whose thermal emission is as much as two orders of magnitude greater than the thermal emission signature produced by the rocket body. As a result details of the rocket body are effectively obscured during the boost phase.

The analysis of an image detected by a passive sensor in the presence of environmental clutter to ascertain whether or not it represents the plume characteristic of a firing rocket body in boost phase is discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 677 571 of Clark et al. covering Rocket Launch Detection Process . While it is essential to characterize an image as a firing rocket plume or otherwise significantly more detailed information is required for targeting and interception of the associated rocket body.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for detecting and targeting a rocket body for intercept during boost phase.

It is another object of the invention to accomplish the foregoing object by means of a method that requires only existing sensors functioning within presently implemented frame rates.

The present invention addresses shortcomings of the prior art by providing in a first aspect a method for defining the image of a firing rocket body during boost phase. The method is begun by selecting a detection wavelength in accordance with a boost phase temperature of the rocket body. A preselected region is then scanned at the detection wavelength to receive a detected image characteristic of the rocket body during boost phase. A component of the detected image corresponding to a plume of the firing rocket body during boost phase is then removed whereby substantially only the image of the rocket body remains.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for intercepting a firing rocket body during boost phase. The method is begun by selecting a detection wavelength in accordance with a boost phase temperature of the rocket body. A preselected region is scanned at the detection wavelength at a predetermined rate to receive a detected image. A component of the detected image corresponding to a plume of the firing rocket body is analytically removed during boost phase whereby substantially only data representing the image of the rocket body remains. The data is then encoded to generate a signal for real time tracking of the rocket body by a fire control system. Such signal is then applied to the fire control system to enable interception of the rocket body.

In a third aspect the invention provides apparatus for intercepting a firing rocket body during boost phase. Such apparatus includes a sensor for detecting radiation of predetermined wavelength. An analog to digital converter transforms a detected image to a digital data representation. A computer is programmed to remove data describing the detected image that corresponds to modulated photon content from data that corresponds to substantially unmodulated photon content over a predetermined frequency range that includes the predetermined wavelength.

A signal conditioner is provided for receiving the data corresponding to substantially unmodulated photon content and for providing a tracking signal in response. A fire control system receives the signal and engages the rocket body in response.

The preceding and other features of the invention are described in the written description that follows. Such description is accompanied by a set of drawing figures. Numerals of the drawing figures corresponding to those of the written description point to the features of the invention. Like numerals refer to like features throughout both the written description and the drawings.

Turning now to the drawings illustrates the signature of a rocket body during boost phase as detected by a thermal energy sensor. Such phase is critical to successful intercept as it currently occurs prior to the launch of multiple warheads and decoys that could significantly complicate tracking and interception.

The targeting and aiming for interception of the firing rocket body is complicated by the existence of an associated plume during boost phase detection by a thermal sensor. Such plume which may partially or completely envelope the rocket body results from the interaction of the heated rocket engine exhaust with the turbulence created by the supersonic speed of the plume itself as it travels through the atmosphere. As can be seen the rocket body and exhaust are illustrated by broken lines whereas the outline of the plume is a solid line. This represents the fact that the thermal image of a rocket body is much fainter than and effectively obscured by that of the associated plume as detected by a thermal energy sensor. The rocket body is relatively cool about 300 K compared to the engine exhaust generated plume about 2000 K . The outline of the hot exhaust emitted by the firing rocket body is illustrated by broken lines as its more intense signature a useful targeting point is obscured by the surrounding plume it generates. A plume is virtually always significantly larger as well as brighter than a rocket body. At typical intercept altitudes the much brighter plume becomes truly huge and engulfs the entire rocket body. As an interceptor routinely incorporates a thermal infrared detector as an element of a fire control system as this is the only way to detect a rocket body the brightness and size of the plume at detection wavelengths significantly degrades the possibility of successful boost phase intercept. An additional complication presented by the interaction of heated exhaust gases with air turbulence is the phenomenon known as self blinding whereby the quality and usefulness of the image of the rocket body detected by the infrared sensor of the interceptor is subject to significant obscuration by a plume generated by the traveling interceptor vehicle itself. Both of such blinding pheonmena will be seen to be addressed by the operation of the method and apparatus of the invention discussed below.

Comparing the two graphs it is seen that the two spectra differ significantly in character. That is while the detected thermal emission from the rocket body is nearly all at 0 Hz in the region of the detection wavelength that reflecting the significantly more intense energy detected from the plume generated by the firing rocket body measured during static testing displays a continuum that decreases as frequency increases roughly 1 f where f is frequency . This characteristic of the continuum of the energy of a plume in PSD space is disclosed in the Clark et al. patent infra. The large modulated fraction of emissive photons reflected in the frequency dependence of detected plume emission reflects the variation of plume intensity due to the presence of turbulence. In contrast the relatively stable graph of reflects the fact that the rocket body emits primarily unmodulated mostly zero frequency thermal photons.

The invention relies upon the differing characters of the radiometric emissions of a rocket body and its associated plume during the critical boost phase to effectively remove the plume and reveal the underlying rocket body to the interception mechanisms of a fire control system airborne or otherwise. A number of recognized mathematical routines are currently available and well known to those skilled in the art for removing or filtering out turbulence modulated photons thus removing the plume from a detected image that is a combination of rocket body and plume emissions. Such methods or routines include but are not limited to Fourier analysis differencing and principal component analysis. Each such routine is capable of separating out those detected photons in accordance with their method of modulation. An ensemble average is measured with those photons associated with modulation by plume turbulence being removed by the selected routine.

As mentioned earlier the image detected by the sensor is not sufficiently specific with respect to the information required for tracking and targeting a firing rocket body due to the dominating and obscuring presence of a relatively intense image of an associated plume .

The image detected by the sensor is applied to an analog to digital converter where it is digitized prior to being input to a computer that is programmed to include a routine for mathematically removing the modulated photons from the image detected by the sensor . Appropriate routines for mathematically removing the modulated photons include as mentioned above Fourier analysis differencing and principal component analysis. In effect the substantially unmodulated d.c. photons are mathematically extracted from the digitized image that is input to the computer leaving data describing the shape and position of the rocket body itself absent the shrouding effect of the more intense detected image of the associated plume.

Blackbody estimates suggest that the underlying rocket body will be about eight 8 percent as bright as the plume at thermal wavelengths in the neighborhood of 10 m while the plume fractional modulation is on the order of a few percent. Therefore removal of the modulated fraction of plume emission easily reveals the underlying rocket body at wavelengths sensitive to the rocket body emission typically 5 to 12 m .

The data describing the shape and position of the rocket body are applied to a signal conditioner that converts such data into an appropriately formatted signal for use by an interceptor fire control system . Such a system may employ this information for aim point analysis to drive the divert and attitude control system DAC of an interceptor. As an alternative such information may be employed to determine the aim point for shipboard ground based or other fire control e.g. for a kinetic weapon laser or other light speed interdiction system .

Static testing of the concepts disclosed herein has shown that the plume associated with a firing rocket body may be removed through removal of the modulated photons. Such testing with radiation detection performed by a sensor operating in the infrared at 8 to 9.5 m was performed at a modest frame rate of 57 Hz per second or about double that for standard video. Upon application of a Fourier transform to the detected image the underlying thermal emission from the missile engine itself as well as the warm nozzle and surrounding vanes a complete rocket body was not employed for the static test only an engine were clearly revealed.

Thus it is seen that the present invention provides a method and apparatus for passive detection of an underlying rocket body in the presence of a much brighter detected plume. By employing the teachings of the invention one may reduce the effects of plume emission by several orders of magnitude rendering possible imaging of the underlying rocket body for targeting purposes. The invention operates passively and does not require excessive frame rates so that with appropriate processing plumes appear distinctly different from the thermal emissions of rocket bodies.

While this invention has been described with reference to its presently preferred embodiment it is not limited thereto. Rather the invention is limited only insofar as it is defined by the following set of patent claims and includes within its scope all equivalents thereof.

