---

title: Determining relevant information for domains of interest
abstract: Techniques are described for determining and using relevant information related to domains of interest. In at least some situations, the techniques include automatically analyzing documents, terms and other information related to a domain of interest in order to automatically determine information about relevant themes within the domain and/or about which documents have contents that are relevant to such themes. Such automatically determined information related to a domain may then be used in various ways, including to assist users in specifying themes of interest and/or in obtaining documents and/or document fragments with contents that are relevant to specified themes. In addition, information about how the automatically determined information is used by users may be tracked and used as feedback for learning improved determinations of relevant themes and relevant documents within the domain, such as by using automated machine learning techniques.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706664&OS=08706664&RS=08706664
owner: Atigeo LLC
number: 08706664
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 392 933 filed Feb. 25 2009 and entitled Determining Relevant Information For Domains Of Interest which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 392 933 claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 122 282 filed Dec. 12 2008 and entitled Determining Relevant Information For Domains Of Interest and of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 067 162 filed Feb. 25 2008 and entitled Platforms Systems and Methods for Data Handling each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The following disclosure relates generally to determining relevant information related to domains of interest such as information about relevant themes within a domain and or about documents whose contents are relevant to such themes.

An abundance of information is available to users on a wide variety of topics from a variety of sources. For example portions of the World Wide Web the Web are akin to an electronic library of documents and other data resources distributed over the Internet with billions of documents available. In addition various other information is available via other communication mediums.

With the abundance of available information locating documents and other information that match particular interests of a user can be difficult. One option for attempting to locate documents involves performing searches using various Web based search engines. A typical Web search involves a user providing a search query that includes one or more search terms to a search engine with the search query in some situations also including one or more logical search operators e.g. AND OR NOT an indication that a particular search term is required etc. that are each related to one or more of the search terms. After receiving such a search query the search engine typically identifies at least some available documents whose contents match the search query e.g. the contents include each of the required search terms generates one or more Web pages that include links to one or more of the identified documents and provides one or more of the generated Web pages to the user as search results for the search query. In addition different users entering the same search string typically receive the same search results.

Various techniques are used by search engines to identify documents whose contents match particular search terms. For example some search engines do automated pre processing prior to receiving search requests in order to create an index that maps terms to Web pages whose contents include those terms. Such pre processing typically uses an automated program called a Web spider that crawls the Web to identify documents to index such as by traversing links from known Web pages to new Web pages. In addition some search engines use manual categorization of documents to track which Web pages are related to specified categories and or terms such as via a hierarchical directory of categories and sub categories. Thus search results from a search engine may be based in some cases on information from an automatically pre generated index and or from a manually pre generated category directory.

However existing search engines and other techniques for identifying information of interest suffer from various problems.

Techniques are described for determining and using relevant information related to topics and subject areas of interest also referred to as domains of interest herein. In at least some embodiments the techniques include automatically analyzing documents and other content items related to one or more related domains of interest in order to automatically determine information about relevant themes within the domain and or about which content items have contents that are relevant to such themes. Such automatically determined relevance information for the domain s may then be used in various ways including to assist users in specifying themes of interest and or in obtaining content items with contents that are relevant to specified themes. In addition in at least some embodiments information about how information is used by users and other entities may be tracked and used as feedback for learning improved determinations of relevant themes and or relevant content items within the domain s such as by using automated machine learning techniques. Furthermore in at least some situations the techniques may be used in conjunction with an embodiment of a computer implemented Domain Specific Relevance Determination DSRD service that automatically determines relevance information related to domains of interest and provides such information for use by others as described in greater detail below.

As previously noted in at least some embodiments the described techniques include automatically analyzing documents and other content items related to a domain of interest in order to automatically determine information about relevant themes within the domain and or about which content items have contents that are relevant to such themes such as by generating an index that relates particular content items to particular terms and or themes. While various of the following discussion refers to content items as being documents it will be appreciated that the described techniques may be used with a wide variety of types of content items including for example textual documents e.g. Web pages word processing documents slide shows and other presentations emails and other electronic messages etc. images video files audio files software code firmware and other logic genetic codes that each accompany one or more sequences of genetic information other biological data etc. Furthermore the content items may be of one or more file types or other data structures e.g. streaming data including document fragments or other pieces or portions of a larger document or other content item and the contents of such content items may include text and or a variety of other types of data e.g. binary encodings of audio information binary encodings of video information binary encodings of image information mathematical equations and mathematical data structures other types of alphanumeric data structures and or symbolic data structures encrypted data etc. . In at least some embodiments a group of multiple documents that are specific to a domain are selected and automatically analyzed by an embodiment of the DSRD service. The group of documents may be for example a corpus that includes all available documents for a particular domain or that includes sufficient documents to be representative of the domain. In addition the documents to be analyzed may be obtained from one or more sources such as from a Web site that includes comprehensive information specific to one or more domains e.g. a hypothetical all baseball now.com Web site that includes comprehensive information about baseball the espn.com Web site that includes varied information about a variety of sports the Wikipedia encyclopedia Web site at wikipedia.org and Wikipedia Commons media collection Web site at commons.wikipedia.org and Wikinews news source Web site at wikinews.org that include varied information about a large number of domains etc. . In some embodiments each of the documents has contents that are at least partially textual information that are analyzed while in other embodiments at least some documents or other content items may include other types of content e.g. images video information audio information etc. .

The automated analysis of documents for a domain may in at least some embodiments include analyzing the contents of the documents in order to determine themes that are relevant to the domain such as by using data mining techniques or other techniques. For example if the documents being analyzed are related to the baseball domain the themes that may be determined include themes specific to particular players to particular teams to particular leagues e.g. Major League Baseball Division I college baseball etc. to particular events e.g. a particular year s All Star game or World Series the steroid use controversy etc. to particular seasons to particular records e.g. the cumulative home run record etc. In at least some embodiments the automated analysis includes indexing the documents to determine what terms are present in each of the documents and then analyzing the importance of some or all such terms to the documents. For example in at least some embodiments an initial determination of a degree of relevance of each term in a document to the document is made based on the distinctiveness of the term to the contents of the document such as by using a term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF analysis. In addition combinations of one or more related terms used throughout the group of documents may be selected to represent themes of the domain such as for the most relevant terms and the determined degree of relevance of the one or more related terms for a theme to one or more documents may be used to determine a degree of relevance of the one or more documents to the theme as discussed in greater detail below. Furthermore as discussed in greater detail elsewhere the terms or other information that are associated with a document or other content item and that are analyzed to determine relevant themes may in some embodiments include other types of information including information that is not included in the contents of the content item such as metadata associated with the content item and or information associated with one or more users to whom the content item corresponds.

As noted above the generation of document term analysis information may be performed in various manners in various embodiments and in some embodiments uses a TF IDF analysis. Such a TF IDF analysis uses a vector space representation of the documents to be analyzed in which each document is treated as being similar to a bag of words without considering the role of the terms in the document e.g. without considering grammar sentence structure paragraph structure punctuation etc. . In such situations the document representation may largely or solely reflect the Term Frequency TF of the terms in the documents which enables an efficient mapping of documents into a mathematically straightforward high dimensional vector space. In addition the distinctiveness of a particular term relative to the various documents for a domain may be considered and used when determining the relevance of terms to documents such as by considering how ubiquitous a particular term is in the documents of a corpus or other group of documents. In particular the Term Frequency of a term i in a document d and the Inverse Document Frequency IDF of the term i across the documents of a domain may be expressed as follows in at least some embodiments 

The automated analysis of the documents for a domain may in at least some embodiments also include analyzing the contents of the documents in order to determine which documents have contents that are relevant to determined themes for the domain. For example in at least some embodiments an initial determination of the relevance of the documents may be performed so as to determine a degree of relevance of each document to each of some or all themes such as based on the relevance of particular terms within a theme to the content of a particular document as discussed in greater detail below. In addition in some embodiments the documents that are analyzed as part of the document relevance determination are the same documents that are analyzed to determine relevant themes while in other embodiments some or all of the document relevance determination documents are distinct from the theme relevance determination documents e.g. if the document relevance determination documents include new documents that were not available during a prior theme relevance determination if the theme relevance determination documents are a specialized subset of documents that are selected for training purposes such as due to being representative of a domain etc. . Furthermore in at least some embodiments and situations groups of multiple related documents may be analyzed together with respect to some or all themes such as by treating the multiple related documents as a single document for the purpose of the analysis while in other situations a particular document may be divided into multiple parts that are each treated as a distinct document with respect to some or all themes for the purpose of the analysis. Additional details are included below related to analyzing documents of a domain in order to determine documents that are relevant to determined themes.

After relevance information is automatically determined by the DSRD service regarding relevant themes within or across one or more domains and or about particular documents that have contents that are relevant to such themes such automatically determined relevance information may then be used in various ways in various embodiments including to assist human users and other entities in specifying themes of interest and or in obtaining documents with contents that are relevant to specified themes. For example as described in greater detail below automatically determined relevance information regarding relevant themes within or across one or more domains may be used by the DSRD service or other affiliated service to assist a human user or other entity e.g. an automated program external to the DSRD service in specifying one or more themes of interest such as for use as part of a search query to identify preferences of the user etc. The automatically determined theme information may be used in various manners in various embodiments such as receiving one or more terms from a user and presenting related information to the user e.g. themes that include the received terms other terms that are related to the received terms etc. presenting a list of automatically determined themes to a user for browsing or selection etc. Similarly as described in greater detail below automatically determined relevance information regarding relevant documents within a domain may be used by the DSRD service or other affiliated service to assist a human user or other entity e.g. an automated program external to the DSRD service in obtaining content related to one or more themes of interest such as in response to a search query to push or otherwise provide relevant information to a user that is not explicitly requested e.g. based on previously specified theme preferences etc. Furthermore information about the inter relatedness of various terms and or themes may be displayed to users in various manners in various embodiments. Additional details related to examples of possible use of determined relevant information related to domains of interest are available in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 334 389 filed Dec. 12 2008 and entitled Electronic Profile Development Storage Use and Systems Therefor and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 334 416 filed Dec. 12 2008 and entitled Advertising Selection and Display Based on Electronic Profile Information each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In addition in at least some embodiments information about how automatically determined theme and or document relevance information is used by users or other entities is tracked and used in various ways. For example in at least some embodiments the information about the use of the automatically determined theme and or document information may be used by the DSRD service as feedback related to the automatically determined theme and or document relevance information. Such feedback may be used for example to revise the initial determination of the relevance of particular terms and term combinations that may be used as determined themes and or to revise the initial determination of the relevance of particular documents to the determined themes and this revised determined relevance information may then be used by the DSRD service or other affiliated service in a manner similar to that as the initially determined relevance information. In this manner a continuous or other repeated feedback loop may be used to repeatedly improve the automatic relevance determinations performed by the DSRD service. As described in greater detail below in some embodiments the feedback is used to learn or revise automatically determined theme and or document information such as by use of a configured neural network or other adaptive model or system. Furthermore in at least some embodiments and situations the configured neural network or other adaptive system may be automatically extended in various ways to use information about new documents that become available and or new themes that are determined.

For illustrative purposes some examples and embodiments are described below in which specific types of information are analyzed in specific manners and in which determined information related to a particular domain is used in specific manners. These examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are simplified for the sake of brevity and it will be appreciated that the inventive techniques may be used in a wide variety of other situations some of which are described in greater detail below. For example while the analysis of particular textual documents is described below information in other forms may be similarly analyzed and used. In addition while particular algorithms and technologies are illustrated as being used to determine relevant themes within or across one or more domains to determine particular documents that are relevant to a theme and to learning improved relevance of themes and or documents based on use and other feedback other algorithms and technologies may be used in other manners.

In addition in this example the DSRD service includes several modules that each provides some of the functionality of the DSRD service including a Domain Analysis Manager module a Relevant Document Determination Manager module and a Relevant Theme Determination Manager module . In particular the Domain Analysis Manager module performs various actions to obtain and automatically analyze the contents of the domain related documents such as to make such analyzed information available for use by the modules and . The Relevant Document Determination Manager module uses the analyzed document information to determine documents that are relevant to particular terms or other themes such as to generate the domain document relevance information of not shown in but which may be stored on one or more storage devices also not shown in . Similarly the Relevant Theme Determination Manager module uses the analyzed document information to determine themes that are relevant to the domain such as to generate the domain theme relevance information of not shown in but which may be stored on one or more storage devices also not shown in . In this illustrated embodiment the modules and or may then provide the generated domain specific relevance information to the users or optional other services such as via provided GUIs graphical user interfaces that users may interactively use and or via provided APIs application programming interfaces via which software programs may programmatically interact. In other embodiments one or more other modules not shown of the DSRD service may instead interact with the users and or optional other services via one or more GUIs and or one or more APIs that are provided by the DSRD service .

While not illustrated in the DSRD service may be implemented in various manners including with one or more software modules executing on one or more computing systems not shown and may store various information on one or more local or remote storage devices not shown . Similarly the users other services and domain documents may use computing devices or systems not shown to perform the various described interactions and or to store the various described information. In addition while the DSRD service and other services may be provided by unaffiliated entities in some embodiments in other embodiments the DSRD service and one or more of the other services may instead be provided by a single operator e.g. in conjunction with each other . Furthermore the network illustrated in may have various forms such as for example a publicly accessible network of linked networks e.g. the Internet possibly operated by various distinct parties. In other embodiments the network may be a private network such as for example a corporate or university network that is wholly or partially inaccessible to non privileged users. In still other embodiments the network may include one or more private networks with access to and or from the Internet and some or all of the network may further include broadband or broadcast wired or wireless links e.g. a cellular telephone connection a wireless computer connection that uses Wi Fi Wi MAX Bluetooth broadcast analog or digital television EVDO satellite or other wireless networking or communication protocol etc. in at least some embodiments.

In addition the various users and other entities may interact with the DSRD service in various manners to make requests and to specify various information. For example users may register or subscribe with the DSRD service and or an optional other service such as to supply various preferences and other information that may be used in later requests. In such embodiments after a user interacts with the DSRD service to register the user may be issued one or more identifiers e.g. keys tokens user names etc. that are associated with the user and later used when other requests are made such as requests for search results for specified queries. In addition in some embodiments an optional other service may register or otherwise interact with the DSRD service to establish an affiliated relationship such as to allow the other service to obtain access to at least some domain specific relevance information generated by the DSRD service . Furthermore various fees may be associated with the use of a DSRD service such that the DSRD service may respond to at least some requests in exchange for fees paid by the requester such as to provide domain specific relevance information to an optional other service in exchange for fees from the other service or to provide domain specific relevance information to a user in exchange for fees from the user. In other embodiments the DSRD service may obtain fees in other manners such as from the providers of domain specific documents and other content to perform a relevance determination related to that content from other third parties such as advertisers and retailers e.g. for providing advertisements or other indicated content to at least some users etc.

For example illustrate examples of summary information about several documents that are part of a particular example domain of interest along with example term analysis information that may be generated by an embodiment of the DSRD service for the documents related to the domain. In particular as indicated with respect to example summary information the example domain of interest relates to baseball and the corpus of domain specific documents that are available in this example for the domain includes 1000 documents e.g. news articles player biographies team summaries etc. .

The information in this example includes a summary of a few example terms that are present in the corpus along with IDF information for those terms. In particular several terms are shown with each having a unique term ID an indication of a number of documents in the corpus that include that term and a corresponding IDF value for the term and the corpus documents. Various other summary information may also be generated and stored but is not shown in this example. In addition each row in the example table reflects a distinct term such as for row that corresponds to the common term the which is present in every one of the 1000 documents in the corpus and thus has an IDF value of zero. In this example the rows are sorted based on IDF value such that subsequent terms have increasing IDF values reflecting their presence in less of the documents of the corpus than preceding terms and thus being more distinctive with respect to those documents in which they are present. Additional details regarding calculating IDF values are included elsewhere. In addition in some embodiments some common terms or other indicated terms e.g. the term the may be removed as part of the document term analysis and thus may not be shown in such summary information or used in the later determination of relevance related information. Furthermore some of the terms in this example are phrases that include multiple related words such as home run and Hank Aaron while other terms that may be used together at times e.g. Barry Bonds and Bobby Bonds are shown as separate terms. It will be appreciated that such multi words terms may be determined in various manners such as automatically based on their repeated use together and lack of use separately automatically based on the inclusion of such terms in a dictionary of common terms for the domain or other similar information at least partially in a manual manner based on input from an operator of the DSRD service etc. In other embodiments each word may be treated as a separate term at least initially and may optionally be later grouped together as part of a common theme based on a learned relevance of the inter relatedness of those terms from the terms being repeatedly used together by users as discussed in greater detail elsewhere.

The other example tables and that are illustrated in each reflect an example document in the corpus and include various information about example terms in those documents and corresponding term relevance information for those terms and those documents. In particular information corresponds to an example document 1 which in this example is a news article related to Barry Bonds setting the career home run HR record in 2007 while playing for the San Francisco Giants surpassing the previous record held by Hank Aaron. While Bonds was pursuing the home run record there was also significant ongoing news coverage related to a steroid controversy among players in Major League Baseball and Bonds was later indicted on charges related to alleged use of steroids.

The various entries in the table each correspond to an example subset of terms that are present in the 1500 word document 1 such as the term Bonds in entry the term Hank Aaron in entry etc. The number of occurrences of each term in document 1 is also illustrated and a corresponding term frequency value is shown. IDF values are also replicated here for the terms and correspond to the same values in information . Furthermore each entry includes a TF IDF value based on the term frequency value and IDF value . For example the term Bonds in entry is indicated to occur 35 times in document 1 which results in a 2.33 frequency among the 1500 words of the document. The IDF value for the term Bonds is 1.10 as corresponds to information of entry of information and the TF IDF value for Bonds in entry in this example is 2.559. The entries are illustrated in this example in order of decreasing value of TF IDF values indicating that the term Bonds is the most descriptive term for this document that is illustrated while other terms such as the and indictment in entries and respectively are not descriptive of this document e.g. due to the term the being present in all the documents of the corpus and thus having a zero IDF value and due to the term indictment not occurring in this example document and thus having a zero term frequency value . Additional details regarding calculating TF and TF IDF values are included elsewhere.

Tables and include similar information for example documents 2 3 4 and 5 respectively. In particular example document 2 is an overview biography of Barry Bonds focusing on Bonds various accomplishments and including corresponding terms as shown in various entries . Example document 3 is a news article corresponding to Bonds indictment on possible steroid related abuses and includes corresponding terms as shown in various entries . The example document 4 corresponds to an event that occurred prior to Bonds indictment and initiated some of the steroids related controversy in Major League Baseball and in particular corresponds to former Major League Baseball player Jose Canseco testifying before Congress related to alleged steroid use in Major League Baseball with corresponding terms shown in various entries . Example document 5 is a news article from the middle of the 2008 Major League Baseball season and focuses on the current status of the San Francisco Giants team for which Bonds stopped playing after the 2007 season with corresponding terms shown in various entries . As discussed in greater detail with respect to the example term information for these example documents will be used to illustrate some of the described techniques in terms of determining relevant themes and relevant documents for particular themes for this example baseball related domain.

In this example example document 3 has the highest generated document relevance value for the query terms as the contents of document 3 related to Bonds steroid related indictment are highly relevant to both query terms . Example documents 1 and 4 are each moderately relevant to the combination of query terms based on each of those example documents being highly relevant to one of the query terms and only slightly relevant to the other query term i.e. with example document 1 being highly relevant to the Bonds term and only slightly relevant to the steroids term and with example document 4 being highly relevant to the steroids term and only slightly relevant to the Bonds term as shown in column for document 1 and column for document 4 in entries and of information . The other example documents 2 and 5 are less relevant to the query terms than the other three example documents.

As previously noted the determination of the relevance of a particular document to one or more specified terms e.g. terms that are part of a search query such as multiple related terms that are part of a theme may be performed in various manners in various embodiments. As one specific example the TF IDF scores for each of the specified terms and document may be combined in various manners such as to generate an average or sum. In particular in at least some embodiments an average of the TF IDF scores for the various specified terms is generated and may further be normalized e.g. to represent a relevance percentage or other number between 0 and 1 so as to produce a normalized document relevance DR score for the specified terms that facilitates comparison between documents and that facilitates human understanding of the DR scores. The DR score for a document d relative to a group g of one or more specified terms i may be determined as follows in at least some embodiments 

In particular in this example the information includes a visual indication of the specified query terms and a list of corresponding search results are shown in order of generated document relevance. Furthermore in this example each of the entries in the list includes an indication not only of the corresponding relevant document e.g. a name or other identifier of the document such as may be displayed as a user selectable link that may be selected by the user to access the document but also an indication of the corresponding generated normalized document relevance number for the document such as to provide information to the user in assessing whether to obtain further information about a particular document or otherwise select the document as being relevant to the query terms . The indicated normalized document relevance numbers in this example each also include a textual assessment of the degree of relevance of the normalized document relevance number although in other embodiments only one or neither of the normalized document relevance numbers and associated textual assessments may be shown. In addition the selection and display of particular search results may be performed in various manners in various embodiments including to show a specified quantity of query results to show some or all query results that are above a specified minimum document relevance value etc.

In addition in this example additional information and user selectable controls are provided for possible selection by the user although in other embodiments such additional information may not be shown. In this example the additional information asks the user if he she would like to expand the previously specified search query to further describe a relevant theme for the domain such as to improve the accuracy of the search results by specifying a more specific or otherwise different theme that better represents the user s interests than the query terms . As one possible example as previously discussed with respect to example documents 1 and 4 that are each highly relevant to one of the specified query terms but only mildly relevant to the other specified query term the user may be able to improve the accuracy of the search results by clarifying whether the user is primarily interested in the steroids related controversy in Major League Baseball e.g. as it pertains to not only Bonds but also to other players or instead is primarily interested in information related to Bonds that is only tangentially related to Bonds alleged use of steroids e.g. the career home run record set by Bonds . More generally by identifying additional terms that are particularly relevant to the user s one or more themes of current interest the resulting expanded query terms may better disambiguate the various possible themes that may be associated with the terms in the initial query.

The selection of the user selectable Yes control in information of may prompt various additional actions by the DSRD service with one such example described in greater detail with respect to . In particular illustrates information about other terms that may be related to the specified query terms Bonds and steroids with indications of the assessed degrees of relevance of the other terms to the specified query terms that are determined. In other embodiments the use of the theme related term relevance information may be prompted in other manners such as if it is performed automatically for some or all users in some or all situations e.g. so as to display additional information with information of regarding the possible relevance of one or more other terms whether instead of or in addition to the information .

The various information in may be used in various ways such as part of further defining a particular theme for use in a refined search query that is based in part on the initially specified query terms . For example in some embodiments some or all of such information may be illustrated to the user that specified the query terms although in the illustrated embodiment the information is not displayed to the user. In this example the information includes a number of term entries that each correspond to a candidate additional term for possible combination with the query terms and document columns indicate an assessed degree of relevance of those terms to example documents 1 4. Column indicates an aggregate term relevance score for the candidate term in each entry with respect to the query terms such as to reflect an assessed degree of relevance of the candidate term to the possible theme represented by the query terms . The various example documents and candidate additional terms may be selected in various manners in various embodiments. For example the candidate additional terms may be selected by first selecting a subset of the documents of the corpus that are determined to be most relevant to the query terms such as based on the normalized document relevance numbers illustrated in . The most relevant documents may be selected in various manners such as to select a specified quantity of the documents with the highest document relevance numbers to select a specified percentage of the documents with the highest document relevance numbers to select some or all of the documents whose document relevance numbers are above a specified threshold e.g. a predefined threshold such as a minimum document relevance number threshold or a dynamically determined threshold such as if grouping documents with similar document relevance number values provides a naturally occurring threshold point between a group of the most relevant documents and other documents etc. In this example of example document 5 has not been selected as a most relevant document for further use in this example based on its low document relevance number of 2 as indicated in column for entry in but the other example documents 1 4 have been selected for use as relevant documents.

In this example once the most relevant documents are selected for the query terms candidate additional terms are selected for the query terms based at least in part on those selected documents. For example the candidate additional terms may be selected based on terms in the selected documents other than the query terms that are most relevant for those selected documents such as based on TF IDF values of those other terms for the selected documents and or based on term frequency values for those other terms for the selected documents. In this example the numbers illustrated in the information for each term entry and example document reflects the TF IDF value for that term and document. For example with respect to entry corresponding to term home run the term relevance value of that term for example document 1 is indicated to be the TF IDF value 1.333 as previously indicated in entry and column of information of and the term relevance value for term home run in entry for example document 2 is indicated to be the TF IDF value of 1.125 as previously indicated in row and column of information of .

Furthermore in this example the term relevance values for each of the terms is then aggregated across the selected documents such as by averaging those individual TF IDF document specific values with the resulting determined aggregate term relevance score or number for each candidate additional term being reflected in column . In this example the candidate terms are shown in decreasing order of their determined aggregate relevance values for the query terms such that the candidate term home run in entry is determined to be the most relevant candidate additional term for the specified query terms and such that the candidate additional term Canseco in entry is determined to be the least relevant candidate additional term for the specified query terms that are shown. The particular candidate additional terms that are selected for consideration based on the group of selected documents may be identified in various ways such as by using a specified quantity of other terms from each document or from all documents that are determined to be most potentially relevant e.g. by using TF IDF values term frequency values or other individual document term relevance values by using a specified percentage of the most potentially relevant other terms from each document or from all documents by using some or all of the other terms whose TF IDF values or other individual document term relevance values are above a specified threshold for at least one of the selected documents or for all of the selected documents or for some specified minimum subset of the most relevant documents e.g. a predefined threshold such as a minimum term relevance number threshold or a dynamically determined threshold such as if grouping terms with similar term relevance number values provides a naturally occurring threshold between a group of the most relevant terms and other terms etc. In other embodiments the candidate additional terms and or relevant documents may be selected in other manners and the individual term relevance values and or aggregate term relevance values may be determined in other manners. Additional details related to the generation of example term relevance scores or other values are included elsewhere.

The information screen in this example includes a list of possible other related terms for the specified query terms such as is generated in this example based on at least some of the candidate additional terms of . In particular the example related other terms include several entries and are shown in order of decreasing determined term relevance based on the aggregate relevance scores of . In addition in this example an indication of the term relevance of each of the included possible other terms is shown although in other embodiments such term relevance information may not be included or may be shown in other manners in this example the determined term relevance scores from column of have been translated into a scale from 0 to 10 with possible other terms that are determined to be most relevant having a possible value of 10 and with the possible other terms that are determined to be less relevant having lower values. While not illustrated here each of the possible other terms may be a user selectable link or otherwise have one or more associated user selectable controls to allow the user to select or otherwise specify that term as being of interest such as to specify to include that selected term as part of a revised query. In other embodiments the term relevance information may be displayed in other manners such as to indicate the actual determined term relevance scores from to display a normalized version of such term relevance scores in a manner similar to that previously described with respect to for document relevance scores etc. In addition while textual descriptions of the term relevance values are not shown in in a manner similar to those of in other embodiments such term relevance values may be shown.

In this example information includes additional entries and relative to the information of which have been added to correspond to the two additional query terms. Accordingly the resulting aggregate normalized document relevance numbers in entry have been updated with respect to the previous document relevance numbers of entry of to reflect the addition of the two additional terms. In this example the aggregate normalized document relevance information in entry continues to be based on an average of the individual term relevance numbers for each of the four expanded query terms although in other embodiments the aggregate normalized document relevance scores may be calculated in other manners e.g. using a weighted average . In this example the addition of the two additional search terms has reduced the determined relevance for example document 3 which was previously determined to be the most relevant document in for the initial query terms . In particular as shown in column and entry of information the revised document relevance score for document 3 has been reduced from the previous value of 84 to the current value of 47 . In addition the relative relevance of example documents 1 and 2 has increased relative to the information in as shown in columns and of information such that document 1 is determined to be the most relevant document for the expanded query terms and document 2 is determined to be the second most relevant document for the expanded query terms

In this example the changes in the document relevance numbers can be understood intuitively based on the general topics of the example documents and the theme specified using the expanded query terms . In particular relative to the two initial query terms of the expanded query terms of appear to be less related to the general steroids related controversy in Major League Baseball and more related to information specific to Barry Bonds and his attainment of the home run record. Accordingly the example document 1 news article related to Bonds setting the home run record has now become the most relevant document to the expanded query and example document 4 that is related to the steroids controversy more generally has become much less relevant. Example documents 2 and 3 continue to be at least moderately relevant to the expanded query terms as the example document 2 biography related to Bonds and the example document 3 related to Bonds indictment both include discussion of the home run record and example document 2 mentions the prior record holder Hank Aaron.

In a similar manner to that of the illustrated information may in at least some embodiments not be displayed to the user but other information similar to that of may be displayed to the user to illustrate a revised list of relevant documents based on the new query terms . In addition the feedback provided by the user by selecting additional query terms as shown in may be used in other manners in at least some embodiments including as feedback to modify the determined relevance of particular documents and or particular terms relative to the initial query terms of .

In addition in the previously discussed examples the example query terms have been specified in a relatively simple manner in which the terms are listed without any indicated logical combination operation e.g. AND OR etc. or other indication of relative weighting or use. In other embodiments other types of information may be specified for such search queries and may be used in various ways. For example in some other embodiments users may be able to indicate not only query terms that are of interest but may also be able to indicate query terms that are not of interest for a particular query or theme and may also be allowed to modify an initial query in various other ways. For example in a manner similar to that illustrated with respect to information may be determined to reflect the least relevant other terms based on the initial query terms and such least relevant term information may similarly be displayed to the user to allow selection of terms to exclude from the expanded query. In such situations the terms of interest may be combined with terms indicated to be excluded or that are otherwise not of interest in various ways. For example with respect to the example of query terms Bonds and steroids may be indicated to be of interest but an expanded query term with the term Canseco indicated to be excluded may be specified. As shown in entry of information of the term Canseco is relevant only to document 4 of the example documents 1 5 and in particular has a document relevance number of 0.97 for document 4 in this example. Such information may be combined with the information of in various ways to treat the relevance of the excluded term Canseco to each of the documents as a reduction in overall document relevance number for the document based on the expanded query terms such as by treating the term relevance value of an excluded term to a document as the negative of the term relevance value for an included term along with expanding the range of possible values for the normalized document relevance numbers to be from 1 to 1 . If so a revised document relevance number of 0.01 may be generated for document 4 and the expanded query terms in this example by taking an average of the individual term relevance numbers of 0.04 and 0.97 for Bonds and steroids along with the negative term relevance number of 0.97 for Canseco. It will be appreciated that relevance information about excluded terms and other terms that are not of interest may be used and combined with relevance information for terms of interest in other manners in other embodiments.

In addition in a manner similar to that of in some embodiments a user may be allowed to specify one or more documents that the user considers to be particularly relevant to the query terms such as for use in determining other terms that are relevant to the query terms and or other documents that are relevant to the specified document e.g. to request similar documents to the specified document . Alternatively rather than listing particular other possible terms in the manner shown in one or more previously defined themes may instead be displayed to the user for possible selection and use in identifying further relevant documents. Such other defined themes may be specified in various ways including a textual label e.g. Bonds career home run record and or using particular terms that are part of that defined theme e.g. Bonds steroids home run Hank Aaron . If particular defined themes are selected based on their relevance to the initial query terms at least some of the defined themes may not be based on at least one of the initially specified query terms such as to indicate a defined theme based on terms such as Bonds home run Hank Aaron but without steroids and another defined theme similar to that of query . Similarly in situations in which the user selects additional query terms to use as part of an expanded query the user may further remove one or more of the prior query terms if so desired such as to remove the term steroids in the example of or to indicate that such a term should be excluded as previously discussed. The determined term relevance and document relevance information may be similarly used in a variety of other manners in other embodiments.

As another illustrative example techniques similar to those described above for query term expansion or other modification may also be used in situations in which an initially specified query term is misspelled or otherwise in a non standard or atypical form e.g. based on being in singular or plural form based on a verb being in a particular tense based on being in a different language etc. . Thus for example if the query terms of were instead bonds and staroids e.g. based on a user entering those terms but introducing uncertainty by misspelling steroids as staroids and by not capitalizing Bonds the candidate other terms may be expanded or otherwise modified to include additional terms related to addressing the uncertainty in the user specified terms. With respect to staroids for example one of the most relevant additional terms may be the term steroids such as for use instead of or in addition to staroids. The additional term steroids may in some embodiments be identified based solely on a dictionary lookup for the unrecognized word staroids e.g. optionally along with other suggested replacement terms such as asteroids toroids etc. although in other embodiments the previously discussed inter term relevance techniques may be used to identify steroids as a possible or likely candidate for a replacement or supplementary term based on a previously identified relationship between the terms staroids and steroids e.g. if staroids is a common misspelling of steroids by users and or based on a previously identified relationship between the terms bonds and steroids. In a similar manner in an effort to disambiguate the term bonds the additional terms may include choices such as Barry Bonds stocks interest rates Bobby Bonds etc. such as based on previously identified relationships between the term bonds and the other additional terms.

As previously noted in some embodiments an initial determination of the relevance of particular terms to particular documents and or to particular other terms may be made based at least in part on using TF IDF values or other information related to term frequency. In other embodiments determinations of such relevance information may be made in other manners. As one example the relevance of a particular term to one or more documents may be represented as a probability distribution or other distribution and the respective distributions for two or more such terms may be compared to determine how similar those distributions are as a measure of how related the respective terms are. Similarly particular documents may each be represented as a distribution across multiple terms and the respective distributions for two or more such documents may similarly be compared to determine how similar those documents are. Thus for example a search query with one or more terms and a document may be represented as a pair of probability distributions over desired and contained document terms with a comparison of such probability distributions being performed for some or all documents in the corpus so that the document having the most statistical information related to the query may be determined. As one example of performing such a comparison between two distributions the Kullback Leibler divergence statistical measure may be calculated to provide a convex measure of the similarity between two such distributions while in other embodiments differences in statistical information entropy may be used to compare two such distributions. Additional details regarding performing examples of such comparisons are included below and it will be appreciated that such comparisons may be performed in other manners in other embodiments.

In particular the Kullback Leibler divergence between two document related or term related distributions may be utilized to determine the similarity between the two distributions in some embodiments. The Kullback Leibler divergence for two distributions P and Q may be expressed as follows 

In addition as previously discussed illustrate examples of determining document related relevance information and theme related relevance information for a particular example group of documents and using that relevance information in various manners. As discussed elsewhere in some embodiments at least some of the determined relevance related information may be represented in various particular manners and may be updated to reflect user feedback and other changes. illustrate particular examples of representing and revising determined document relevance information and term related relevance information in various ways and in particular in these examples by generating and updating neural networks that represent determined relevance related information.

In particular illustrates an example neural network that represents the relevance of particular documents to particular terms. In this example the neural network includes various input nodes that correspond to terms identified for the corpus of documents various output nodes that represent documents in the corpus and one or more layers of interior nodes that represent calculations performed to generate document relevance numbers for particular output documents based on particular input terms . While only a single set of interior nodes are illustrated in for the sake of simplicity it will be appreciated that some such neural networks may have additional interior nodes. In addition the links between nodes represent relationships between those nodes and may include associated weights as discussed below.

As previously discussed with respect to a search query was specified that included two query terms those being Bonds and steroids . Nodes and in represent those terms in the generated neural network and are illustrated in bold for the sake of recognition. In addition in the example of normalized document relevance numbers were determined for various documents in the corpus including example documents 1 4 and those example documents 1 4 have corresponding nodes in this example. In addition information is illustrated in this example to show the normalized document relevance numbers for those example documents 1 4 based on the two query terms for this example referred to as AC for shorthand to reflect the associated interior nodes and that correspond to the nodes and for those terms. Thus for example the illustrated normalized document relevance value for document 1 based on the query terms is a value of 0.48 as previously shown in column for entry of . Similar information is illustrated for example documents 2 4.

In this example the calculation of the document relevance numbers for the output documents in the generated neural network is separated into two parts that correspond to the links between the input terms and the interior nodes and the links between the interior nodes and the output documents . In addition information and is illustrated to reflect information about the various links that are shown including by indicating an initial weight that is associated with each link based on the initial determined document relevance information. For example with respect to the link between interior node A and output node corresponding to example document 1 referred to in shorthand as link A D1 in the information that link is initially given a weight of 0.000518 or 5.18 10 as shown in information . Similarly with respect to the link between interior node C and output node referred to in shorthand as link C D1 in the information that link is initially given a weight of 0.000053 in information . In addition the links between input nodes and and interior nodes and respectively may be used to determine values of 1 641 and 2 075 respectively based on the example term relevance information described in and as described in greater detail below. Thus the normalized document relevance value for example document 1 based on the query terms and may be determined from the neural network based on those two links A D1 and C D1 as well as on the interior nodes and and on the links between the input node and interior node and between the input node and interior node e.g. by calculating 1641 0.000518 0.85 as the document relevance number for term Bonds by calculating 2075 0.000053 0.11 as the document relevance number for term steroids and with their average being 0.48 as illustrated in information of . Additional details regarding one example embodiment of generating such a neural network follows including with respect to equations 1 5 below.

In particular once the relevance of particular terms to particular documents has been determined e.g. as reflected in the DR scores for the combination of those documents and those terms that information may be represented in various ways including using a neural network that may be updated based on user feedback and in other manners. Similarly once the relevance of particular terms to other groups of one or more terms has been determined e.g. such as based in part on relevant documents for some or all of those terms that information may also be represented and updated in various ways including using a similar neural network that may be updated based on user feedback and in other manners. The weights and or other aspects of such neural networks e.g. particular links may be then modified to reflect feedback and other additional information that is obtained over time such as to improve the relevance information provided by the neural network over time to reflect automated learning from the feedback and other additional information that may be obtained. The following illustrates one particular example of generating such neural networks and of updating weights in such neural networks and other embodiments may use other related techniques.

As previously noted the DR score also referred to below as a HDR score for a document d relative to a group g of one or more specified terms i may be determined as follows in at least some embodiments.

This DR formula may similarly be used to represent a set of neural network weights representing a linear combination plus biases of TF.IDF values for individual terms i in a query having a group g of one or more such terms i corresponding to a particular document j as follows.

Furthermore using the definition of TF.IDF where xis the Term Frequency of term i in document j a TF.IDF value may be represented as follows 

For a query having a group g of one or more terms t the term frequencies in the document may be viewed as the weights of those terms in a projection into each document and then for a given query a set of weights U xand coefficients may be defined such that a relevance Neural Network may generally be expressed as follows 

Furthermore as previously noted such a generated neural network may be updated to reflect feedback and other information that indicates additional relevance related information for the domain. For example a quadratic error function may be used over a set of training examples t h as follows 

Back propagation rules for updating the network weights by stochastic gradient descent may then be derived. Accordingly the derivatives of E with respect to the weights of the model may be calculated as follows 

Training cases may be developed in various manners in various embodiments including by using user selection of a given document to set a target value of hequal to or some percentage greater than the value for the current most relevant document.

When a generated neural network is expanded to reflect inter relationships between terms such as may be useful for disambiguating between multiple overlapping or otherwise related themes learning may be performed in various manners in various embodiments. The example neural network of illustrates such an expanded neural network in which new term based output nodes are illustrated with new links between the document based nodes and the new term based output nodes . For example in such situations it is possible to choose either to keep the term frequency weights V fixed or instead to adapt both weights U and V via back propagation. As previously noted the weights U correspond generally to the links between interior nodes and document nodes with exemplary weights illustrated in and the weights V correspond generally to the links between document nodes and term based output nodes with exemplary weights illustrated in .

In such a situation one further feed forward step is used for the links between the document based nodes and new term based output nodes for the purpose of disambiguation d as follows 

In the situation in which weights V are fixed the weights V may be inverted and applied to the new d to obtain appropriate feedback values of h. Alternatively weights U and V and and may be modified with an updated error function E as follows 

In addition the range of learned parameters may be constrained by implementing a weight decay regularization in at least some embodiments. As such this results in adding quadratic terms to E and Ein U V and . The derivatives on the different weights therefore result in linear terms in the gradients of E and Ein the weights causing gradient descent to effect and exponential decay in them in the absence of an error signal based on difference to the target values of h or d. Thus for w any network weight U V and an additional term

While particular details have been described with respect to embodiments for generating and updating such neural networks it will be appreciated that other neural networks may be generated and or updated in other manners in other embodiments.

Returning to the examples previously described with respect to continues those examples and in particular illustrates changes that may occur for the neural network of over time based on feedback related to use of the determined relevance information for the corpus. In particular a modified neural network is illustrated in in which modifications have been made to the normalized document relevance value of example document 1 for the query terms and . Such changes may be based on for example repeated selection by users of example document 1 for review or other use after query terms and have been specified such as to reflect implicit user feedback that example document 1 is the most relevant document that corresponds to those specified terms or instead explicit feedback from users that indicates such relevance of example document 1. Accordingly in this example the document relevance number for example document 1 has been modified so that document 1 is the most relevant of all the example documents based on the user feedback such as in this example by modifying the normalized document relevance number to be equal to or above the most relevant other document by a specified margin e.g. by 0.01 in this example . In addition to reflect the higher normalized document relevance number the value of links A D1 and C D1 have been modified as shown in modified information . In this example the modified link weights and document relevance number are shown in bold for the sake of convenience as well as the visual representations of the links A D1 and C D1. It will be appreciated that the modifications to the weights for links A D1 and C D1 to reflect the increased document relevance value may be distributed between those links in various ways such as by increasing the link weights equally or proportionally to correspond to the increased document relevance number. Alternatively in other embodiments the learning may cause particular link weights to be updated and updated document relevance numbers may instead be generated to correspond to those updated link weights.

In addition while not illustrated in in some embodiments the modification of the document relevance score for example document 1 and or the modification of the link weights for links A D1 and C D1 may further cause modifications to other generated document relevance numbers and or link weights. For example when the relevance of example document 1 is increased for the specified terms and the relevance of other example documents 2 4 may be lowered with respect to those specified terms and to reflect a lower relative relevance value. If so the determined document relevance numbers may be lowered in various manners e.g. proportionally and corresponding link weights for the links between interior nodes and and those other example documents 2 4 may be lowered. Such other information that may be lowered in this example is shown in italics for the sake of convenience although the example values have not been adjusted in . In addition it will be appreciated that in some situations a particular term may be determined to have no relevance to a particular example document such as with respect to the term indictment as represented in input node and the example document 1 as reflected in the value in row for that term and document in . If so the link between the interior node and the node corresponding to the example document 1 may not be present or instead may be present but with a weight value of 0. In this example the links that have 0 value weights and may not be present are shown using dashed lines. It will be appreciated however that a particular link such as E D1 may initially be determined to have a weight of 0 and no relevance to a particular document such as example document 1 but learning and other modifications over time to the determined relevance information for the domain may indicate that some relevance does exist between that term and that document and if so the corresponding link and associated weight in the modified neural network may be modified to reflect that modified determined relevance.

In addition while not illustrated here in some embodiments neural networks such as and of may be modified in other manners after they are created. For example if additional documents for the corpus become available after a neural network for the corpus has been generated and or updated in some embodiments the additional documents may be incorporated into the existing neural network in various manners without re generating the entire neural network. As one example new output nodes may be created for such new documents and new links may be generated between the interior nodes and output document nodes . Furthermore the weights to be assigned to the new links may be determined in various manners such as by initializing those weights based on initial determined relevance values for existing terms to the new documents by taking an average of corresponding link weights that are already in the neural network or otherwise generating the new link weights based on some or all of the existing link weights by determining the most similar other existing documents e.g. by assessing document similarity using the Kullback Leibler divergence statistical measure as previously discussed or instead in another manner and initializing link weights and or document relevance values for the new documents based on the most similar other existing documents e.g. to take the average of the corresponding values for the most similar other existing documents etc.

The initial state of this example neural network corresponds to the example of in which the relevance of other terms is determined based on the example initial query terms . Thus for example the displayed information in includes indications of determined relevance of particular other output terms based on the input terms and shown in bold for the sake of convenience such as the term relevance number for output term for term Hank Aaron that corresponds to information for entry in . Term relevance numbers and similarly indicate term relevance numbers determined for output terms home run and indictment based on the input terms and

In a manner similar to that of illustrates a modified neural network that shows changes to the neural network of corresponding to learned changes in the relevance of particular output terms to particular input terms. In this example the input terms of current interest continue to be the query terms corresponding to input nodes and and the determined relevance of output terms Hank Aaron and home run has been modified to reflect a learned increase in the relevance of those output terms with respect to those input terms. For example as illustrated in a number of users may have selected the additional terms Hank Aaron and home run for use in expanded queries with the terms Bonds and steroids as was previously discussed with respect to the example of . In this example revised term relevance numbers and have been selected for output nodes and respectively which in this example correspond to a 50 increase in the relevance numbers for these two output terms based on the two input terms. In addition the corresponding link weights have been modified accordingly which in this example correspond to the links from each of the subset of documents that were determined to be most relevant to the input terms and which in this example include example documents 1 4 as described in to the affected output term nodes and . The term relevance numbers and links that have been modified in this example are shown in bold for the sake of convenience.

In addition in some embodiments the weights associated with some of the links may similarly be modified either instead of or in addition to the modifications to the links such as to increase the weights for the links between the interior nodes and and one or more of the example documents 1 4 to accommodate some or all of the increased relevance of the output terms and for the input terms and . In addition it will be noted that the weights of links D3 B and D4 B have been increased from having 0 values in to having small associated weights in this example although in other embodiments such weights with 0 values may not be increased.

It will be appreciated that the various weights relevance numbers and other information illustrated for the example neural networks are provided for the sake of illustration and may have other forms and may be modified in other manners in other embodiments. In addition the information illustrated in the examples of has been provided for illustrative purposes only and it will be appreciated that various of the activities described may be performed in other manners in other embodiments. In addition various other details have been shown in an abstract manner or not illustrated for the sake of understanding. Furthermore various other types of functionality may be provided and used by a DSRD service in various embodiments as discussed in greater detail elsewhere. It will also be appreciated that while a small number of terms documents and neural network nodes are illustrated in actual embodiments the actual quantities may be much larger such as to include hundreds of thousands of terms and millions of documents with corresponding numbers of neural network nodes.

While the examples of are based on analyzing terms that are present in textual documents or other content items it will be appreciated that the described techniques may be used in other manners and with other types of content. In particular a corpus of content items with other types of content may be analyzed in order to identify any other type of recognizable feature or property or other attribute that is part of the contents of those content items or that is otherwise associated with those content items and the relevance of particular attributes to content and or to other such attributes may be determined in manners similar to those discussed for textual terms. A non exclusive list of such content item attributes includes the following a type of a content item e.g. an audio stream or file a video stream or file an image etc. a source of a content item a particular object in image or video content a particular pattern of information in a stream or file content item a particular type of metadata associated with a content item etc. Such attributes may each be treated as a term such as to provide search results that are relevant to specified attributes and or to define themes or other groups of one or more related attributes.

In addition while the examples of use neural networks and back propagation learning to improve determined relevance information over time in other embodiments other types of machine learning techniques or adaptive systems may instead be used. As one example in some other embodiments the initial determined relevance information may be represented using a probabilistic Bayesian neural network that has a similar structure to that discussed in the examples of but with the node values representing conditional probabilities based on corresponding input values from preceding linked nodes in the network with probabilistic belief propagation used to determine particular relevance values and with learning involving updating conditional probability values to correspond to feedback over time.

In addition while examples are previously discussed with respect to a user specifying query terms or preference information other types of information may be used in various manners in various embodiments. For example a group of information that is specific to a user may be automatically analyzed and used to determine preference information for that user which may then be used to automatically determine other content that is relevant to that preference information. Non exclusive examples of such user specific information that may be analyzed include groups of email and other communications e.g. all email that a user has sent and or received for a specified period of time logs or histories of user actions of various types e.g. histories of searches that are performed and or interactions with resulting search results information about a user s social networks and other relationships etc. Alternatively one or more such groups of user specific information may instead in some embodiments be treated as a corpus of documents that may be of interest to that user and or to others such as automatically determine themes of interest to the user based on an analysis of such user specific information and or to allow retrieval of particular pieces of such user specific information that is relevant to current interests of the user.

For example a user may be accessing a document and the context of information from that document may be used to identify other relevant content items e.g. from that user s computing system from the Internet or other external network or data store etc. . As one specific illustrative example a user John Doe may be editing his her resume and may desire to obtain relevant work history data or other related data from the user s email store and the Web. The email store may for example have emails related to past work done by the user for Company 1 and Company 2 with the headers of those emails including the respective company names. A data store for the user whether local or remote may also contain one or more past resumes of the user or resume examples and a work related social networking site may have a history of the user s past employment. In such a situation the context that the particular user has the resume open may be used to automatically expand or supplement a search that the user specifies with the query term Doe such as to add one or more of the additional query terms John Company 1 Company 2 resume job title or description information from the resume geographical location information for the user from the resume or from other stored profile or preference information for the user etc. The expanded search may then identify various types of relevant documents or other information such as the emails related to past work done by the user for Company 1 and Company 2 other stored documents related to Company 1 and Company 2 the past resumes or resume examples the employment history information from the work related social networking site etc.

Furthermore as described in greater detail elsewhere the described techniques may be used in situations other than identifying or retrieving relevant content items. For example an automated analysis of a first group of content items may be used to identify themes that correspond to types or categories of data in the content items of the first group e.g. based on the data having matching or similar patterns and those identified themes may be used to categorize or otherwise determine a type of another data item that is used as a query term. As one illustrative example various types of encrypted data may be analyzed such that themes are identified that correspond to types of encryption schemes. If an encrypted file or other piece of encrypted data is later supplied or otherwise specified the DSRD service may automatically be used to identify one or more of the most likely encryption schemes used to encrypt that specified data piece. More generally the identified themes from a first group of content items may be types of valid solutions that are relevant to a subject area so that later queries may pose some type of mathematical or other problem for which one or more corresponding identified themes are automatically determined as possible solutions. It will be appreciated that the described techniques may similarly be used in a variety of other manners.

The DSRD system is executing in memory such as to provide an embodiment of the DSRD service. In particular the DSRD system interacts with some or all of computing systems and over the network e.g. via the Internet and or the World Wide Web via a private cellular network etc. to obtain information and requests and to provide information in response. For example the DSRD system in this example receives requests from various users not shown who are interacting with user computing systems such as requests to provide requested search results and or information about determined themes for a domain and responds accordingly. In addition one or more of the user computing systems may interact with DSRD system to perform various other types of actions such as to provide various types of feedback regarding user actions as discussed in greater detail elsewhere. The other computing systems may be executing various software as part of interactions with the DSRD system . For example user computing systems may each be executing a Web browser or other software in memory to interact with DSRD system such as to interact with a Web based GUI of the DSRD service provided by the DSRD system .

In order to determine domain specific relevance information the DSRD system obtains domain specific documents or other content from one or more sources and analyzes that information to automatically determine the domain specific relevance information. The sources of the domain specific content may vary in various embodiments such as to optionally include domain related information on local storage optional domain information on other computing systems information supplied for analysis by one or more users from user computing systems and or from optional other systems on other computing systems etc. The optional other systems on other computing systems and or the optional other systems executing in memory may have various forms in various embodiments such as affiliated services that obtain determined relevance information from the DSRD system and use that obtained information in various ways e.g. to interact with users of the user computing systems and or content provision services that provide content to the DSRD system for analysis. For example a particular optional other system may maintain and provide domain information to the DSRD system for analysis and obtain and use resulting determined relevance information from the DSRD system but with at least some of the information that is used by the DSRD system in the determination of the relevance information e.g. textual analysis information generated neural networks etc. being stored on the computing system and not provided to the other system . Alternatively in other embodiments the DSRD system may generate and use determined relevance information for one or more domains without interacting with any such optional other services. Furthermore one or more optional other third parties may use one or more of the other computing systems and interact with the DSRD service in various other manners.

Various information related to the operation of the DSRD system may be stored in storage or elsewhere e.g. remotely on one or more other computing systems such as information related to one or more domains of interest e.g. domain specific content to be analyzed or that has already been analyzed information related to the results of the analysis of domain specific content e.g. domain specific relevance information such as generated neural networks determined scores and other information related to particular terms and themes and documents etc. information to reflect information about users interactions with various domain specific information and other feedback information and various user information e.g. preferences . In other embodiments some or all of the information used by or generated by the DSRD system may be stored in other manners including on other computing systems or on other storage nodes systems not shown . The DSRD system may obtain the feedback information in various manners such as by generating the information based on interactions of the DSRD system with users e.g. when providing them with determined relevance information from optional other systems and or that interact with users and that provide those users with determined relevance information from the DSRD system by one or more systems interacting with users for the purpose of generating feedback information etc.

It will be appreciated that computing systems and are merely illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. The computing systems may instead each include multiple interacting computing systems or devices and the computing systems may be connected to other devices that are not illustrated including through one or more networks such as the Internet via the Web or via private networks e.g. mobile communication networks etc. . More generally a computing system may comprise any combination of hardware or software that may interact and perform the described types of functionality including without limitation desktop or other computers database servers network storage devices and other network devices PDAs cellphones and wireless phones and other phone systems pagers electronic organizers Internet appliances television based systems e.g. using set top boxes and or personal digital video recorders broadcast systems and various other consumer products that include appropriate communication capabilities using any appropriate communication protocol. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated DSRD system may in some embodiments be distributed in various modules. Similarly in some embodiments some of the functionality of the DSRD system may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

It will also be appreciated that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or systems may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing systems via inter computer communication. Furthermore in some embodiments some or all of the systems and or modules may be implemented or provided in other manners such as at least partially in firmware and or hardware including but not limited to one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs standard integrated circuits controllers e.g. by executing appropriate instructions and including microcontrollers and or embedded controllers field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs etc. as well as devices that employ RFID technology. Some or all of the modules systems and data structures may also be stored e.g. as software instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable media article to be read by an appropriate drive or via an appropriate connection including as encoded in one or more barcodes or other related codes stored on one or more such computer readable mediums and being readable by an appropriate reader device. The systems modules and data structures may also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums and may take a variety of forms or more generally may be mediated on any computer readable medium. Such computer program products may also take other forms in other embodiments. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

In the illustrated embodiment the routine begins at block where an indication of a request or other information is received. The routine continues to block to determine whether a request is received to determine relevance related information for an indicated domain or if domain specific content to be analyzed has been provided and if so continues to block . In blocks the routine then analyzes domain specific information in order to determine relevance related information for the domain and stores that information for later use. In addition while blocks are illustrated as performing an initial determination of relevance related information for a domain of interest in at least some embodiments some or all of blocks may similarly be performed to modify previously determined relevance information such as to revise the previously determined relevance information based on user feedback and or to expand the previously determined relevance information based on newly available domain specific content.

In particular the routine in block obtains documents or other domain specific information for the domain to be analyzed such as based on documents currently received in block documents previously received and stored for later use documents retrieved from an external location indicated in the request received in block etc. After block the routine continues to block to perform a Domain Analysis Manager routine to analyze term information for the available domain specific content with one example of such a routine being illustrated with respect to . After block the routine continues to block to perform a Relevant Theme Determination Manager routine to determine relevant theme related information for the domain with one example of such a routine being illustrated with respect to . After block the routine continues to block to perform a Relevant Document Determination Manager routine to determine particular documents of the domain that are relevant to particular terms and themes with one example of such a routine being illustrated with respect to . After block the routine continues to block to store the determined relevance information and or to optionally provide the determined relevance information to the requester such as if the information was determined dynamically in response to a request or is being supplied to accommodate a previous request.

If it is instead determined in block that another type of request or information is received the routine continues instead to block to determine whether a request has been received to provide determined relevance information for an indicated domain. Such determined relevance information may be provided for various reasons and at various times such as in response to a search request or as part of assisting a user in specifying information regarding one or more themes of interest as well as in various manners e.g. as part of a Web page or other information screen provided to a user for display or other presentation on a client device of the user . If it is determined in block that a request has been received to provide determined relevance information for an indicated domain the routine continues to block to determine whether the requested relevance information has already been determined and stored for later use in blocks or if some or all of the requested relevance information is to be dynamically generated. In other embodiments such a determination may not be made such as if relevance information provided in response to such requests is always previously determined and stored or is always dynamically determined. In the illustrated embodiment if it is determined in block to use stored relevance information the routine continues to block to obtain the requested relevance information from information that was previously determined and stored.

In addition the actions of block may be performed in various manners in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments at least some types of determined relevance information may be available to only a subset of users or other entities who are authorized to receive the information and if so the actions for one or more of blocks may further include determining whether the requester is authorized to receive the requested information e.g. has provided an appropriate fee for paid access to the information has a particular identity that is verified as being authorized to receive confidential requested information etc. . In addition requests may be received and information may be provided in various manners including in electronic messages or via programmatic interactions using one or more APIs provided by the DSRD service such as by an affiliated service. Alternatively a Web based request may be received from a user e.g. based a Web based information search GUI or other GUI provided by the DSRD service or other affiliated service and the requested information may be supplied to the user as part of one or more generated Web pages that are sent in response to the request.

If it is instead determined in block to dynamically obtain at least some of the requested relevance information the routine continues instead to block to perform the dynamic obtaining of the information. In particular as is illustrated in the example routine the performance of block may include executing one or more of the other routines corresponding to blocks and obtaining resulting information from the routines. In addition while not illustrated here in some embodiments the performance of block may further include obtaining documents or other content to be analyzed such as by initiating performance of block as well or instead such content to be used may be received in block and provided to one or more of the routines corresponding to blocks as part of the performance of block . After blocks or the routine continues to block to provide the obtained information to the user or other requester which may be performed in various manners in various embodiments as discussed in greater detail elsewhere. Furthermore it will be appreciated that the performance of block may involve multiple interactions with the user or other requester in at least some situations such as to initially provide some information and to later provide additional information or perform other interactions with the user or other requester based on actions taken by the user or other requester after the initial provision of information. After block the routine continues to block to optionally obtain or determine feedback from the use of the provided relevance information by the user or other requester and if so retains the feedback in the illustrated embodiment for later use in performing learning actions to improve previously determined relevance information in other embodiments the routine may instead immediately use any such obtained feedback in at least some situations such as to re perform the routines corresponding to one or more of blocks using the feedback information.

If it is instead determined in block that a request has not been received to provide determined relevance information for an indicated domain the routine continues instead to block to perform one or more other indicated operations as appropriate. For example domain specific content may be received in block and stored for later analysis such as information for a new domain to be analyzed and or new or updated information for a domain for which relevance information was previously determined. Alternatively other types of information may be received and used in block such as feedback information related to the use of previously determined relevance information and may be used in various manners. For example if one or more predefined criteria are satisfied by the feedback received in block and or stored in block e.g. based on a minimum or maximum amount of feedback that is obtained a minimum or maximum amount of time since a previous determination of corresponding relevance information etc. the performance of block may trigger an additional performance of the routines corresponding to one or more of blocks using the feedback information in order to learn and update previously determined relevance information as described in greater detail elsewhere. In addition other types of requests may be received and processed in block such as requests to update previously determined relevance information e.g. based on subsequent feedback information subsequent additional domain specific content that is available etc. such as a request from a user or other entity with which the DSRD service interacts or from a human operator of the DSRD service. Similarly various administrative requests from a human operator of the DSRD service may be received and processed.

After blocks or the routine continues to block to determine whether to continue such as until an explicit indication to terminate is received. If it is determined to continue the routine returns to block and if not continues to block and ends.

The illustrated embodiment of the routine begins in block where an indication of documents to be analyzed for a domain or another request is received. The routine continues to block to determine whether documents to be analyzed were received. If so the routine continues to block to analyze each of the documents to determine terms that are present in the documents. In addition as discussed in greater detail elsewhere the determination of terms for a document may include a variety of types of term processing in various embodiments such as to normalize terms e.g. using term stemming to combine related terms to remove common terms e.g. the a an of and etc. or other indicated terms to aggregate multiple words together into single terms for purposes of the later analysis to generate an index of the terms in the document etc. After block the routine continues to block to perform a term frequency determination for the terms of each document and in block performs an inverse document frequency determination for each term across all of the documents. In block the routine then determines a TF IDF score for each term and document combination based on the information generated in blocks and . After block the routine continues to block to store the determined information for later use and to optionally provide the determined information as output e.g. as a response to a dynamic invocation of the routine for the determined information such as with respect to block of or for use by the Relevant Theme Determination Manager routine of and or the Relevant Document Determination Manager routine of such as corresponding to blocks and or of .

If it is instead determined in block that documents to be analyzed were not received the routine continues instead to block to perform one or more other indicated operations as appropriate. For example the other operations may include receiving and responding to requests for previously generated document term analysis information to requests to update previously determined document analysis information to reflect new domain specific content that is available to administrative requests from a human operator of the DSRD service etc.

After blocks or the routine continues to block to determine whether to continue such as until an explicit indication to terminate is received. If it is determined to continue the routine returns to block and if not continues to block and ends.

In addition in the illustrated embodiment the determination of theme related relevance information for a domain in is illustrated as being performed separately from the determination of document related relevance information for the domain in although in other embodiments the determination of such types of relevance information may be performed in other manners. For example only one of theme related relevance information and document related relevance information may be determined in a particular embodiment the determination of both theme related and document related relevance information for a domain may be performed together as part of a single routine information that is common to both types of determinations may be performed once and then shared between two distinct routines etc.

The illustrated embodiment of the routine begins at block where document term analysis information for the documents of a domain is received e.g. as output of routine of as information supplied as part of a dynamic determination request etc. or another request is received. The routine continues to block to determine if document term analysis information is received and if so continues to block . In the illustrated embodiment blocks are performed to determine theme related information for each group of one or more terms of the domain that are of interest. Terms to be analyzed may be selected by for example using each term present in any of the documents optionally excluding common terms and or other indicated terms . Alternatively the groups of terms to be analyzed may include for example each combination of two terms or of another indicated quantity of terms that are present in the documents of the domain each combination of two terms or of another indicated quantity of terms that are determined to be sufficiently potentially related to each other e.g. above a specified threshold etc. In addition the blocks may be performed repeatedly to evaluate and revise information about the inter relatedness of multiple terms such as to initially perform the blocks for each term individually to next perform the determination for at least some combinations of two terms e.g. based on information available from the performance of the blocks for those terms individually to next perform the determination for at least some combinations of three terms e.g. based on information available from the performance of the blocks for particular terms that are sufficiently related to previously selected combinations of two terms etc.

In particular in the illustrated embodiment the routine in block selects the next group of one or more terms to be considered beginning with the first such group and in block similarly selects the next document of the domain to be considered beginning with the first document. In block the routine then determines the normalized average relevance of the selected term s to the selected document such as based on averaging or otherwise aggregating normalized TF IDF scores for each selected term for the selected document. In block the routine then determines whether there are more documents to be analyzed and if so returns to block . Otherwise the routine continues to block to determine the most relevant documents for the currently selected term s based on the relevant scores determined in block . Next in block the routine identifies one or more of the determined most relevant documents and uses the identified documents to determine other terms that are potentially most relevant to the selected term s such as based on the term frequency of those other terms in the identified document s or other indication of the relevance of those other terms to the identified document s .

In addition in some embodiments the other terms that are determined to be most relevant to the selected term s may optionally be combined with the one or more of the selected term s for possible use as a theme and or for possible later analysis with respect to blocks for the combined group of those terms such as to optionally find additional other terms that may be related to that combined group of terms. Such an ongoing analysis of possible relationships of additional other terms to currently selected terms may be performed in various manners such as by individually combining the group of selected terms with each of the most relevant other terms with all of the most relevant other terms with some or all sub combinations of the most relevant other terms etc. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the most relevant other terms may be combined with some or all of the selected terms to identify possible themes in other manners and or later feedback from the use of terms together by users may be used to refine which groups of terms are related together as themes for the domain.

After block the routine continues to block to determine if there are more groups of one or more terms to consider and if so returns to block . Otherwise the routine continues to block to in the illustrated embodiment generate a neural network to reflect the relevance of terms in the domain to other terms in the domain such as based in part on the information generated with respect to blocks and . As discussed with respect to block such a generated neural network may also later be updated based on feedback to refine the determination of the inter relatedness of particular terms for the domain. After block the routine continues to block to store the determined relevant theme related information and the generated neural network and optionally provides some or all of the determined information as output if appropriate e.g. as a response to a request to dynamically generate that information .

If it is instead determined in block that document term analysis information is not received the routine continues instead to block to determine if feedback information is received or determinable such as based on use of previously determined and provided relevance information. If so the routine continues to block to use the feedback information to update a previously generated neural network that corresponds to the feedback as discussed in greater detail elsewhere. The performance of block further stores the updated neural network information and optionally provides the updated information to a requester as output of the routine. If it is instead determined in block that feedback information is not received the routine continues instead to block to perform one or more other indicated operations as appropriate. For example such other indicated operations may include receiving a request to supply previously determined theme related information for a domain e.g. the theme related information from a current version of a particular previously generated neural network for the domain such as after the neural network has been updated receiving user feedback information to later use in refining determined theme related information for the domain e.g. particular groups of terms that are selected together to represent a theme receiving a request from a user or other entity or other human operator to perform an update to previously determined theme related information e.g. based on user feedback and or additional domain specific content that is available for the domain receiving other administrative requests from a human operator of the DSRD service etc. Feedback information that is received for later use may be handled in various manners. For example if one or more predefined criteria are satisfied by the feedback e.g. based on a minimum or maximum amount of feedback that is obtained a minimum or maximum amount of time since a previous determination of corresponding relevance information etc. the performance of block may trigger a subsequent performance of the routine in which that feedback information is supplied for use in block .

After blocks or the routine continues to block to determine whether to continue such as until an explicit indication to terminate is received. If it is determined to continue the routine returns to block and if not continues to block and ends.

The illustrated embodiment of the routine begins at block where document term analysis information for the documents of a domain is received e.g. as output of routine of as information supplied as part of a dynamic determination request etc. or another request is received. The routine continues to block to determine if document term analysis information is received and if so continues to block . In the illustrated embodiment blocks are performed to determine document related information for each group of one or more terms of the domain that are of interest such as in a manner similar to blocks of . Terms to be analyzed may be selected by for example using each term present in any of the documents optionally excluding common terms and or other indicated terms or in other manners as described in greater detail with respect to .

In particular in the illustrated embodiment the routine in block selects the next group of one or more terms to be considered beginning with the first such group and in block similarly selects the next document of the domain to be considered beginning with the first document. In block the routine then determines the normalized average relevance of the selected term s to the selected document such as based on averaging or otherwise aggregating normalized TF IDF scores for each selected term for the selected document. In block the routine then determines whether there are more documents to be analyzed and if so returns to block . Otherwise the routine continues to block to determine the most relevant documents for the currently selected term s based on the relevant scores determined in block . Next in block the routine determines if there are more groups of one or more terms to consider and if so returns to block .

Otherwise the routine continues to block to in the illustrated embodiment generate a neural network to reflect the relevance of terms in the domain to documents in the domain such as based in part on the information generated with respect to blocks and . As discussed with respect to block such a generated neural network may also later be updated based on feedback to refine the determination of the relatedness of particular terms for the domain to particular documents of the domain. After block the routine continues to block to store the determined relevant document related information and the generated neural network and optionally provides some or all of the determined information as output if appropriate e.g. as a response to a request to dynamically generate that information .

If it is instead determined in block that document term analysis information is not received the routine continues instead to block to determine if feedback information is received or determinable such as based on use of previously determined and provided relevance information. If so the routine continues to block to use the feedback information to update a previously generated neural network that corresponds to the feedback as discussed in greater detail elsewhere. The performance of block further stores the updated neural network information and optionally provides the updated information to a requester as output of the routine. If it is instead determined in block that feedback information is not received the routine continues instead to block to perform one or more other indicated operations as appropriate. For example such other indicated operations may include receiving a request to supply previously determined document related information for a domain e.g. the document related information from a current version of a particular previously generated neural network for the domain such as after the neural network has been updated receiving user feedback information to later use in refining determined document related information for the domain e.g. particular documents that are selected for use corresponding to a specified theme or other group of terms receiving a request from a user or other entity or other human operator to perform an update to previously determined document related information e.g. based on user feedback and or additional domain specific content that is available for the domain receiving other administrative requests from a human operator of the DSRD service etc. Feedback information that is received for later use may be handled in various manners. For example if one or more predefined criteria are satisfied by the feedback e.g. based on a minimum or maximum amount of feedback that is obtained a minimum or maximum amount of time since a previous determination of corresponding relevance information etc. the performance of block may trigger a subsequent performance of the routine in which that feedback information is supplied for use in block .

After blocks or the routine continues to block to determine whether to continue such as until an explicit indication to terminate is received. If it is determined to continue the routine returns to block and if not continues to block and ends.

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the functionality provided by the routines discussed above may be provided in alternative ways such as being split among more routines or consolidated into fewer routines. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated routines may provide more or less functionality than is described such as when other illustrated routines instead lack or include such functionality respectively or when the amount of functionality that is provided is altered. In addition while various operations may be illustrated as being performed in a particular manner e.g. in serial or in parallel and or in a particular order those skilled in the art will appreciate that in other embodiments the operations may be performed in other orders and in other manners. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the data structures discussed above may be structured in different manners such as by having a single data structure split into multiple data structures or by having multiple data structures consolidated into a single data structure. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated data structures may store more or less information than is described such as when other illustrated data structures instead lack or include such information respectively or when the amount or types of information that is stored is altered.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the claims that are specified and the elements recited therein. In addition while certain aspects of the invention may be presented at times in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the invention in any available claim form. For example while only some aspects of the invention may be recited at a particular time as being embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be so embodied.

