---

title: Tailoring content to be delivered to mobile device based upon features of mobile device
abstract: A method for delivering tailored specific content to a mobile device. A shim application is provided to the mobile device by a content server after the mobile device visits the content server for the first time. The shim application detects the capabilities of the mobile device, such as the screen size, screen resolution, memory size, browser capabilities, etc. The shim application then includes such information in the header of the requests, such as a request for content, sent from the mobile device to the content server. The content server then generates the requested content in the appropriate format based on the information provided in the header. In this manner, the content server will now be able to ensure that the content provided by the content server for a particular mobile device will be appropriately displayed on the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432479&OS=09432479&RS=09432479
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09432479
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120226
---
The present application is a continuation application of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 193 810 which was filed on Jul. 29 2011 which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention. The present application claims priority benefits to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 193 810.

The present invention relates to mobile communications and more particularly to tailoring the content delivered to a mobile device based upon the features of the mobile device.

In the marketplace there are currently numerous different types of mobile devices. Mobile devices include mobile or cellular phones smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs palmtop computers laptop computers and the like. These mobile devices function as wireless communication devices via a wireless communication link GSM GRPS 3G CSMA and the like and access content over a wireless network infrastructure.

Each of these mobile devices may include different variations and features such as web browser s as part of their platform. As a result there may be difficulty in delivering content in an appropriate format to a great number of these mobile devices due to their varying features such as varying mobile web browsers. For example the content may not be able to be rendered appropriately on some of these mobile devices since the content provider may not be transmitting content in a format compliant with their web browsers.

The World Wide Web Consortium W3C has attempted to address this problem by adopting the Composite Capabilities Preference Profile CC PP . The CC PP is a specification for defining capabilities and preferences of user agents where a user agent may refer to a client application implementing a network protocol used in communications within a client server distributed computing system. With the CC PP a repository is created that maps the user agent to a set of features that are supported for that mobile device. However the repository must be constantly updated in order to ensure that the mapping is up to date.

An additional attempt to address the difficulty in delivering content in an appropriate format to a great number of mobile devices with varying features is to have the mobile devices contain all of the possible libraries for the various mobile browser vendors thereby ensuring that the content is rendered on the mobile device appropriately. However requiring the mobile devices to contain all of the possible libraries for the various mobile browser vendors is burdensome. Furthermore the libraries would constantly need to be updated to ensure they are up to date.

Hence there has not been an effective solution to delivering content in an appropriate format to a great number of mobile devices due to their varying features such as varying mobile web browsers.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method for delivering tailored specific content to a mobile device comprises providing a shim application to the mobile device where the shim application detects capabilities of the mobile device. The method further comprises receiving a request for content where the request comprises header information providing the capabilities of the mobile device. Additionally the method comprises generating the content in a format compliant to the mobile device based on the header information. In addition the method comprises transmitting by a processor the generated content to the mobile device.

The foregoing has outlined rather generally the features and technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the present invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be described hereinafter which may form the subject of the claims of the present invention.

The present invention comprises a method system and computer program product for delivering tailored specific content to a mobile device. In one embodiment of the present invention a shim application is provided to the mobile device by a content server after the mobile device visits the content server for the first time. The shim application detects the capabilities of the mobile device such as the screen size screen resolution memory size browser capabilities etc. The shim application then includes such information in the header of the requests such as a request for content sent from the mobile device to the content server. The content server then generates the requested content in the appropriate format based on the information provided in the header. In this manner the content server will now be able to ensure that the content provided by the content server for a particular mobile device will be appropriately displayed on the mobile device.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known circuits have been shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. For the most part details considering timing considerations and the like have been omitted inasmuch as such details are not necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention and are within the skills of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

Referring now to the Figures in detail illustrates a network system configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Network system includes mobile devices A C identified as Mobile Device A Mobile Device B and Mobile Device C respectively in . Mobile devices A C may collectively or individually be referred to as mobile devices or mobile device respectively. Mobile device may be any mobile computing device including but not limited to a mobile phone a cellular phone a smart phone a personal digital assistance PDA a gaming unit a portable computing unit tablet personal computer and the like. System may include any number of mobile devices and the depiction of three mobile devices A C in is for illustrative purposes. A description of one embodiment of the hardware configuration of mobile device is provided below in connection with .

Mobile devices are in wireless communication with a content server via a network which may be for example a wireless wide area network a circuit switched telephone network a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network Wireless Application Protocol WAP network a WiFi network an IEEE 802.11 standards network various combinations thereof etc. Other networks whose descriptions are omitted here for brevity may also be used in conjunction with system of without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Content server is configured to receive and provide services and information to mobile devices . In particular content server is configured to receive a request for content from mobile device and to ensure that the content is formatted in a format compliant for mobile device based on header information provided by a shim application as discussed further below. A description of one embodiment of the hardware configuration of content server is provided below in connection with .

While illustrates a single content server the principles of the present invention are not so constrained. For example content may be served from a plurality of content servers including a content server farm a distributed server architecture and the like without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments.

Referring now to illustrates a hardware configuration of mobile device which is representative of a hardware environment for practicing the present invention. Referring to mobile device has a processor coupled to various other components by system bus . An operating system runs on processor and provides control and coordinates the functions of the various components of . An application in accordance with the principles of the present invention runs in conjunction with operating system and provides calls to operating system where the calls implement the various functions or services to be performed by application . Application may include for example a browser an application shim provided by content server used to detect the capabilities e.g. screen size screen resolution memory size browser capabilities of mobile device as discussed further below in association with .

Referring again to read only memory ROM is coupled to system bus and includes a basic input output system BIOS that controls certain basic functions of mobile device . Random access memory RAM and disk adapter are also coupled to system bus . It should be noted that software components including operating system and application may be loaded into RAM which may be mobile device s main memory for execution. Disk adapter may be an integrated drive electronics IDE adapter that communicates with a disk unit e.g. disk drive.

Mobile device may further include a communications adapter coupled to bus . Communications adapter interconnects bus with an outside network network thereby enabling mobile device to communicate with content server .

I O devices may also be connected to mobile device via a user interface adapter and a display adapter . Keyboard mouse and speaker may all be interconnected to bus through user interface adapter . Data may be inputted to mobile device through any of these devices. A display monitor may be connected to system bus by display adapter . In this manner a user is capable of inputting to mobile device through keyboard or mouse and receiving output from mobile device via display or speaker .

As stated above illustrates a hardware configuration of a content server which is representative of a hardware environment for practicing the present invention. Referring to content server has a processor coupled to various other components by system bus . An operating system runs on processor and provides control and coordinates the functions of the various components of . An application in accordance with the principles of the present invention runs in conjunction with operating system and provides calls to operating system where the calls implement the various functions or services to be performed by application . Application may include for example a program for delivering tailored specific content to mobile device as discussed further below in association with .

Referring again to read only memory ROM is coupled to system bus and includes a basic input output system BIOS that controls certain basic functions of content server . Random access memory RAM and disk adapter are also coupled to system bus . It should be noted that software components including operating system and application may be loaded into RAM which may be content server s main memory for execution. Disk adapter may be an integrated drive electronics IDE adapter that communicates with a disk unit e.g. disk drive. It is noted that the program for delivering tailored specific content to mobile device as discussed further below in association with may reside in disk unit or in application .

Content server may further include a communications adapter coupled to bus . Communications adapter interconnects bus with an outside network network thereby allowing content server to communicate with mobile devices .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the present invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to product a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the function acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the function acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As stated in the Background section mobile devices may include different variations and features such as web browser s as part of their platform. As a result there may be difficulty in delivering content in an appropriate format to a great number of these mobile devices due to their varying features such as varying mobile web browsers. For example the content may not be able to be rendered appropriately on some of these mobile devices since the content provider may not be transmitting content in a format compliant with their web browsers. Currently there has not been an effective solution to delivering content in an appropriate format to a great number of mobile devices due to their varying features such as varying mobile web browsers.

The principles of the present invention provide an improved technique for delivering content in an appropriate format to various mobile devices with varying platforms by having the content server deliver specifically tailored content to each mobile device as discussed below in connection with . is a flowchart of a method for delivering tailored specific content to a mobile device.

As stated above is flowchart of a method for delivering tailored specific content to a mobile device in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

In step a determination is made by server as to whether the visit by mobile device is a first time visit. If the visit is not a first time visit then content sever continues to monitor a visit by a subsequent mobile device in step .

If however content server detects a first time visit by mobile device then in step content server provides a shim application to mobile device . A shim application refers to a small library which transparently intercepts an application programming interface of mobile device changes the parameters passed handles the operation itself or redirects the operation elsewhere. Providing the shim application as used herein includes any means for the shim application to be provided to mobile device including having content server directly transmit the shim application to mobile device as well as having content server transmit a link to a website to download the shim application. In one embodiment the shim application will be specific to mobile device and will act as a client side proxy application. In one embodiment the shim application will be configured as part of the installation.

In step the user of mobile device installs the shim application on mobile device . Once installed in step the shim application will detect the capabilities of mobile device . For example the shim application can detect one or more of the following capabilities screen size screen resolution memory size browser capabilities and the like. This list is not intended to be limiting but to provide examples of information that may be used to determine the capabilities of mobile device so that content server appropriately formats the content to be appropriately displayed on mobile device . Embodiments of the present invention cover any such information regarding the capabilities of mobile device that may be used by content server to appropriately format the content to be appropriately displayed on mobile device .

In step the information regarding the capabilities of mobile device detected by the shim application is stored in a cache not shown in of mobile device . The cache may be located internal within processor or located external to processor . The cache may be any type of cache e.g. physically indexed physically tagged virtually indexed virtually tagged virtually indexed physically tagged .

In step content server receives a request for content from mobile device where the request includes header information that provides content server with the features or capabilities mobile device supports such as the capabilities detected in step . In one embodiment the shim application adds the header information to the beginning of the data i.e. request being transmitted to content server where the header information is obtained from the cache of mobile device .

In step content server processes the request. In step content server generates specific content to be delivered to mobile device based on the received header information thereby ensuring that the content is formatted in a manner so that it will be appropriately displayed on mobile device . By content server receiving information regarding the capabilities of mobile device via the header information content server will now be able to ensure that the content provided by content server for a particular mobile device will be appropriately displayed on mobile device .

In some implementations method may include other and or additional steps that for clarity are not depicted. Further in some implementations method may be executed in a different order presented and that the order presented in the discussion of is illustrative. Additionally in some implementations certain steps in method may be executed in a substantially simultaneous manner or may be omitted.

An example of a program using the principles of the present invention includes a program for generating charts and gauges which can be generated either on the client side or on the server side. The determination as to whether the program generates the charts and gauges on either the client side or on the server side can be determined based on the memory capabilities of mobile device which is obtained from the shim application.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

