---

title: Mobile voice platform architecture with remote service interfaces
abstract: A mobile voice platform for providing a user speech interface to computer-based services includes a mobile device having a processor, communication circuitry that provides access to the computer-based services, an operating system, and one or more applications that are run using the operating system and that utilize one or more of the computer-based services via the communication circuitry. The mobile voice platform includes at least one non-transient digital storage medium storing a program module having computer instructions that, upon execution by the processor, receives speech recognition results representing user speech that has been processed using automated speech recognition, determines a desired computer-based service based on the speech recognition results, accesses a remotely-stored service interface associated with the desired service, initiates the desired service using the service interface, receives a service result from the desired service, and provides a text-based service response for conversion to a speech response to be provided to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326088&OS=09326088&RS=09326088
owner: GM Global Technology Operations LLC
number: 09326088
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Application No. 61 550 367 filed on Oct. 21 2011 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to speech interfaces with computer based services obtained wirelessly from a cellular phone or other mobile device and to such interfaces implemented in a vehicle such as a passenger car.

Speech based human machine interfaces HMI to vehicle functions and cellular phone functions and applications typically involve an application specific or function specific limited command set that requires syntactically constrained interactions between the user and HMI. In these systems inputted speech may be converted into a specific command for a specific application but there is typically only limited ability to identify and carry out different services involving different applications or service providers.

In the realm of cellular phone use in vehicles systems have been proposed and some implemented that help reduce driver distraction by providing a hands free telephony experience as well as carry out some basic vehicle control tasks such as selecting and controlling radio and other infotainment services on the vehicle. In some systems this is done using an embedded cellular phone that has access to at least portions of the vehicle electronics so as to permit control and reporting via a speech user interface. In other vehicles the driver or other occupant s personal mobile device e.g. cellular phone is used for this purpose with the vehicle providing a basic audio interface that includes a microphone and one or more speakers as well as a Bluetooth or other wireless connection to the mobile device. This permits speech and other audio to be sent between the audio interface and mobile device in either direction. However these systems are typically limited to only enabling a few basic mobile device functions such as calling and controlling music selection and playback. They do not provide access to the many other built in and user added applications and functions typically available today.

For example there is now widespread availability and use of mobile devices such as smartphones that permit user downloading and installing of relatively small software applications apps . Some of these smartphones have built in speech support either via the operating system OS such as in the case of the Android OS or via a built in app such as Siri available on the iPhone4S . See for example WO2011088053 published Jul. 21 2011. While providing a greater level of integration these commercially available systems are not configured to provide a fully hands free experience with the mobile device since they still rely heavily on the screen to interact with the user during the speech session.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a mobile voice platform for providing a user speech interface to computer based services using a mobile device having a processor communication circuitry that provides access to the computer based services an operating system and one or more applications that are run using the operating system and that utilize one or more of the computer based services via the communication circuitry the mobile voice platform comprising at least one non transient digital storage medium storing a program module having computer instructions that upon execution by the processor receives speech recognition results representing user speech that has been processed using automated speech recognition determines a desired computer based service based on the speech recognition results accesses a remotely stored service interface associated with the desired service initiates the desired service using the service interface receives a service result from the desired service and provides a text based service response for conversion to a speech response to be provided to the user.

According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a communication system for communicating between a mobile device and one or more cloud services. The communication system includes a cellular or wireless communication system that carries wireless communications between one or more computer based services and a mobile device wherein the mobile device comprises a processor communication circuitry that provides access to the computer based services an operating system one or more applications that are run using the operating system and that utilize one or more of the computer based services via the communication circuitry and cellular or wireless communication system and a mobile voice platform for providing a user speech interface to computer based services using a device wherein the mobile voice platform includes at least one non transient digital storage medium storing a program module having computer instructions that upon execution by the processor receives speech recognition results representing user speech that has been processed using automated speech recognition determines a desired computer based service based on the speech recognition results accesses a remotely stored service interface associated with the desired service initiates the desired service using the service interface receives a service result from the desired service and provides a text based service response for conversion to a speech response to be provided to the user.

The system and method described below provide a mobile voice platform that 1 enable hands free communication between a vehicle occupant and the occupant s cellular phone or other mobile device without the need to physically interact with the mobile device and 2 does so in a manner that enables broad support to some or all of the Internet based and other computer based services available to the user via the mobile device. As used herein services generally include the provision of information control and or communication assistance to the mobile device user. Further as used herein a service being used on or accessed via the mobile device includes those provided by way of applications installed on the mobile device as well as computer based services that are only available by communication with a remote server. These latter computer based services are also referred to as cloud services and may be supplied by any service provider having an accessible server that is available over a private or public network such as an intranet or the Internet.

In the illustrated embodiment a driver of a vehicle interacts via speech with an on board installed audio user interface that communicates via a short range wireless connection with the driver s mobile device which in this case is a cellular phone. Mobile device can be any portable device capable of wireless communication and digital processing whether using a microprocessor or some simpler or more complex circuitry. Thus mobile devices include cellular phones PDAs laptops notebooks netbooks and other personal electronic devices. The cellular phone depicted in is commonly referred to as a smartphone given that it permits the user to add software applications apps to the smartphone that perform functions beyond telephony. Phone includes a touchscreen interface one or more manual pushbuttons a microphone speaker and internal circuitry hardware including a microprocessor memory for storage of software and data and communication circuitry that includes at least short range wireless communication technology such as Bluetooth and or WiFi but also cellular communication technology such as a cellular chipset for CDMA GSM or other standardized technology. These various components of mobile device may be conventional if desired and thus are not separately illustrated or described in detail herein.

Apart from the mobile device hardware cellular phone includes a mobile voice platform MVP comprising software running on the mobile device. MVP includes a speech platform kernel SPK and an application interface suite AIS both of which are program modules comprising computer instructions that upon execution by the device s processor carry out their respective module s functions as will be described below. Rather than providing automated speech processing ASR on the mobile device itself remotely located cloud speech services are used although in some embodiments ASR can be carried out on the mobile device either with or without access to remotely located speech modules grammars and computing facilities. Mobile device also includes an operating system OS that provides root level functions including for example inter application communication mechanisms and input output I O interfacing between device hardware and the software modules and applications running on device . Included in these hardware interfacing functions of the OS are the communication protocols used by the device to communicate with the speech services as well as other cloud services that are available via the Internet or other network. Any computer based service can be included in the list of cloud services but shown in are some of those services most useful to users of cellular phones i.e. social media location services e.g. navigation traffic weather news calendaring dining and movies. Many others exist.

In general hands free access to services using mobile voice platform will involve carrying out a completed speech session via mobile device without any physical interaction with the mobile device. This broadly includes receiving a speech input from a user obtaining a service result from a cloud service that is responsive to the content of the speech input and providing the service result as a speech response presented to the user. Using vehicle of the driver user may interact with the mobile device to carry out the speech session via the audio interface . This may include establishing a short range wireless connection between the in vehicle audio interface and mobile device that then allows the microphone and speaker of the audio interface to be used to receive and present speech respectively to the driver or other occupant. The speech input may be sent as digitized speech over this short range wireless connection via a digital communication protocol such as Bluetooth or WiFi. The digitized speech input may then be sent from the mobile device via a cellular or other wireless communication system to the speech services to carry out speech to text STT services that involve automated speech recognition or text to speech TTS services that provide either synthesized or recorded speech or speech portions e.g. phenomes for use in generating an audio message that provides a suitable speech response to the speech input. The speech recognition results e.g. returned text is then processed by the SPK to ultimately determine the appropriate desired service to be used to carry out the user s request. Once the desired service s have been determined a service request is formed using the commands and parameters supported by the particular service selected using one or more service interfaces from the application interface suite AIS as will be discussed in greater detail below. The service request is sent to the desired service installed app and or cloud service and a service result is received back. That service result is then used to generate a natural language speech response that is using conversational language and sentence clause structures that are familiar and context specific. The speech response may be an audio message that is initially built as a text response from information in the service result as well as from other available information such as session variables and context specific items as will be discussed in greater detail below. Once the text response has been formulated it is converted to an audio speech response e.g. audio message and this can be done either on the mobile device itself or using the TTS services . The audio message may then be sent from the mobile device to the audio user interface via the short range wireless connection for presentation to the vehicle occupant over the vehicle speaker s .

Turning now to there is shown an operating environment that comprises a mobile vehicle communications system that incorporates the speech based user interface SUI and that can be used to implement the methods disclosed herein. Communications system generally includes the vehicle and its audio user interface mobile device speech services and cloud services as well as some of the system infrastructure not shown in including one or more wireless carrier systems and a land communications network . Other optional equipment facilities and systems can be included such as a computer call center residence or other fixed local area network facility satellite communication system with fixed antenna and one or more satellites and also a constellation of GPS satellites for navigation. It should be understood that the disclosed method can be used with any number of different systems and is not specifically limited to the operating environment shown here. Also the architecture construction setup and operation of the components of system not described herein are generally known in the art. Thus the following paragraphs simply provide a brief overview of one such communications system however other systems not shown here could employ the disclosed method as well.

Vehicle is depicted in the illustrated embodiment as a sports utility vehicle SUV but it should be appreciated that any other vehicle including passenger cars trucks motorcycles recreational vehicles RVs marine vessels aircraft etc. can also be used. Some of the vehicle electronics are shown generally in and include a telematics or telephony unit that communicates wirelessly with carrier system via an antenna and other circuitry known to those skilled in the art. Vehicle electronics also include the audio user interface which includes an antenna for short range wireless communication a microphone one or more pushbuttons or other control inputs and one or more speakers . Other user interface components can be included in the vehicle or as a part of the audio user interface such as a visual display not shown . The audio user interface may be a substantially standalone set of components communicating only via antenna or may be hardwired or otherwise connected into other modules or portions of the vehicle s electronics system such as to telephony unit and or a vehicle bus. This may permit for example the vehicle to be programmed so as to reduce ambient noise during a speech session such as by for example reducing the climate control fan speed quieting the vehicle radio etc. As used herein the term audio user interface broadly includes any suitable installation of a microphone and speaker in the vehicle including both hardware and any software components which enables a vehicle user to communicate verbally with the vehicle or other devices in the vehicle such as mobile device . Microphone provides audio input that can be sent via the short range wireless connection using antenna . One or more pushbutton s allow manual user input into the audio user interface to initiate actions such as the start of a speech session in which the microphone and speaker are used to provide the user with hands free services in the vehicle such as to carry out wireless telephone calls or access data provide remote control or provide messaging and communication services. The pushbutton may be located in a convenient spot for the driver such as on the steering wheel hub or spokes. Speaker may be a single speaker dedicated for use with the audio user interface or may be integrated with other components or systems such as a radio system speaker.

In the illustrated embodiment telephony unit is an optional component that is not used in carrying out the operation of the speech user interface SUI but in other embodiments can be included and can be integrated in with the audio user interface as a single functional module. Telephony unit can be an OEM installed embedded or aftermarket device that is installed in the vehicle and that enables wireless voice and or data communication over wireless carrier system and via wireless networking. This enables the vehicle to communicate with call center other telematics enabled vehicles or some other entity or device. The telephony unit preferably uses radio transmissions to establish a communications channel a voice channel and or a data channel with wireless carrier system so that voice and or data transmissions can be sent and received over the channel. By providing both voice and data communication telephony unit enables the vehicle to offer a number of different services including those related to navigation telephony emergency assistance diagnostics infotainment etc. Data can be sent either via a data connection such as via packet data transmission over a data channel or via a voice channel using techniques known in the art. For combined services that involve both voice communication e.g. with a live advisor or voice response unit at the call center and data communication e.g. to provide GPS location data or vehicle diagnostic data to the call center the system can utilize a single call over a voice channel and switch as needed between voice and data transmission over the voice channel and this can be done using techniques known to those skilled in the art. For location services the telephony unit may have its own GPS circuitry or can utilize other available GPS devices such as one installed in the vehicle as a part of a vehicle navigation system or using one from the mobile device .

Wireless carrier system is preferably a cellular telephone system that includes a plurality of cell towers only one shown one or more mobile switching centers MSCs as well as any other networking components required to connect wireless carrier system with land network . Each cell tower includes sending and receiving antennas and a base station with the base stations from different cell towers being connected to the MSC either directly or via intermediary equipment such as a base station controller. Cellular system can implement any suitable communications technology including for example analog technologies such as AMPS or the newer digital technologies such as CDMA e.g. CDMA2000 or GSM GPRS. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art various cell tower base station MSC arrangements are possible and could be used with wireless system . For instance the base station and cell tower could be co located at the same site or they could be remotely located from one another each base station could be responsible for a single cell tower or a single base station could service various cell towers and various base stations could be coupled to a single MSC to name but a few of the possible arrangements.

Apart from using wireless carrier system a different wireless carrier system in the form of satellite communication can be used to provide uni directional or bi directional communication with the vehicle. This can be done using one or more communication satellites and an uplink transmitting station . Uni directional communication can be for example satellite radio services wherein programming content news music etc. is received by transmitting station packaged for upload and then sent to the satellite which broadcasts the programming to subscribers. Bi directional communication can be for example satellite telephony services using satellite to relay telephone communications between the vehicle and station . If used this satellite telephony can be utilized either in addition to or in lieu of wireless carrier system .

Land network may be a conventional land based telecommunications network that is connected to one or more landline telephones and connects wireless carrier system to such things as speech services cloud services and other computers or servers such as a personal computer located in a residence or other facility. For example land network may include a public switched telephone network PSTN such as that used to provide hardwired telephony packet switched data communications and the Internet infrastructure. One or more segments of land network could be implemented through the use of a standard wired network a fiber or other optical network a cable network power lines other wireless networks such as wireless local area networks WLANs or networks providing broadband wireless access BWA or any combination thereof. Furthermore the various speech and cloud services shown in need not be connected via land network but could include wireless telephony equipment so that it can communicate directly with a wireless network such as wireless carrier system .

Computer can be one of a number of computers accessible via a private or public network such as the Internet. Each such computer can be used for one or more purposes such as a web server accessible by the vehicle over wireless carrier via audio user interface mobile device and or via telephony unit . Other such accessible computers can be for example a service center computer where diagnostic information and other vehicle data can be uploaded from the vehicle via the telephony unit a client computer used by the vehicle owner or other telematics service subscriber for such purposes as accessing or receiving vehicle data or to setting up or configuring subscriber preferences or controlling vehicle functions or a third party repository to or from which vehicle data or other information is provided. A computer can also be used for providing Internet connectivity such as DNS services or as a network address server that uses DHCP or other suitable protocol to assign an IP address to the vehicle and or to the mobile device . When used as a client computer by the vehicle owner such as within a residence wireless connectivity between the mobile device and computer may be provided using any suitable short range wireless communication technology such as Bluetooth or any of the 802.11 protocols.

Shown in as one of the cloud services is a call center which can be used to provide the vehicle operator and or the vehicle electronics with a number of different vehicle related services and system back end functions. These include such things as roadside or emergency assistance diagnostic and maintenance support entertainment services information and navigation assistance etc. as is known in the art. These call center services can be provided to supplement those accessible to the vehicle operator via the speech user interface or as a backup in case the operator is having difficulty with the speech user interface.

Although shown outside the vehicle in solely for diagrammatic illustration the typical use of the mobile device as a part of the speech user interface will involve circumstances in which the mobile device in located in the vehicle such as when the driver is operating the vehicle on the roadway. Some of the basic functional hardware and software components of mobile device are depicted in . According to the embodiment shown mobile device is a smartphone that utilizes cellular communication according to GSM and or CDMA standards and thus includes a standard cellular chipset and antenna for voice and data communications antenna and and their associated circuitry for Bluetooth and WiFi wireless connections respectively an electronic processing device one or more digital memory devices and a GPS receiver .

Processor can be any type of device capable of processing electronic instructions including microprocessors microcontrollers host processors controllers vehicle communication processors and application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Processor executes various types of digitally stored instructions such as software or firmware programs stored in memory . This includes the device OS the mobile vehicle platform and any installed apps all of which can be stored in memory .

GPS module receives radio signals from a constellation of GPS satellites. From these signals the module can determine mobile device position that is used for providing navigation and other position related services. Navigation information can be presented on the device s display or can be presented verbally via the device s own speaker not shown or via the audio user interface such as may be done for supplying turn by turn navigation.

In general the speech user interface may be realized in part using the mobile voice platform that runs on the device OS and interfaces with installed apps cloud services or both to carry out services for the user based on their speech input. Further details of the mobile voice platform and its interaction with the other components of mobile device are shown in .

As indicated above and in SPK runs on top of the operating system and handles the overall control and routing of messaging used for the mobile voice platform. SPK controls the basic process flow of the speech session according to the methodology discussed above in connection with and shown in . During a speech session in which an input e.g. request or command is received from a user SPK handles speech processing of the speech recognition results returned by the cloud based automated speech recognition ASR service. This is done using a post ASR service identifying grammar specifically designed with a vocabulary intended to identify a desired service or session context from the speech recognition results. Built into this functionality is error handling and building of natural language responses for returning a speech response to the user. A session context e.g. navigation v. messaging v dining reservations may also be determined at SPK using this first grammar and the session context can be used to further restrict the choice of services selected by SPK or to aid in the post ASR processing of the speech recognition result. Each speech session has at least one context that is at least one subject matter domain to which the user s speech input relates. The different cloud services shown in indicate some of the various session contexts that can be identified and distinguished. For any speech session there may be a primary session context and one or more ancillary service contexts. For example making dining reservations might invoke a dining session context in which the primary message contents being sought for include an identification of restaurant number of people in the party reservation time etc. But it may also invoke a navigation context wherein directions to the restaurant are desired. Or a message context in which notification of the reservation is shared with others. SPK not only determines a primary session context but one or more ancillary ones if appropriate and for each identifies an appropriate cloud or installed service.

The speech services identified in can be implemented in various ways and in some embodiments may be uniquely designed or contain specific grammars or models designed to support the speech user interface . In other embodiments a generalized cloud ASR service is used that is one in which although it may permit parameter specifications for particular language models and other general configurations of the speech recognition engine does not use a grammar tailored to the session contexts expected for the user speech session. The android speech functionality available from Google is one example of a generalized cloud ASR service.

Once SPK has identified or otherwise determined a desired service it uses the App Init to start the selected service via a service interface associated with that service. As indicated in some of the service interfaces interact only with cloud services or only with cloud services and the device user interface e.g. display whereas others interface with the installed apps e.g. app that itself may access cloud services using the operating system s interface to the cloud services. This permits each service interface to carry out the selected service as desired so that for example if a particular service desires to use the display of the mobile device the service interface can define the particular user interface to be displayed.

Turning now to further detail of the service interfaces is shown. Each service interface includes a SPK message structure interface that follows the standardized I O protocol used by SPK for messaging to the service interfaces. This provides a common framework for interacting with the mobile voice platform so that new services can be accessed by creating a service interface that meets the SPK I O specification while identifying to SPK the commands and parameters needed to call and receive results from the service. The service interface includes command processing that uses a service specific grammar to construct a service request and then send that service request to the cloud service or installed app via the OS . The service request will typically include any needed command from the service interface plus at least a part of the recognized speech results e.g. a particular restaurant name or associated data e.g. GPS coordinates . The service specific grammar is one that includes vocabulary used for initiating and commanding the service and will typically be different for each different computer based service.

The App Init module of SPK can be implemented with the same structure as the service interfaces except that it is a special purpose interface that is used by SPK to contact a selected service interface to initiate the service and pass the needed commands and parameters used by the service.

Operation of the service interfaces can be by way of an app execution engine that provides a runtime execution environment for the service interfaces. An SDK software developer kit defined protocol provides a set of standard or common input output tags or other identification of the data and commands passed between SPK and the service interfaces . This can be done for example using VXML wherein SPK tags the individual portions of the received speech recognition results using SDK protocol and in some embodiments can convert them to a smaller vocabulary that is at least partially shared among the service interfaces. For example a restaurant in the area as speech input may be broken down into restaurant being tagged as the desired service or session context and in the area being converted as are such other general location terms around here near me etc. into a single term nearby which is supported by all of the service interfaces for which location is used to carry out the service.

One of the service interfaces may be a speech session voice flow SSVF that may perform the same or similar functionality of App Init of . Thus when a speech session is begun e.g. by an input to the mobile device directly by the user or via a button press in the vehicle that is used to signal the mobile device via its short range wireless communication circuitry SPK can initially invoke the SSVF script which defines the voice flow for the speech session communication with the user. For example it can specify that the user is prompted with the statement Please say a command and then can define the actions taken based on the response all the way up until a desired service is identified and the associated service interface invoked.

The various program modules shown in the figures can be stored in one or more non transient memories e.g. flash memory on the mobile device as computer instructions that upon execution by the processor carries out the functions described above. In other embodiments at least some of the program modules may be stored remotely such as on a remote server or other computer and accessed as necessary. For example as shown in the app interface suite AIS can be stored at a remote location such as the call center or at some other remote facility or computer. Then when SPK needs any of the service interfaces such as SSVF at the start of a speech session it can remotely access the service interface via the cellular carrier system download it and run it locally at the mobile device using the app execution engine . Similarly once a desired service is identified the associated service interface can be remotely accessed downloaded to the mobile device and again run to implement the desired service including generating the needed service request used to interface with a particular remote computer based service e.g. via the service s API . An advantage of this remote storage of the service interfaces is that they can be maintained and updated as desired whereas if they are stored normally on the mobile device they will need to be periodically updated which for some mobile device platforms may require obtaining user consent each time. With remote storage if there is a change to be made to the service interface e.g. because the associated service has been enhanced then only the single version at the call center or other remote location needs to be updated and users will receive the latest version each time they provide a speech command or request that utilizes the service. This also allows the voice interaction defined by the service interface to be updated as desired so that for example if it is desirable to change SSVF from saying Please say a command to What can I help you with today this can be done back at the call center again without users each needing to have the software on their mobile device updated.

It is to be understood that the foregoing is a description of one or more embodiments of the invention. The invention is not limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed herein but rather is defined solely by the claims below. Furthermore the statements contained in the foregoing description relate to particular embodiments and are not to be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or on the definition of terms used in the claims except where a term or phrase is expressly defined above. Various other embodiments and various changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiment s will become apparent to those skilled in the art. All such other embodiments changes and modifications are intended to come within the scope of the appended claims.

As used in this specification and claims the terms e.g. for example for instance such as and like and the verbs comprising having including and their other verb forms when used in conjunction with a listing of one or more components or other items are each to be construed as open ended meaning that the listing is not to be considered as excluding other additional components or items. Other terms are to be construed using their broadest reasonable meaning unless they are used in a context that requires a different interpretation.

