---

title: Cellular telephone protocol adaptive printing
abstract: A cellular telephone protocol adaptive printing system includes a mobile device protocol logic configured to transmit a print job from a cellular telephone to an image forming device, pursuant to a print data transmission protocol; and a content transforming logic configured to process a print item into the print job pursuant to the print data transmission protocol supported by the mobile device protocol logic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08860992&OS=08860992&RS=08860992
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08860992
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
This application is a Divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 463 383 filed on Jun. 16 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 223 355 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The systems methods storage media and so on described herein relate generally to cellular telephones and more particularly to cellular telephone protocol adaptive printing.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples and or forms of components that fall within the scope of a term and that may be used for implementation. The examples are not intended to be limiting. Both singular and plural forms of terms may be within the definitions.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a storage medium that participates in directly or indirectly providing instructions and or data. A computer readable medium may take forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Volatile media may include dynamic memory and the like. Common forms of a computer readable medium include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape other magnetic medium a CD ROM other optical medium other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a ROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM or other memory chip or card a memory stick and other media from which a computer a processor or other electronic device can read.

 Logic as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software and or combinations of each to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another component. For example based on a desired application or needs logic may include a software controlled microprocessor discrete logic like an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions or the like. Logic may also be fully embodied as software. Where multiple logical logics are described it may be possible to incorporate the multiple logical logics into one physical logic. Similarly where a single logical logic is described it may be possible to distribute that single logical logic between multiple physical logics.

 Signal as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more electrical or optical signals analog or digital one or more computer or processor instructions messages a bit or bit stream or other means that can be received transmitted and or detected.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more computer or processor instructions that can be read interpreted compiled and or executed and that cause a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. The instructions may be embodied in various forms like routines algorithms modules methods threads and or programs including separate applications or code from dynamically linked libraries. Software may also be implemented in a variety of executable and or loadable forms including but not limited to a stand alone program a function call local and or remote a servelet an applet instructions stored in a memory part of an operating system or other types of executable instructions. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the form of software may be dependent on for example requirements of a desired application the environment in which it runs and or the desires of a designer programmer or the like. It will also be appreciated that computer readable and or executable instructions can be located in one logic and or distributed between two or more communicating co operating and or parallel processing logics and thus can be loaded and or executed in serial parallel massively parallel and other manners.

 User as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more persons software computers logics or other devices or combinations of these.

 Data store as used herein refers to a physical and or logical entity that can store data. A data store may be for example a database a table a file a list a queue a heap a memory a register and so on. A data store may reside in one logical and or physical entity and or may be distributed between two or more logical and or physical entities.

An operable connection or a connection by which entities are operably connected is one in which signals physical communication flow and or logical communication flow may be sent and or received. Typically an operable connection includes a physical interface an electrical interface and or a data interface but it is to be noted that an operable connection may include differing combinations of these or other types of connections sufficient to allow operable control.

A print data transmission protocol as used herein refers to a transmission protocol that a cellular telephone may use to transmit a print job to an image forming device e.g. a printer . An example protocol is Bluetooth.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a sequence of operations that produce a result. The operations may include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily the physical quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a logic and the like.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout the description terms like processing computing calculating determining displaying or the like refer to actions and processes of a computer system logic processor or similar electronic device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities.

Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to the flow diagrams of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Furthermore additional and or alternative methodologies can employ additional not illustrated blocks.

In one example methodologies are implemented as processor executable instructions and or operations stored on a computer readable medium including but not limited to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a compact disc CD a digital versatile disk DVD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a disk a carrier wave and a memory stick.

In the flow diagrams blocks denote processing blocks that may be implemented for example in software. Additionally and or alternatively the processing blocks may represent functions and or actions performed by functionally equivalent circuits like a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and the like.

A flow diagram does not depict syntax for any particular programming language methodology or style e.g. procedural object oriented . Rather a flow diagram illustrates functional information one skilled in the art may employ to fabricate circuits generate software or use a combination of hardware and software to perform the illustrated processing. It will be appreciated that in some examples program elements like temporary variables routine loops and so on are not shown. It will be further appreciated that electronic and software applications may involve dynamic and flexible processes so that the illustrated blocks can be performed in other sequences that are different from those shown and or that blocks may be combined or separated into multiple components. It will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented using various programming approaches like machine language procedural object oriented and or artificial intelligence techniques.

By way of illustration MMS concerns a store and forward method for transmitting related items like graphics video clips sound files short text messages and the like via wireless networks. Since an MMS message may contain different combinations of these items a user may want to print various combinations of these items. However some items e.g. sound files may not be printable other items e.g. graphics interchange format GIF files may not be printable on an image forming device with which a cellular telephone communicates via a certain print data transmission protocol while other items e.g. text JPEG joint photographic experts group format files may be printable. Thus the cellular telephone protocol adaptive print method includes at identifying a print data transmission protocol by which a print job can be transmitted from a cellular telephone to an image forming device via a wireless communication link. Identifying the print data transmission protocol by which a print job can be transmitted to an image forming device facilitates determining which if any elements of a message like an MMS message may be printed by an image forming device that implements for example a receiver end of the print data transmission protocol.

MMS may be implemented over a wireless application protocol WAP . WAP defines a secure specification that facilitates users accessing substantially instantaneously via their cellular telephones MMS messages. The cellular telephones can include but are not limited to mobile phones pagers two way radios smart phones communication systems and the like. WAP implementations can support wireless network technologies like cellular digital packet data CDPD networking code division multiple access CDMA processing global system for mobile communication GSM networking time division multiple access TDMA and so on. WAP may be supported by operating systems including those engineered for handheld devices. Thus the environment in which the cellular telephone operates may be varied with differing print capabilities depending on the protocol s implemented between various cellular telephones and various image forming devices. Furthermore the types of messages received and the mix of print item elements encountered in those various messages may be varied. Thus identifying the print data transmission protocol at facilitates broadening and or enriching the print experience of a user by making it more responsive to the varied environment and varied messages that can be encountered by the cellular telephone user.

At identifying a print data transmission protocol may involve actions including but not limited to examining a logic on a cellular telephone to identify a supported cellular telephone transmission protocol examining an image forming device with which the cellular telephone can communicate to determine an available image forming device that can print the print job identifying an available wireless communication link between the cellular telephone and the image forming device with which the cellular telephone can communicate and determining a cellular telephone transmission protocol s that can be employed to transmit a print job over the available wireless communication link s to the image forming device s with which the cellular telephone can communicate.

By way of illustration in an MMS message the presentation of the message may be coded into a message presentation file so that images sounds text and so on are displayed in a pre determined order as one singular message. For printing the presentation may need to be altered since certain types of content may not be printable for one or more reasons. For example a wireless request to print an MMS message including a sound file or a certain graphic file may not be receivable or printable by a certain image forming device using the print data transmission protocol. Thus broadening and or enriching the print experience is facilitated by method which may include at identifying from printable elements in a print item print job candidate elements that can be processed into a printer ready format according to the print data transmission protocol. In other words the capabilities of the print data transmission protocol can be used to determine which printable elements are printable and or determine which printable elements are not printable so that time and resources can be optimized by not trying to print unprintable content.

For example an MMS message may include a text portion two graphics portions a GIF portion a JPEG portion and an audio file. At the method may identify that the audio file is not printable. The method may also identify by referring to the print data transmission protocol identified at that the JPEG graphic portion is printable on the image forming device with which the wireless mobile communication device will communicate via the print data transmission protocol while the GIF portion is not. The method may also identify that the text portion is printable. Thus the various printable elements of a print item can be identified as print job candidate elements by the method and a user and or logic can determine which if any of the print job candidate elements are to be processed into a print job element for transmission to an image forming device. While the print job candidate elements to process can be selected through a user interface or programmatically the print job candidate elements that are processed into print job elements may also be filtered out of the set of printable elements. For example a pre determined configurable filter that identifies desired printable elements based on attributes like type size time stamp owner originator and so on may be employed to select the print job candidate elements that are to be processed.

At after identifying the printable elements of the print item as print job candidate elements e.g. the text and JPEG sections of an MMS message the method may include selectively processing a print job candidate element into a print job element formatted according to the print data transmission protocol. The method also may include at processing the one or more print job elements into a print job. In one example method may also include transmitting the print job to the image forming device. In another example the print data transmission protocol is based on a Bluetooth wireless network a Bluetooth basic print profile BPP and a markup language like XHTML extensible hypertext markup language .

Turning now to an example implementation of block from is illustrated. In one example at print job candidate elements to process are identified. Then at printer ready instructions are prepared. For example in the MMS message described above the printable text portion and the printable JPEG portion may be wrapped with printer ready instructions and or reformatted and then mixed with printer ready instructions.

It is to be appreciated that a cellular telephone print item may be identified in different manners. Thus in one example a cellular telephone adaptive protocol print method includes presenting via a user interface one or more candidate cellular telephone print items to be processed and receiving via the user interface an indication that identifies one or more cellular telephone print items to process. By way of illustration a cellular telephone user may have received a set of MMS messages a set of SMS messages and a set of emails. If the cellular telephone is camera enabled the user may also have acquired a set of images still and or video. Furthermore the cellular telephone may have come pre configured with a set of items e.g. images text audio . Thus the user may have a varied set of items some of which may be printable in whole or in part. Thus a cellular telephone protocol adaptive printing method can examine the varied set of items and display to the user via the user interface which items are printable and in one example which of the elements in a print item are printable. For example an MMS message may be presented as being printable with the printable portions and non printable portions of the MMS message identified by for example visual distinctions.

If the determination at is No then at the print job candidate elements are compared to a pre configured set of elements that can include but is not limited to a file extension a candidate element file content a candidate element file type a candidate element file format a candidate element object type a candidate element message type a candidate element encoding a candidate element content and a candidate element format to a set of one or more types extensions contents and formats supported by the print data transmission protocol. Based on the comparison at a print job candidate element s is chosen to be processed at . Thus in one example the portion includes determining which print job candidate elements are to be processed based at least in part on a content type supported by the print data transmission protocol. In another example the portion includes comparing one or more print job candidate elements to a preconfigured set of element types chosen to be printed and based on the comparison selecting one or more print job candidate elements to process. Thus print job candidate elements to process into print job elements can be filtered out of the set of available print job candidate elements. For example a pre determined configurable filter that identifies desired printable elements based on attributes like type size time stamp owner originator and so on may be employed to select the printable elements that are to be processed.

At a determination is made concerning whether the decision about which content arranger if any will be employed in processing the print job elements into a print job will involve the user via a user interface. If the determination at is Yes then the portion may include at presenting to a user via a user interface candidate arrangers and at receiving via the user interface an indication that identifies the arranger into which the print job element s is to be arranged. Thus at an arranger can be selected based on the indication received at from the user via the user interface.

If the determination at is No then the portion may include at comparing the print job elements to a set of stored print job element patterns and at selecting the arranger based on the comparing of . By way of illustration the set of stored print job elements may include various content layouts designed for various amounts and or mixes of content in a print job. For example a first print job that has several small images each captioned with a short text message may lead to selecting an arranger that facilitates viewing multiple images and the associated text on a single page. A second print job that has one large image and a large amount of text to flow around the image may lead to selecting an arranger that facilitates centering the image on a printed page and having the text flow around the image in a pleasing way. A third print job that has several large images that are time stamped may lead to selecting an arranger that facilitates displaying each large image on a separate page with its associated text time stamp. The third print job may benefit from for example a first page treatment a last page treatment and a header footer being attached. Thus in one example the arranger facilitates producing these effects. Additionally other arrangers may facilitate implementing print functionalities including but not limited to positioning text and or images centering text and or images rotating text and or images scaling text and or images and combining multiple images and or texts on a printed page. Furthermore other arrangers may facilitate implementing print functionality to account for multiple page prints. For example multiple page printing may involve automatically handling white space arranging content into rows and or columns numbering pages generating intelligent page breaks that enhance readability and the like. Once again arranger selection can enhance the print experience when the arranger is chosen in light of the print data transmission protocol. Thus in one example an XHTML template may be selected based on its functionality when transmitted over a Bluetooth wireless network using Bluetooth BPP. Thus printable elements from an MMS message may be processed into a print job that is arranged according to the layout in an XHTML template and then the template is transmitted to an image forming device via a Bluetooth wireless network using Bluetooth BPP.

Once a complete message is retrieved the method may also include at identifying a communication link by which a cellular telephone can communicate with an image forming device and at identifying a protocol by which print items can be transmitted. For example the communication link may be a wireless link supported by WAP and the print data transmission protocol may be based on a Bluetooth wireless network and Bluetooth BPP.

The method may also include at identifying printable elements in the complete retrieved cellular telephone print item and at selectively processing chosen printable elements into print job elements. The method may then include at selecting an arranger to guide the layout of the print job elements and arranging the print job elements into a print job. In one example the arranger is an XHTML template and the print job elements are merged into the XHTML document along with printer ready instructions concerning the print job elements. At the print job is transmitted via the wireless communication link using the print data transmission protocol to an image forming device. It is to be appreciated that processor executable instructions for portions and or all of method may be stored on a computer readable medium.

In one example a computer readable medium may store processor executable instructions operable to perform a method that includes retrieving a cellular telephone print item from an MMS server and selectively retrieving additional data from the MMS server to make a complete cellular telephone print item that includes printable elements. The method may also include identifying a wireless communication link by which a print job can be transmitted from a camera enabled mobile phone to a printer via a Bluetooth wireless network and Bluetooth BPP and filtering out of the printable elements print job elements to process into a printer ready format where the identifying depends at least in part on content types supported by a Bluetooth wireless network and Bluetooth BPP. The method may also include processing the print job elements into a print job where the processing includes generating one or more printer ready instructions and arranging the print job elements and the printer ready instructions in an XHTML template. The method may also include transmitting the XHTML template to the printer using the wireless communication link a Bluetooth wireless network and Bluetooth BPP.

The image forming device may be for example a printer. The cellular telephone may be for example a camera enabled mobile phone. The cellular telephone may have available a print item to be processed by the print system. The print item may be associated with a message received from a server. Servers with which the message may be associated include but are not limited to an MMS server an SMS server an image server a text server an audio server and so on. Thus the print item may include various parts . Some of the parts may be printable e.g. text JPEG file on the image forming device when communicated via a print data transmission protocol. In one example the print item may be an MMS message.

The cellular telephone protocol adaptive print system may include a content transforming logic configured to process the print item into a print job pursuant to a print data transmission protocol supported by a mobile device protocol logic . The protocol logic may be configured for example to transmit a print job from a cellular telephone to an image forming device pursuant to a print data transmission protocol. Thus the protocol logic can be said to support a print data transmission protocol. In one example the print data transmission protocol is based on a Bluetooth wireless network and Bluetooth BPP.

In one example the cellular telephone protocol adaptive print system may be incorporated in a wireless communication device . The cellular telephone may be for example a camera enabled mobile phone.

The image forming device may include a receiving protocol logic configured to receive a print job processed by the mobile device protocol logic . Additionally the image forming device may include a rendering logic configured to process the print job received by the receiving protocol logic into a printer usable format. The rendering logic may be configured for example to render the print job received by the receiving protocol logic into a bitmap.

Printer ready formats can include forms like printer ready bits printer ready instructions printer independent data and instructions and so on. In one example the system provides the print job in the form of printer ready bits e.g. a rendered image a bitmap while in another example the system provides the print job in the form of printer ready instructions e.g. PostScript instructions XHTML instructions . Printer ready bits may include for example data rendered into a format acceptable to a printer where the printer can print the data without further rendering. Printer ready instructions may include for example data prepared and packaged into a file that is in a format acceptable to a printer where the printer can print the data by processing the instructions included with the data. Thus printer ready bits and printer ready instructions refer to an item that has a data representation acceptable to and or usable by a printer. In another example the system provides the print job in a printer independent yet still printer ready format. For example data like vCard and or vCal data may be provided. In yet another example the system provides the print job in a format suitable for display on a device like a computer monitor or television screen rather than on a printer. Thus it is to be appreciated that the print job is not limited to printer ready data destined for a printer and that the image forming device may take various forms e.g. printer display .

The user interface logic thus facilitates configuring and or controlling the print system on the cellular telephone . By way of illustration although the cellular telephone may receive a variety of print items a user may only be interested in printing certain print items. Thus the user interface logic may be employed to configure the content transforming logic to consider a set of print items for printing while rejecting others. Similarly a print item may have a variety of printable and non printable elements . Thus the user interface logic can be employed to configure the content transforming logic to consider some elements of a print item as printable while considering other elements not to be printable. Furthermore a print job may be able to be laid out according to a variety of arrangements. Thus the user interface logic can be employed to design modify maintain select and so on different possible templates arrangements and so on for a print job . The user interface logic can also be configured to facilitate managing parameters associated with filtering. For example print items to process can be filtered out of a set of available print items based on their relationship to one or more pre determined configurable filtering parameters. So too can print item elements to be processed by filtered from available print item elements based on their relationship to one or more pre determined configurable filtering parameters. Likewise content arrangers to suggest to a user can be filtered out of the entire set of available content arrangers based on conformity with one or more pre determined configurable parameters.

In one example the server logic is configured to provide the print item to the content transforming logic by providing a print item identifier and a print item sub element s . The print item sub elements may have of one or more print item sub element types. For example a print item sub element may be text an image in a first format e.g. JPEG an image in a second format e.g. GIF an audio element and so on. When the server logic provides a print item identifier e.g. a print item header to the content transforming logic the content transforming logic may determine to selectively acquire a sub element. For example the content transforming logic may determine to acquire the text element and the JPEG element but to not acquire the GIF element and the audio element. Thus the server logic can be configured to communicate with a server to selectively retrieve a print item and or a print item element. The server may be for example an MMS server an SMS server a game server a text server an image server a message server a calendar server a contact server and the like.

The system includes a content transforming logic that may be configured to selectively process a print item sub element into a portion of a print job based at least in part on whether the mobile device protocol logic supports transmitting a print item sub element type. For example one implementation of Bluetooth BPP may support preparing a JPEG file for transmission over a Bluetooth based wireless network while another implementation of Bluetooth BPP may not support preparing a GIF file for transmission over a Bluetooth based wireless network.

The system can include data store that stores a configurable print item sub element holder. Thus in one example the content transforming logic may be configured to place a processed print item sub element in a configurable print item sub element holder. The configurable print item sub element holder may be for example an XHTML template an XHTML Print template and the like. But there may be a variety of sub element holders into which a print item sub element may be placed. Thus in one example the protocol logic is configured to select a print item sub element holder into which the content transforming logic will process a print item sub element based at least in part on attributes including but not limited to the number of print item sub elements to be processed the type of print item sub elements to be processed the variety of types of print item sub elements to be processed and a print data transmission protocol supported by the protocol logic .

By way of illustration the protocol logic may determine that there is one print item sub element to place in print job . This single print item sub element may be a graphics file that includes a time stamp and a caption. Furthermore the protocol logic may determine that a cover sheet is appropriate for this type of graphic e.g. secure information . Thus the protocol logic may select a sub element holder from data store based on the protocol that will be employed to transmit the print job to an image forming device and the number and type of elements e.g. single time stamped captioned image of secure data in the print item. By way of further illustration the protocol logic may determine that there are four hundred print item sub elements to place in print job . For example a user may desire to print out their entire contacts file. Thus the protocol logic may select a modular sub element holder from data store that facilitates arranging multiple images and text on a single page and that facilitates processing multiple instances of the page. Furthermore the protocol logic may select a sub element holder or set of sub element holders that facilitate first and last page treatments headers and footers and the like.

It is to be appreciated that a configurable print item sub element holder may support print functions including but not limited to positioning centering rotating and scaling a print item sub element. Similarly it is to be appreciated that a configurable print item sub element holder may support print functions including but not limited to a first page treatment functionality a last page treatment functionality a header functionality a footer functionality a page numbering functionality a multiple image per page functionality a functionality for combining a text print item sub element or one or more image print item sub elements and a time stamping functionality for a print job.

The cellular telephone may have applications or logics that have native data types. For example a contact application may have a native data type for storing contacts. Similarly a calendar application may have a native data type for storing calendar information. While a contact and a calendar application are described it is to be appreciated that a cellular telephone and or wireless devices for which it may act as a print server may have other applications with other native data types. Thus in one example the content transforming logic is configured to process a print item that includes a variable of a data type that is native to a cellular telephone . In another example the content transforming logic is configured to process data types that are native to the cellular telephone and that are dynamically extensible.

As described above various forms of filtering may be employed in a cellular telephone protocol adaptive print system. Thus cellular telephone may include a filtering logic configured to perform one or more of the filtering operations described above.

The image forming device may be configured to respond to queries from cellular telephones relating to print jobs. Therefore the image forming device may include a print service request logic that when the image forming device is queried can transmit information about the object stored in memory and or the processing thereof in response to the print service query. The print service request logic may also periodically or under image forming device control transmit information about the object stored in memory and or the processing thereof. The print service request logic may be implemented for example as a logic. The print service request logic may also be configured to initiate the transmission of the data to a cellular telephone without receiving a query status request or print service request. For example one or more elements of the information about a print job can be automatically transmitted based on predetermined triggering events like a time period elapsing a processing event occurring and or other event occurring. In this manner the image forming device can provide automatic status updates to cellular telephones that have a print job being processed. It will also be appreciated that the print service request logic can also be configured to monitor and provide state information and the like for print data associated with multiple cellular telephones.

Additionally the image forming device may include rendering logic configured to generate a printer ready image from a received non printer ready object received for example in an imaging request. Rendering varies based on the format of the data involved and the type of imaging device. In general the rendering logic converts a high level object based description e.g. the imaging request into a graphical image for a display or printing e.g. the print ready image . For example one form is ray tracing that takes a mathematical model of a three dimensional object or scene and converts it into a bitmap image. Another example is the process of converting HTML into an image for display printing. In another example the image forming device may not have a rendering logic . In this case a print job would be transmitted to the image forming device in a print ready format.

The image forming device may also include an image forming mechanism configured to generate an image onto print media from the print ready image. The image forming mechanism may vary based on the type of imaging device and may include a laser imaging mechanism other toner based imaging mechanisms an ink jet mechanism digital imaging mechanism or other imaging reproduction engine. A processor may be included that is implemented with logic to control the operation of the image forming device . In one example the processor includes logic that is capable of executing Java instructions. Other components of the image forming device are not described herein but may include media handling and storage mechanisms sensors controllers and other components involved in the imaging process.

The data field may include various information intended to be communicated between the source and destination. Example fields and are provided. By way of illustration data associated with a cellular telephone protocol adaptive print system may be stored in field . This data may supply information about the set of wireless network protocols and specifications hardware configurations software configurations wireless network file formats printer ready instruction file formats printer ready instruction languages and so on that form a print data transmission protocol that facilitate transmitting a print job between a cellular telephone and an image forming device. By way of illustration the print protocol information stored in field may identify a Bluetooth standard associated with the protocol an XHTML Print version associated with the protocol a Bluetooth BPP standard associated with the protocol and so on. Field may store for example print item information. The print item information may be for example a print item identifier a print item and so on.

Other components of the cellular telephone may include a memory and or storage that can include a computer readable medium. The storage may also include a port that accepts and reads data stored on a removable memory card or other removable computer readable medium. An interface can include a display screen one or more buttons a pointing device or other types of devices that can communicate data to a user and receive input from a user. To perform wireless communication a wireless transceiver logic is provided. Depending on the wireless communication protocol desired the transceiver logic can be configured according to different specifications.

In one example the wireless protocol is Bluetooth based and the transceiver would include a Bluetooth radio and antenna. Other protocols include IEEE 802.11 and other available wireless protocols. In one example the wireless transceiver logic includes a radio frequency transceiver configured to transmit and receive radio frequency signals. Infrared communication can also be employed. The transceiver logic may be for example a microchip in the cellular telephone or configured on a removable device like a PCMCIA card PC card that can be connected and disconnected to the cellular telephone via a connection port or slot. In one example the cellular telephone includes a digital camera . In this example the cellular telephone may be referred to as a camera enabled phone.

The systems methods objects and so on described herein may be stored for example on a computer readable medium. An example computer readable medium can store for example processor executable instructions for a cellular telephone protocol adaptive printing method that includes identifying a cellular telephone print item to print where the cellular telephone print item includes printable elements identifying a print data transmission protocol by which a print job can be transmitted from a cellular telephone to an image forming device via a wireless communication link identifying from printable elements print job candidate elements that can be processed into a printer ready format according to the print data transmission protocol selectively processing print job candidate elements into print job elements formatted according to the print data transmission protocol and processing print job elements into a print job. While the above method is described being stored on a computer readable medium it is to be appreciated that other methods described herein can also be stored on a computer readable medium.

While the systems methods and so on have been illustrated by describing examples and while the examples have been described in considerable detail it is not the intention of the applicants to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the systems methods and so on employed in mobile communication device printing. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details the representative apparatus and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of the applicants general inventive concept. Thus this application is intended to embrace alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. Furthermore the preceding description is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

To the extent that the term includes is employed in the detailed description or the claims it is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as that term is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore to the extent that the term or is employed in the claims e.g. A or B it is intended to mean A or B or both . When the applicants intend to indicate only A or B but not both then the term only A or B but not both will be employed. Thus use of the term or herein is the inclusive and not the exclusive use. See Bryan A. Garner A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage 624 2d. Ed. 1995 .

