---

title: Hot within my communities
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to identifying network resources or other topics that are of interest to members of multiple online communities to which a user belongs. Online communities include blogs, websites, games, e-commerce systems, messaging systems, wikis, etc. For each online community, click activity or other client behaviors are tracked and analyzed to determine statistical metrics about community activity, such as which articles, links, services, or other network resources are popular in the online community. At least some of the tracking or analysis can be performed by clients that access the online communities, by a server of each online community, and/or by a central tracking system. The results for each community may be further analyzed relative to each other. The results are provided for all communities with which a given user is associated. For example, a list of the most popular links in the user's selected online communities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178951&OS=09178951&RS=09178951
owner: YAHOO! INC.
number: 09178951
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120913
---
The present application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 752 104 filed May 22 2007 entitled Hot Within My Communities the benefit of the earlier filing date of which is hereby claimed under 35 U.S.C. 120 and 37 C.F.R. 1.78 and which is further incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to network analytics tools and more particularly but not exclusively to determining statistical data on network resource visits page views outbound clicks and other user activity associated with online communities.

Tremendous changes have been occurring in the Internet that influence our everyday lives. For example online social networks and other online communities have become the new meeting grounds. They have been called the new power lunch tables and new golf courses for business life in the U.S. Moreover many people are using such online social networks and other online communities to reconnect themselves to their friends their neighborhood their community and the world.

The development of such online social networks and other online communities touch countless aspects of our everyday lives providing instant access to people of similar mindsets and enabling us to form partnerships with more people in more ways than ever before. For example an increasing number of people are creating and or visiting network blogs or web logs . Briefly a blog is a website where a user may provide commentaries news graphics videos or the like in a journal style. Such entries may be on virtually any subject including food politics movies movie stars videos music gambling shopping politics or even personal online diaries. Blog readers can usually post messages related to one or more entries by blog author. Other online communities include online game systems e commerce systems wikis messaging systems or other systems that enable groups of users to interact with each other about a particular website blog article product service widget topic image audio content or the like.

Some online communities give a general idea of which web pages news stories web searches or other activity on a particular community is most popular among visitors that particular community. For example some news websites list the most popular news stories carried on a particular news website. However a member of multiple online communities generally does not know what is most popular in another community without visiting that online community. If the member participates in a number of communities the member generally must visit all of the desired communities to obtain the information for each one. However that information may change quickly at the various communities. There is generally no way for a member of one community to monitor actions occurring in other online communities to which the member belongs. It is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention is directed.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the present invention may be embodied as methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may. Furthermore the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment although it may. Thus as described below various embodiments of the invention may be readily combined without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

In addition as used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. In addition throughout the specification the meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. 

Briefly stated the present invention is directed towards determining data on network community activities and providing the data to users of the network communities. In one embodiment a tracker is provided that tracks visits outbound link click activity and or other actions of users of online network communities. For example when a click is detected within a webpage or other online community a determination is made whether the click is associated with a link such as a Universal Resource Locator URL link Uniform Resource Identifier URI link or the like. As used herein the term URI includes URLs Uniform Resource Names URNs and virtually any other addressing technology for identifying a resource on a network. If the click is associated with a URI information may collected related to the click including the URI a link text a network address associated with a source of the click an online community to which the source of the click belongs or was accessing at the time of the click a timestamp of when the click is detected and the like. Statistics may then be collected over time including what URIs websites or other actions are taken by users of online communities to which a given member belongs. Such statistics may be displayable for a variety of data types including by frequency volume repeated action or the like. In addition the statistics may be displayed in a variety of formats including table format list format map format or the like.

In one embodiment the tracker may be a JavaScript that may be employed by a webpage domain site or other online community seeking to track visitor activity. However in another embodiment the tracker may also operate as a script application applet or the like. In one embodiment the tracker may reside within a visitor s client device. In one embodiment the tracker may be implemented within a tool bar of a browser on a client device for example.

One embodiment of client devices is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Generally client devices may include virtually any computing device capable of connecting to another computing device to send and receive information including web requests for information from a server providing content or the like. The set of such devices may include devices that typically connect using a wired communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs and the like. The set of such devices may also include devices that typically connect using a wireless communications medium such as cell phones smart phones radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices or virtually any network device. Similarly client devices may be any device that is capable of connecting using a wired or wireless communication medium such as a PDA POCKET PC wearable computer and any other device that is equipped to communicate over a wired and or wireless communication medium. Client devices may reside in any of a variety of geographic regions within the world. At least one of client devices may be configured to relocate its geographic region.

Client devices may also include a client application that may be configured to provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name and the like. Client devices may identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN or a network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other network address identifier. In one embodiment client devices may be configured to provide such network address identifier in a message or the like sent over network to another computing device.

Client devices may further include a client application that is configured to manage various actions. For example client devices may include a web browser application that is configured to enable an end user to interact with other devices and or applications over network . For example client devices may enable use of the web browser to access online communities media content web pages online services or the like from another computing device such as community content servers or the like. In one embodiment client devices may receive a script applet application or the like that may be configured to operate in conjunction with the web browser application. For example in one embodiment client devices may be configured to download and or install a plug in application script applet or the like into the web browser. In one embodiment the plug in may operate as a toolbar component or the like to the web browser. In any event in one embodiment the application script applet or the like may be configured to track network or local activity of the client device. For example when a user of the client device clicks on a location within a web page displayed within the web browser the application script applet or the like may record information about the click activity. The recorded information may be stored locally on client device and or sent over network to community tracker server . In one embodiment additional information may be provided including a network address associated with the client device a timestamp or the like.

In addition client devices may employ a variety of other client applications to communicate with other devices over network including but not limited to Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP Instant Messaging IM Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS email or the like. Thus client devices may employ a variety of mechanisms to establish network sessions with another computing device.

Network is configured to couple one computing device with another computing device to enable them to communicate information. Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In essence network includes any communication method or communication medium by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device.

Additionally communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The data may be stored and or carried on the communication media in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave data signal or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The terms modulated data signal and carrier wave signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information instructions data and the like in the signal. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Community content servers in one embodiment are configured to operate as website servers. However community content servers are not limited to web servers and may also operate a gaming server a messaging server a File Transfer Protocol FTP server a database server content server and the like. Additionally each of community content servers may be configured to perform a different operation. Thus for example community content server may be configured as a blog website while community content server may be configured as music or video download server. Moreover while content servers may operate as other than a website they may still be enabled to receive an HTTP communication. In one embodiment community content servers may each operate a blog site.

In one embodiment community content servers may include a click tracker that is configured to monitor visitor or other user activity. In one embodiment the click tracker may be configured as a JavaScript. However the invention is not so limited and in other embodiments the click tracker may be configured as a downloaded plug in for a client web browser as an application applet or the like. In any event the click tracker may monitor for click activity by registered or unregistered users. When a click is detected click tracker may record information related to the click including but not limited to a network address of a visitor a link that is clicked on text associated with the link a time the click is detected a online community identifier or the like. Click tracker may store the recorded information and or provide the recorded information to community tracker server .

Devices that may operate as community content servers include personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers and the like.

One embodiment of community tracker server is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however community tracker server may include any computing device capable of connecting to network to enable aggregation analysis and or display of network statistics related to user actions on one or more community content servers . In one embodiment the display of network statistics represents network sites or other resources accessed by users who access at least some of the same online communities. For example in one embodiment network sites most visited by client devices that are associated with particular online communities may be displayed. An example illustration of such community data are described below in conjunction with .

Community tracker server may be configured to receive network data from a variety of sources including for example community content servers and or client devices . In one embodiment the network data may include information about click activity at a network site such as a community content server. Such information may include a URI clicked on a network address associated with the client device initiating the click activity a timestamp for when the click is detected a community identifier or the like. In one embodiment the information may also include geographic information associated with the client device initiating the click activity. In another embodiment community tracker server may be configured to employ a translator of a network address to a physical geographic location.

Devices that may operate as community tracker server include servers personal computers PCs desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network computers and the like.

Although illustrates community tracker server as a single computing device the invention is not so limited. For example one or more functions of community tracker server may be distributed across one or more distinct computing devices. For example aggregating of click tracker data determining an online community associated with the click tracker data preparing and or displaying of the resulting network statistics for a given online community or the like may be performed by a plurality of computing devices without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Moreover in one embodiment community tracker server may also be configured to operate as a content server. Thus in one embodiment community tracker server may also collect click network data.

As shown in the figure client device includes a processing unit CPU in communication with a mass memory via a bus . Client device also includes a power supply one or more network interfaces an audio interface a display a keypad an illuminator an input output interface an optional haptic interface and an optional global positioning systems GPS receiver . Power supply provides power to client device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Client device may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computing device. Network interface includes circuitry for coupling client device to one or more networks and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax session initiation protocol real time transport protocol SIP RTP or any of a variety of other wireless communication protocols. Network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display used with a computing device. Display may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand.

Keypad may comprise any input device arranged to receive input from a user. For example keypad may include a push button numeric dial or a keyboard. Keypad may also include command buttons that are associated with selecting and sending images. Illuminator may provide a status indication and or provide light. Illuminator may remain active for specific periods of time or in response to events. For example when illuminator is active it may backlight the buttons on keypad and stay on while the client device is powered. Also illuminator may backlight these buttons in various patterns when particular actions are performed such as dialing another client device. Illuminator may also cause light sources positioned within a transparent or translucent case of the client device to illuminate in response to actions. Further illuminator may provide a flash for an imaging component and or a continuous light source.

Client device also comprises input output interface for communicating with external devices such as a headset or other input or output devices not shown in . Input output interface can utilize one or more communication technologies such as USB infrared Bluetooth or the like. Optional haptic interface is arranged to provide tactile feedback to a user of the client device. For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate client device in a particular way when another user of a computing device is calling.

Optional GPS transceiver can determine the physical coordinates of client device on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS transceiver can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD cell identifier CI service area identifier SAI enhanced timing advance ETA base station subsystem BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of client device on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS transceiver can determine a physical location within millimeters for client device and in other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances. In one embodiment however client device may through other components provide other information that may be employed to determine a physical location of the device including for example a MAC address IP address or the like.

Mass memory includes a RAM a ROM and other storage means. Mass memory illustrates another example of computer storage media for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Mass memory stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of client device . The mass memory also stores an operating system for controlling the operation of client device . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile or the Symbian operating system. The operating system may include or interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Memory further includes one or more data storage which can be utilized by client device to store among other things applications and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of client device . The information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. Moreover data storage may also be employed to store behavior information including mouse click activity idle time or the like. At least a portion of the behavior information and or other data may also be stored on a disk drive or other storage medium not shown within client device .

Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by client device transmit receive and or otherwise process messages e.g. SMS MMS IM email voice and or other messages audio video and enable telecommunication with a content server and or another user of another client device. Other examples of application programs include contact managers task managers calendars transcoders database programs word processing programs security applications spreadsheet programs games search programs and so forth. Applications may further include a browser application such as browser . In one embodiment browser may include an optional tracker plug in. In one embodiment the tracker plug in may operate within a toolbar of browser . In various embodiments the plug in may be implemented as a script an applet a program an Application Programming Interface API to an application script applet or the like.

Browser may be configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages or the like. Browser may also be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any web based language and or protocol including but not limited to a wireless application protocol WAP or the like. In one embodiment browser is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and or send network information. In one embodiment browser may be configured to receive and send information using a network cookie or the like. Moreover browser may be configured to send and or receive at least some information over an encrypted network channel using for example Secure Socket Layers SSL Transport Layer Security TLS Wireless Transport Layer Security WTLS Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP or the like.

In one embodiment where browser includes an optional tracker browser may be configured to further track a user s network activities including local and or outbound click activities. Briefly a click activity includes virtually any machine readable action by a user through computer interfaces such as a mouse stylus keyboard or the like. Click information may include an input communicated over a network. Such click activity may include for example a signal sent over the network indicating a depression of a button on a computer mouse. However click activity may also include a signal sent over the network that may originate from an audio input as well.

In any event such click activity may be tracked by the optional tracker along with a network address for client device a timestamp for when the click is detected a network resource identifier such as a URI associated with the click text associated with the URI or the like. In one embodiment the optional tracker may determine whether the click is associated with a URI or not. In another embodiment clicks unassociated with a URI may be tracked differently or not at all.

The optional tracker may in one embodiment select to store at least some of the collected information within data storage . In another embodiment or at a later time the optional tracker may enable the collected information to be transmitted over a network to another computing device such as community tracker server of or the like. In one embodiment the transmitted information may be encrypted.

Network device includes processing unit video display adapter and a mass memory all in communication with each other via bus . The mass memory generally includes RAM ROM and one or more permanent mass storage devices such as hard disk drive tape drive optical drive and or floppy disk drive. The mass memory stores operating system for controlling the operation of network device . Any general purpose operating system may be employed. Basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling the low level operation of network device . As illustrated in network device also can communicate with the Internet or some other communications network via network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols including the TCP IP protocol. Network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

The mass memory as described above illustrates another type of computer readable media namely computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

The mass memory also stores program code and data. One or more applications are loaded into mass memory and run on operating system . Examples of application programs may include transcoders schedulers calendars database programs word processing programs HTTP programs customizable user interface programs IPSec applications encryption programs security programs VPN programs SMS message servers IM message servers email servers account management and so forth.

Mass memory may also include IP2 geolocation data store IDS . IDS may represent a database application script folder or the like that is configured to manage data that enables lookup of a physical geographical location using a network address. In one embodiment the network address is an IP address. In one embodiment the physical geographical location data may be in terms of latitude and longitude values. However the invention is not so constrained and other physical geographical location data may also be determined including for example a street address or the like. In one embodiment the geographical location data may also include other information including a street address a town name city name district name county name district name state name country name continent name or the like.

As illustrated applications also include optional click tracker and behavior analyzer . However the invention is not limited to these applications residing within the same network device. For example click tracker may reside in one network device such as in clients and or content servers of while behavior analyzer may reside within another network device such as community tracker server of . However for ease of illustration both are shown in this embodiment within the same network device.

As such click tracker is configured to monitor for click activity. In one embodiment the monitoring is for click activity on a defined network site s web page. In one embodiment when a click is detected on a body of the web page a determination is made whether the click originates from a URI link within the web page. If it does then click tracker may collect information including but not limited to the URI link a network address such as an IP address of the clicking client device link text associated with the URI link a timestamp associated with when the click is detected or the like.

In one embodiment click tracker may also determine whether the click is to an outbound site such as to a different domain than a domain in which current monitored web page is within. For example in one embodiment the click may be associated with an HTTP message that may include a referrer header field. The referrer header field may possibly including location information about where the request may have linked to from such as another website webpage or the like. In one embodiment the location information is a Universal Resource Identifier URI such as a Universal Resource Locator URL or the like. In any event such information may also be collected. In one embodiment click tracker may be configured to monitor defined click types such as outbound clicks for example.

Click tracker may also employ the network address to search IDS to determine a related geographical location. In another embodiment click tracker may store the collected information in a data store not shown . In one embodiment the data store may reside within mass memory within hard disk drive cd rom dvd rom drive or the like. In one embodiment click tracker may be configured to provide the collected information to another networking device. In one embodiment click tracker may provide the collected information to behavior analyzer for analysis and reporting.

Behavior analyzer is configured to receive the collected information and to prepare reports for network tracked activities. The collected information is generally analyzed based on activities associated with each online community such as user interactions with the community content servers. In an example embodiment behavior analyzer performs statistical analysis on the collected information such as determining averages maximum number of clicks frequency of accesses to a community or network resource duration of interaction with a community or network resource standard deviation or the like. The analysis generally results in identifying network resources that are of interest to one or more users. The network resources may also be analyzed to determine topics issues or other aspects associated with the network resources. The analysis results may be updated in real time periodically upon request by a user and or at other times. Analysis results are made available to a user for each online community with which the user is associated. In one embodiment a user registers with a central registration service and indicates a number of desired communities. The user may expressly indicate selected communities and or behavior analyzer may passively associate the user with communities based on the user s online behaviors.

Behavior analyzer may also search IDS using network address data within the collected information to determine a geographical location. Behavior analyzer may then aggregate collected data based on various geographical locations. For example behavior analyzer may determine which network sites are frequented by client devices within a given geographical location and also associated with certain online communities. Behavior analyzer may further rank order the network sites based on a number of different client devices with the geographical location that visited that network site and are associated with the same online communities as a given user. In one embodiment behavior analyzer may rank order the network sites based on a number of visits of client devices within the geographical location. Behavior analyzer may aggregate such statistics on visits to network sites based on different geographical locations including towns cites streets neighborhoods or any of the regions described above. However behavior analyzer is not constrained to determining network site statistics merely on a frequency of visits. Behavior analyzer may determine a variety of other statistics as well. For example behavior analyzer may determine when during a given time period such as mornings afternoons evenings weekends or the like that network sites are visited or the like. Behavior analyzer may provide for displaying the statistics using a variety of display formats including but not limited to lists tables charts maps or the like. Behavior analyzer may also revise the network statistics based on additionally collected information over time.

The operation of certain aspects of the invention will now be described with respect to . illustrates a logical flow diagram generally showing one embodiment of a process for identifying network activity of various online communities to which a user belongs and enabling display of activity of those online communities. Process may be implemented within network device of . However process may also be distributed across different computing devices. For example some operations may be implemented by content servers and or client devices of while the remaining operations of process may be implemented within community tracker server of .

In any event example process begins after a start block at block where a central registration service of the community tracker server receives registration information from a user. The registration information may include a user identifier client device information a primary location profile information or the like. Processing moves to a block where the community tracker server receives the user s selection of online communities to which the user belongs or is interested in. The user may enter the selections and or the selections may be obtained from user profile information by polling online communities with the user identifier or other sources.

At block click information and or other behavior information is gathered about the user and about other users associated with online communities including the user s selected online communities. For example a click is detected at an online community being monitored. A visitor to the online community may land on a web page displayed by the online community from another network site or even from no other network site. In one embodiment the clicking on the online community may be monitored by a JavaScript and or an application applet script or the like on the online community. As described above in another embodiment the monitoring of clicks may be performed by a plug in script applet or the like residing on the visitor s client device.

When a click is detected the click tracker may determine whether the click is a type of click to be tracked. Clicks may represent a variety of actions. For example a click may be a mouse selection of a link within the online community to another web page hosted by the online community. A click may also represent a click on a link that is an outbound link from the online community to another online community a different domain an external web page an external image or other external network resource. Clicks may also represent stray clicks by the visitor and may for example not be associated with any link. However clicks may also represent a variety of other actions. In one embodiment clicks associated with any link may be tracked. In another embodiment clicks associated with outbound links may be tracked while other clicks might be ignored or the like. Such determination may be defined during an initial configuration of the click tracker or may be defined at some other time. Thus based on the defined click criteria if the detected click is the type to be tracked processing continues otherwise processing loops back to monitor for another click.

Information associated with the click is collected. Such information may include a network address of the click source the client device . For example in one embodiment the network address may be an IP address. However the invention is not so constrained and a phone number MIN or the like may also be employed. In one embodiment a physical geographical location may also be collected. Such information may be obtained for example during a communication with the click source. In addition the collected information may include a URI associated with the click text associated with the URI or the like. In one embodiment a type of client device associated with the click might also be obtained and or user account information may be obtained that may be employed to identify a user of the client device. In one embodiment a timestamp may be generated for the collected information based on when the click is detected.

In one embodiment the collected information may be stored and or sent over a network to another computing device. In one embodiment as additional information on clicks is collected it may be sent over the network or stored and sent over the network based on some event such as a defined lapsed time or the like. The collected information may have been collected at a network device from a plurality of other network sites. For example community content servers of and or one or more other network sites not shown may provide collected information for selective clicks detected at that network site to community tracker server of or the like.

For each network address a geographic location may also be determined. In one embodiment the geographic location may be determined using an IDS data store database lookup program or the like. In one embodiment perhaps based on the network address the geographic location data or the like additional geo related information may also be obtained. For example geo political geo religious geo economic information or the like may also be obtained from a data store database lookup program or the like.

Process then flows to block where the collected information associated with one or more online communities may be aggregated and a statistical analysis may be performed. For example the behavior analyzer may count clicks on hyperlinks to determine a distribution of clicks to network resources within an online community. The behavior analyzer may count a total number a number at a predefined time a number over a predefined period a number over a predefined threshold or the like. The behavior analyzer may also sample the click information determine statistical variations filter the click information make projections based on the click information and or perform other analysis. In addition or alternatively the behavior analyzer may determine a distribution of clicks to network resources within and or outside an online community by registered users of the online community by unregistered visitors to the online community or both. The collected information may also include or be analyzed to determine an aggregation of usage patterns for each of a plurality of readers of a blog or other users of an online community. The collected information may further be aggregated based on a defined geographical region or other geo related region. For a given geo region a rank ordering of the visited network sites might be determined. The invention is not constrained to examples explicitly described above and virtually any statistical analysis of the collected click information may be performed.

At a block of this example embodiment the analysis leads to identifying network resources that are of interest to each online community. For instance the behavior analyzer may determine that a certain image within an online community is currently accessed more frequently than any other image within the online community even though another image has been access a greater number of total times. As another example the behavior analyzer may determine that registered users of an online community spend more average time at a network service outside the online community than other network services that are within or outside the online community. This indicates which network resources are of interest to users within the online community even if the network resources are not within the online community. Any type of interest may be identified by any metric of the analysis. For instance the behavior analyzer or another support module may evaluate content of the identified network resources to infer categories issues people or other topics that are of interest to users who accessed the identified network resources.

Processing optionally continues to a block where the identified network resources or topics are ranked or otherwise ordered for each online community. In one embodiment the network resources are also ordered or otherwise analyzed for a group of online communities. For example the behavior analyzer may rank identified network resources of a given user s selected online communities to identify those network resources that are receiving the most activity relative to each other. In addition or alternatively the behavior analyzer may identify and rank those network resources that are accessed by visitors to all of the given user s online communities.

In any event processing continues to block where the identified network resources inferred topics aggregated click information and or other community activity data may be provided to one or more clients for display. The community activity data may be made available directly to clients or via the community content servers. The community activity data may be provided in an individual web page through a widget on in any number of other ways. Process then continues to perform other actions.

It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also cause at least some of the operational steps shown in the blocks of the flowchart to be performed in parallel. Moreover some of the steps may also be performed across more than one processor such as might arise in a multi processor computer system. In addition one or more blocks or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration may also be performed concurrently with other blocks or combinations of blocks or even in a different sequence than illustrated without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

