---

title: Artifact suppression in multi-coil MRI
abstract: A magnetic resonance imaging system (), comprising a plurality of receiving units (-) for receiving magnetic resonance signals from an object (), and an image reconstruction device (), said image reconstruction device being adapted to receive magnetic resonance signals of said object () from said plurality of receiving units (-) and to perform image reconstruction by combining magnetic resonance signals received by said plurality of receiving units using an image reconstruction algorithm (), characterized in that said image reconstruction device () comprises means () for combining magnetic resonance signal contributions from respective receiving units (-) in such a way that a combined sensitivity of the plurality of receiving units (-) to a predetermined spatial region of the object () is reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08913811&OS=08913811&RS=08913811
owner: Koninklijke Philips N.V.
number: 08913811
owner_city: Eindhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20120809
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 374 321 filed on Jan. 19 2009 which is the U.S. National Stage application of International Application No. PCT IB2007 052588 filed on Jul. 3 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 244 011 which claims priority to EP 06117393.6 filed on Jul. 18 2006. These applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates to a magnetic resonance imaging system comprising a plurality of receiving units for receiving magnetic resonance signals from an object further comprising an image reconstruction device said image reconstruction device being adapted to receive magnetic resonance signals of said object from said plurality of receiving units and to perform image reconstruction by combining magnetic resonance signals received by said plurality of receiving units using an image reconstruction algorithm.

The present invention also relates to a method of image reconstruction in a magnetic resonance imaging system comprising receiving magnetic resonance signals of an object from a plurality of receiving units and performing image reconstruction by combining magnetic resonance signals received by said plurality of receiving units by means of an image reconstruction algorithm.

The present invention further relates to a computer program product particularly for storing on a computer readable storage means for use in a magnetic resonance imaging system and more particularly for upgrading an existing magnetic resonance imaging system said computer program product comprising first code sequences for implementing a mechanism for receiving magnetic resonance signals of an object from a plurality of receiving units and second code sequences for implementing an image reconstruction algorithm performing image reconstruction by combining magnetic resonance signals received by said plurality of receiving units.

In magnetic resonance imaging MRI it frequently happens that a region which is not of clinical interest disseminates artefacts over clinically interesting regions. For instance the aorta may disseminate flow artefacts i.e. a particular form of motion artefacts onto the liver. In much the same way the breast or the heart may cause artefacts over the spine due to their respective motions.

A prior art approach to obviating generation of the above mentioned artefacts consists in employing a Regional Saturation Technique REST which involves applying a so called saturation pulse to a problematic i.e. moving area of an object to be imaged in particular a human body. This technique is well known in the art and effectively prevents object atoms in said problematic area to emit magnetic resonance signals.

However said technique is often bound to geometrical restrictions because performing pre saturation in regions other than straight slabs is usually impractical. Furthermore the above described prior art approach suffers from serious drawbacks in terms of scan time attainable repetition rate etc. In addition due to said saturation pulses an amount of radiation absorbed by the patient is increased.

It is the object of the present invention to provide a magnetic resonance imaging system as well as a method of the above mentioned type which enable obtaining high quality magnetic resonance images from an object e.g. a patient which do not suffer from artefacts caused by any kind of instability e.g. motion or other local effects which occur with respect to a limited portion of an object under study and which are not bound to geometrical restrictions.

According to a first aspect of the present invention the object is achieved by providing a magnetic resonance imaging system of the above mentioned type wherein said image reconstruction device comprises means for combining magnetic resonance signal contributions from respective receiving units in such a way that a combined sensitivity of the plurality of receiving units to a predetermined spatial region of the object is reduced.

According to a second aspect of the present invention the object is achieved by providing a computer program product of the above mentioned type which comprises further code sequences for implementing a mechanism for combining magnetic resonance signal contributions from respective receiving units in such a way that a combined sensitivity of the plurality of receiving units to a predetermined spatial region of the object is reduced.

According to a third aspect of the present invention the object is achieved by providing a method of the above mentioned type which comprises the step of combining magnetic resonance signal contributions from respective receiving units in such a way that a combined sensitivity of the plurality of receiving units to a predetermined spatial region of the object is reduced.

Thus by employing a magnetic resonance signal acquisition system comprising a plurality of receiving elements which may also be used to perform parallel Magnetic Resonance Imaging pMRI the problem of artefact images can be solved by simply modifying the image reconstruction or coil combination algorithm such that the result of said algorithm shows minimum sensitivity to a predefined region or area of the object which is known to be problematic with respect to image reconstruction for instance due to intrinsic motion of said region or area. In this way magnetic resonance imaging e.g. parallel magnetic resonance imaging allows for intrinsically avoiding image artefacts.

For instance assume a first coil located in front of the object patient and a second coil located behind the object patient . Said first coil has a spatial sensitivity of 2 in arbitrary units at a first region of the object e.g. the patient s heart and a spatial sensitivity of 1 at a second region of the object e.g. the patient s spine . The second coil has a spatial sensitivity of 2 in arbitrary units at the first region of the object and a spatial sensitivity of 2 at the second region of the object. If the second region the spine is of interest for a particular study then in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the first and second coils i.e. their respective signal contributions should be combined subtractively thus yielding zero sensitivity i.e. a reduced or relatively lower sensitivity at the first region of the object which is presumed to disseminates artefacts over the more interesting second region.

In one embodiment of the invention a user may indicate an area known for causing motion or other kinds of artefacts. This approach has some similarity to placing REST slabs known from the prior art wherein placing of said slabs is also planned by the user. However since artefacts are avoided by modification of the image reconstruction algorithm only there is no restriction of region geometry to slab like structures. Furthermore assuming that acquired magnetic resonance raw data is kept in memory defining said region can be done either before or after the actual acquisition process thus making the inventive approach highly flexible during practical operation. Additionally the avoidance of REST slabs has the advantage of reducing the amount of radiated power to which an object e.g. a patient is exposed.

In a corresponding embodiment of the computer program product in accordance with the present invention the latter further comprises code sequences for implementing a mechanism for receiving input data for geometrically defining said region before or after measuring said magnetic resonance signals.

In one embodiment of the magnetic resonance imaging system in accordance with the present invention said image reconstruction device of the latter comprises means for estimating image data points p by evaluating the expression Eq. 1 with wherein m is a vector with measured magnetic resonance data per receiving unit S is an array of receiving unit or coil sensitivities Sis the hermitian transpose of S a noise covariance matrix and is an additional term accounting for a motion or any kind of local instability of the object. Departing from the known image reconstruction algorithm this provides for improving the prior art as desired. Furthermore this approach particularly lends itself for upgrading an existing magnetic resonance imaging system e.g. by providing and implementing suitable software modules.

Said approach is valid for parallel imaging as well. Then in analogy to Pruessmann et al. Magn. Reson. Med. 1999 42 pp. 952 962 p becomes a vector and S becomes a matrix.

In a corresponding embodiment of the computer program product in accordance with the present invention the latter further comprises program code sequences for implementing a mechanism for estimating image data points by evaluating the above defined Eq. 1.

In a corresponding further embodiment the method in accordance with the present invention further comprises estimating image data points by evaluating the above defined Eq. 1.

In yet another embodiment of the magnetic resonance imaging system in accordance with the present invention said image reconstruction device of the latter comprises means for determining said additional term matrix according to the relation 1 Eq. 2 wherein are matrix elements of said additional term A is a quantity of said predetermined spatial region of the object q x y is a signal strength of a reference signal s x y s x y is a sensitivity of receiving unit i k at image position x y respectively and a is a predefined numerical factor. Furthermore x and y denote spatial coordinates in the 2D image plane.

In a further embodiment of the computer program product in accordance with the present invention the latter further comprises code sequences for implementing a mechanism for determining said additional term according to the above defined Eq. 2. In another embodiment the computer program product in accordance with the present invention may further comprise program code sequences for implementing a mechanism for including said additional term in said image reconstruction algorithm.

In a corresponding embodiment the method in accordance with the present invention further comprises determining said additional term according to the above defined Eq. 2. In another embodiment the method in accordance with the present invention may further comprise including said additional term in said image reconstruction algorithm.

Using the inventive approach in connection with pMRI further reduces scan time and the amount of radiation absorbed by the object patient .

Further advantages and characteristics of the present invention can be gathered from the following description of preferred embodiments with reference to the appended drawings. Features mentioned above as well as below can be used either individually or in conjunction in the context of the present invention. The described embodiments are not to be regarded as an exhaustive enumeration but rather as examples with respect to a basic concept underlying the present invention.

Note that while embodiments of the present invention will hereinafter be described primarily with respect to avoiding motion artefacts any other kind of artefact caused by local instabilities could also be avoided in a similar fashion. Beside the above mentioned flow artefacts system instabilities caused by a pronounced off centre location of some part of an object under study or by differences in brightness of some part of the object may be of relevance here.

The magnetic resonance imaging system of further comprises a control unit which is operatively connected with an input unit and which generally comprises storage means and an image reconstruction device dashed box in . The latter is preferably devised in software form e.g. by implementing suitable program code sequences on said control unit .

Image reconstruction device comprises first receiving means for receiving said magnetic resonance signals of object from said receiving units . .. Image reconstruction device further comprises second receiving means for receiving input data from input unit . Image reconstruction device further includes an algorithmic unit having further means and a function of which will be described in detail below.

As known to a person skilled in the art during operation of the magnetic resonance imaging system of receiving units . . provide magnetic resonance data of object . Said data i.e. corresponding magnetic resonance signals are received by first receiving means of control unit image reconstruction device . Using multiple receiver coils . . each with different and known spatial sensitivities allows reconstructing of the magnetic resonance image of object by employing a suitable image reconstruction algorithm as provided by algorithmic unit of . To this end data received by first receiving means preferably is first stored at least temporarily in storage means and then provided to algorithmic unit for image reconstruction.

Image reconstruction is based on the above defined algorithm e.g. as defined by Eqs. 1 and 2 which is implemented by means of algorithmic unit for operating on said magnetic resonance signal raw data provided by first receiving means and or storage means as previously described.

As already stated above a suitable image reconstruction algorithm can be written as wherein m is a vector with the measured data per coil element i . . p is an estimated of image data point or a vector of image data points in the case of parallel imaging S is an array of coil sensitivities matrix s x y being the sensitivity of coil i at image position x y Sis the hermitian transpose transposed complex conjugate of S and is the noise covariance matrix being the square of the noise deviation of coil element i .

As already pointed out the above defined reconstruction algorithm generally can be used for parallel and non parallel imaging wherein non parallel imaging is regarded as a limiting case with a speed up factor equal to unity. In the case of non parallel imaging p is a scalar and S is a 1 N matrix N being the number of receiving units coils used. As for parallel imaging is an N N matrix.

As already stated above in MRI it frequently happens that a region that is not of clinical interest disseminates artefact over clinically interesting regions of an object to be studied. In medical MRI one typical example is the aorta which disseminates flow artefacts onto the liver. Another typical example is the breast or the heart which due to their respective motion may cause artefacts over the spine. The latter case is schematically illustrated in 

When using the magnetic resonance imaging system as described so far with reference to appended motion artefact data in the magnetic resonance signals provided by receiving units . . would result in motion artefacts being present in the reconstructed image data provided by image reconstruction device i.e. algorithmic unit .

In order to obviate this effect the image reconstruction device algorithmic unit of the magnetic resonance imaging system in accordance with the present invention further comprises software means for combining magnetic resonance signal contributions from respective receiving units . . in such a way that a combined sensitivity of the plurality of receiving units is relatively lower i.e. reduced to a predetermined spatial region of the object as previously described in connection with first and second receiving coils located in front of and behind an object respectively. In other words Said receiving coils are combined in such a way that the combination shows little or no sensitivity to an area of the object in particular to an area which is suspected to cause artefacts in the resulting magnetic resonance image.

Alternatively or additionally the image reconstruction device algorithmic unit of the magnetic resonance imaging system in accordance with the present invention may comprise software means for including in the above defined image reconstruction algorithm an additional term which accounts for a motion of a predetermined spatial region of object . Furthermore according to the embodiment of image reconstruction device algorithmic unit further comprises means for determining said additional matrix term according to the relation 1 Eq. 2 wherein is a matrix element of said extra term A refers to an area of said predetermined spatial region region of motion of the object and a is a user defined factor indicating an expected quantitative amount of motion artefacts. The value of a should be chosen in accordance with a motion quality of the moving object e.g. the heart in the example of and should be essentially unity if the moving object is known to be very jerky and unpredictable. Furthermore q x y is an amount of signal signal strength measured by a reference coil not shown in during a reference scan for correctly adjusting an algorithmical impact of the proposed additional term in accordance with the present invention.

In this way the reconstruction algorithm employed in the context of the present invention as implemented by means of algorithmic unit comprising said addition term determining means and additional term including means is given by shows a schematic diagram illustrating a defined region for obviating motion induced artefacts in accordance with the present invention. In the same reference numerals are used for the same or similar elements as in . Additionally in said user defined region of for instance hexagonal shape and area A is denoted by means of reference numeral . The small cross like symbols inside region of illustrate individual locations within area A generally corresponding to said region in terms of image position coordinates x y . Thus coil sensitivities s x y at each of said locations x y within region are used to determine the matrix elements of the additional term as defined above.

In accordance with the present invention region can be defined prior to acquisition of magnetic resonance data by means of receiving units . .. Alternatively the acquired magnetic resonance raw data is stored in storage means region may also be defined after said magnetic resonance data acquisition.

In the embodiment of input unit is preferably used for providing geometrical data descriptive of said region to image reconstruction device algorithmic unit through said second receiving means .

In all embodiments of the present invention an image reconstruction may first be performed without including said additional term in algorithmic unit . Then following inspection of the reconstructed image data for instance on a displaying unit not shown connected with control unit user may identify a moving region of object e.g. region heart of the human body such that image reconstruction can be reperformed by image reconstruction device algorithmic unit involving determining and including the additional term through means and respectively as previously described.

For this reason the approach proposed in the context of the present invention can also be referred to as post scan REST which achieves the advantages of conventional REST Regional Saturation Technique without suffering from drawbacks associated with conventional REST in particular in terms of scan time attainable repetition rate and limitation to saturation geometries in the form of straight slabs. In this way radiation exposure of the object patient can be reduced.

In this context the present invention makes use of the fact that magnetic resonance imaging using a plurality of receiving units with different spatial sensitivities allows for intrinsically avoiding image artefact by proposing a suitable coil combination algorithm see above according to which the employed plurality of receiving units in combination shows only minimal sensitivity to an area A region in which is known to be problematic in the context of acquiring reconstructing magnetic resonance images. This approach can be used with both parallel and non parallel imaging techniques.

Then in step S magnetic resonance raw data is acquired by said plurality of receiving units by sampling the k space as known to a person skilled in the art. Preferably the acquired raw data is also stored in storage means .

Then in step S a region of the object which is expected to move or to have moved is defined by a user possibly after inspection of a first image reconstructed from said raw data as previously described. Note that in accordance with the invention steps S and S could be reversed in order i.e. said region is defined prior to acquiring storing magnetic resonance data.

Having defined said region in step S the additional term is determined in the form of matrix as defined above and is included in the reconstruction algorithm in subsequent step S.

Then in subsequent step S a desired magnetic resonance image is reconstructed from the acquired raw data by means of the proposed novel algorithm thus effectively obviating the impact of motion artefacts.

