---

title: Information removal from a network
abstract: Technologies are generally described for systems, methods and devices effective to remove information from a network such as the Internet. In some examples, a device may include a memory including instructions and a processor configured in communication with the memory. The processor may be configured effective to receive user information relating to a user and search the network using the user information. In response to the search, the processor may find additional information relating to the user stored in the network. The processor may receive a first request to remove particular information from the network. The particular information may be part of the additional information and the particular information may be removable by a second user. The processor may send a second request to remove the particular information from the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251177&OS=09251177&RS=09251177
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09251177
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120612
---
This application is a U.S. application filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US12 42044 filed on Jun. 12 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

A network such as the Internet is a collection of computers and or processors connected to be in communication. A social network on the Internet may allow a user to post information about the user so that others in the user s social network may view the information by communication through the Internet. Information about the user may include pictures videos text commentaries etc.

In an example a method for removing information from a network is generally described. The method may include by a processor receiving user information relating to a first user. The method may further include searching the network using the user information. The method may include in response to searching finding additional information relating to the first user stored in the network. The method may include receiving a first request to remove particular information from the network. The particular information may be part of the additional information and the particular information may be removable by a second user. The method may include sending a second request to remove the particular information from the network.

In an example a device effective to remove information from a network is generally described. The device may include a memory including instructions and a processor configured in communication with the memory. The processor may be configured effective to receive user information relating to a user. The processor may be configured effective to search the network using the user information. The processor may be configured effective to in response to the search find additional information relating to the user stored in the network. The processor may be configured effective to receive a first request to remove particular information from the network. The particular information may be part of the additional information and the particular information may be removable by a second user. The processor may be configured effective to send a second request to remove the particular information from the network.

In an example a system effective to remove information from the Internet is generally described. The system may include a first memory including instructions a removal processor configured in communication with the first memory and a social network processor configured in communication with the removal processor over the Internet. The removal processor may be configured effective to receive user information relating to a user. The removal processor may be configured effective to search the social network processor using the user information. The removal processor may be configured effective to in response to the search find additional information relating to the user. The removal processor may be configured effective to receive a first request to remove particular information from the Internet. The particular information may be part of the additional information and the particular information may be removable by a second user. The removal processor may be configured effective to send a second request to remove the particular information from the Internet.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to methods apparatus systems devices and computer program products related to information removal from a network.

Briefly stated technologies are generally described for systems methods and devices effective to remove information from a network such as the Internet. In some examples a device may include a memory including instructions and a processor configured in communication with the memory. The processor may be configured effective to receive user information relating to a user and search the network using the user information. In response to the search the processor may find additional information relating to the user stored in the network. The processor may receive a first request to remove particular information from the network. The particular information may be part of the additional information and the particular information may be removable by a second user. The processor may send a second request to remove the particular information from the network.

Removal processor may provide a standalone service that may operate independently of other processors . Removal processor may operate in conjunction with and or be a service provided by one or more processors . Removal processor may be adapted to access multiple processors may be focused on a particular processor or may be effective to operate on many or all processors in network . Processor may be a social network processor. Processor may be a search engine processor. User processor may request that removal processor process information periodically perhaps once a month.

User information may provide sufficient information for removal processor to search network and find additional information . User information may identify to removal processor where removal processor should crawl in network . For example user information may include a user s name user identification with one or more social networks such as FACEBOOK TWITTER LINKEDIN TUMBLR etc. age gender job status sexual orientation ethnicity location one or more images audio clip video clip social security number credit card or bank account information passwords residence occupation nationality whether the user owns or rents or lives with parents personal assets other user identifications biometric or other sensor data etc.

In some examples user information may effectively be a request relating to removal of particular information. For example user information may include photographs at a particular location or that were taken at a defined specified time interval e.g. in March 2012 or Fall 2011 . Such user information may effectively be a request that these and related photographs around the specified time interval be removed from the Internet. Removal processor may then search network for additional information including photographs taken during the defined period of time and or with geographic tags around the particular location. For example photographs posted to a social network processor may include embedded geotag information that may be searched by removal processor .

Removal processor may receive and process user information to produce a signature relating to user . As multiple pieces of information may be received from user signature may help distinguish user from other users who share some information with user . In examples where removal processor received confidential or sensitive information instructions may help ensure that the confidential information is maintained in a confidential and or blind way.

Removal processor may be adapted to search network using signature . Removal processor may have access to information in memory of social network processor . For example removal processor may be controlled by or have a relationship with social network processor . For example removal processor may be operated by an insurance company who may have negotiated a proprietary way of accessing information in memory of social network processor . Removal processor may operate in accordance with an API application programming interface made available by social network processor .

As user information may include a user identification and password for user at social network processor removal processor may log in or otherwise obtain access to social network processor acting on behalf of as user . Removal processor may obtain a social graph relating to user at one or more social network processors . Social graph may indicate one or more nodes connected to user in a social network such as through TUMBLR LINKEDIN FACEBOOK etc. Removal processor may interpret social graph to identify locations and or nodes where removal processor may find more information relating to user such as nodes within a threshold number of hops from user in social graph . Removal processor may send social graph to user processor and receive updated information in response. Updated information may indicate nodes in social graph where removal processor should look for more information relating to user . For example user may prune social graph and identify particular nodes that are more likely to have information that user would like removed from the Internet.

Using user information removal processor can find information from social network processor or other processors that may not be index able by a search engine. Similarly a search engine may employ removal processor as a service offered by the search engine. Removal processor may be adapted to scrape screens available from social network processor .

Removal processor may search social network processor search engine processor and or other processors using signature to find additional information relating to user . For example removal processor may search network for images or photographs that correspond to images provided in information using image recognition software. Removal processor may search for images with tags or other information corresponding to information of user . For example images in memory may have captions or other tags corresponding to user information .

Social network processor may be linked to another social network processor configured in communication with a memory . For example FACEBOOK may be linked with FOURSQUARE such that posts to one of the social network processors may be identified and posted by the other of the social network processors. Instructions may include rules identifying when processors in network are linked to one another. For example instructions may indicate that social network processor is linked to social network processor . In examples where removal processor identifies social network processor as a processor to search for additional information relating to user instructions may control removal processor to also search social network processor . If another password and user identification is required removal processor may request the password and user identification from user .

Removal processor may order or rank additional information based on how likely the additional information corresponds to user or based on the sensitivity of the information. For example additional information relating to photographs corresponding to images in information may yield a large number of photographs depending on the sophistication of image recognition software. Removal processor may rank additional information based on where the information was found. For example if additional information is more than a threshold number of nodes away from user in social graph there may be less likelihood that the additional information corresponds to user . Conversely if additional information is less than a threshold number of nodes away from user in social graph there is a greater likelihood that the additional information corresponds to user .

Additional information that has a greater likelihood of embarrassment may be ranked higher. For example results found in FACEBOOK may have a greater chance of embarrassment than results found in LINKEDIN. Additional information with a social security number and or credit card number may be sensitive and may be ranked higher than other additional information.

As mentioned above removal processor may search network and find additional information in response. User processor may generate request requesting that particular information be removed from network . Some information may be removed by removal processor automatically. For example request may request that photographs or images corresponding to user be removed from network . To the extent the user has control over information such as when information is in his her social network request may indicate that information be automatically removed. In this example request may be effective to delete information from network .

In situations where particular information cannot be deleted such as when the particular information is removable by another user e.g. user does not have rights or permissions to remove the particular information request may request that information be removed or obfuscated. For example in an image of user in a photograph including other people or a video including user request may request that the image or video of user be blurred or replaced with another image. In situations where information is removable by another user request may include a request to remove or obfuscate information . For example request may include a modified photograph or video of user where an image or video of user has been blurred. Removal processor may request that the modified photograph be used to replace an existing photograph. For example removal processor may act on behalf of user to request deletion or obfuscation of information . Request may include a request to remove information under control by other user . Removal processor may be adapted to periodically ask other user if information has been removed and to inform user of communication with other user relating to attempts to remove information .

Removal processor may coordinate with user processor to offer an incentive to other user to remove information . For example removal processor may be adapted to coordinate transfer of funds from user to other user to remove information . In examples where information is determined to be removed from a first processor instructions may indicate that the same information should be removed from a linked processor and request may be sent to the linked processor.

After removal of information information may still show up in search results such as by search engine processor . Removal processor may inform user processor as to approximately how long information will show up in search results by search engine processor . Similarly not all removals may have an immediate effective depending on refresh and caching characteristics of various processors. Removal processor may inform user processor as to approximately how long information may show up in search results. Removal processor may also schedule additional follow up searches to determine the status of the removal. In an example a user may wish to remove photographs relating to the user at a particular event such as what occurred at Lake X. The user may remove photographs relating to Lake X from the user s social network accounts but photographs may appear in other social network accounts and or locations on the Internet. Friends may have posted photographs on TUMBLR PINTEREST etc. The user may send user information to the removal processor. The removal processor may generate a signature based on the user information. The removal processor may use the signature to search the Internet using the user s information and find additional information. The additional information may include photographs where the user was tagged or photographs where based on image recognition an image of the user appears. The user may request that these photographs be removed from the Internet. The user may request that photographs of the user under control of the another user be blurred. Photographs under control of the user may be deleted. In photographs which include the user and other people the user s image may be blurred or otherwise obfuscated. For photographs under control of another user a request may be made for those images to be removed from the Internet or obfuscated.

The request to remove may have an ability to override certain standard functionalities in the processors such as a social network processor. For example a higher level remove request may allow a requesting user to remove information from a memory even if a user in control of the information does not approve. For example certain users may be able to remove information from FACEBOOK pages controlled by another user even if the other user does not approve. Other middle level remove requests may require approval from the user in control of the information. Some removal requests may have associated automatic notification of compliance logging of compliance data etc.

In an example a user may wish to leave FACEBOOK. The user may remove all photographs and tags that are accessible to the user. The user may also request that friends and friends of friends delete or blur photographs relating to the user. Friends may be given a copy of the proposed modified blurred photograph and asked to 1 delete the original photograph 2 blur the original photograph in accordance with the proposed modified photograph 3 provide a different blurred photograph or 4 reject the request. If the request is rejected the user may want to distance himself or herself from the rejecting user in FACEBOOK or post different photographs that do not resemble the photos desired to be removed.

In an example a user may want to leave FACEBOOK. Natural language comments may exist on the social network relating to the user. The disclosed system may find these comments and present them to the user as additional information that may be removed from the Internet.

Among other possible benefits a system in accordance with the disclosure may allow a user to remove undesired information from a network such as the Internet. A user may use the described system to enforce privacy laws such as removing photographs depicting the user. The user may use the system to remove display of the user s social security number. In an example a user entering a witness protection program may have their information removed from the Internet. Items like surveillance photographs grades etc. may be removed from the Internet. A member of a social network who has been associated with the social network for a period of time may have information scattered in multiple places. Using the disclosed system this member may be able to remove at least some of his her information from the Internet. Embarrassing information on a social network may be removed. A user may also leave one social network and move to another. In an example the removal processor may receive information relating to a list of people who had identity information stolen. The removal processor may remove the information from the Internet.

Processing may begin at block S Receive user information relating to a first user. At block S a processor may be configured effective to receive information relating to a first user. For example the user information may include a user name or password for a user at a social network processor. The user information may include age gender job status sexual orientation ethnicity location one or more images audio clip video clip social security number credit card or bank account information passwords residence occupation nationality whether the user owns or rents or lives with parents personal assets biometric or other sensor data etc.

Processing may continue from block S to block S Search the network using the user information. At block S the processor may search the network such as the Internet using the user information. For example the processor may search a social network using the user information such as through use of an application programming interface. The processor may scrape a screen from a social network processor. The processor may log into the social network using the user information or otherwise use the user information to obtain access to the social network obtain a social graph relating to the user and identify nodes connected to the user. The processor may search a first processor and then a second processor indicated as being linked to the first processor. The processor may use image recognition to identify images and photographs similar to an image of the user in the user information.

Processing may continue from block S to block S In response to the search find additional information relating to the first user stored in the network. At block S the processor may find additional information relating to the user. For example the additional information may be removable by a second user. The processor may rank the additional information based on a likelihood that the additional information corresponds to the first user.

Processing may continue from block S to block S Receive a first request to remove particular information from the network the particular information may be part of the additional information and the particular information may be removable by a second user. At block S the processor may receive a request to remove information that is removable or under control of a second user.

Processing may continue from block S Send a second request to remove the particular information from the network. At block S the processor may be effective to send a request to remove the particular information from the network. For example the processor may send a request to obfuscate or blur images corresponding to the user. The processor may identify the additional information on a first processor and send a request to a second processor linked to the first processor to remove the additional information.

In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example computer program product may be conveyed to one or more modules of the system by an RF signal bearing medium where the signal bearing medium is conveyed by a wireless communications medium e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming with the IEEE 802.11 standard .

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . An example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data .

Application may include an information removal algorithm that is arranged to perform the functions as described herein including those described previously with respect to . Program data may include information removal data that may be useful for implementing information removal from a network as is described herein. In some embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system such that information removal from a network may be provided. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

