---

title: Gaming machine having an accumulation/matching bonus
abstract: A feature game in a gaming machine includes a first portion during which a set of bonus slots is accumulated. A second portion includes selecting at least one set of a predetermined number of target symbols, associated with a bonus award, from among a pool of bonus symbols during which selected bonus symbols are not removed from the pool, and selecting a set of match symbols, equal in number to the accumulated number of bonus slots, from among the pool of bonus symbol during which selected bonus symbols are removed from the pool. The match symbols are compared to the at least one set of target symbols. If all the symbols in the at least one set of target symbols correspond to match symbols, the bonus award associated with the at least one set of target symbols is awarded to the player.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08480473&OS=08480473&RS=08480473
owner: Bally Gaming, Inc.
number: 08480473
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120209
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention is directed to wagering games gaming machines networked gaming systems and methods in particular to wagering games gaming machines networked gaming systems and methods having accumulation matching style feature games.

In the prior art various types of gaming machines have been developed with different features to captivate and maintain player interest. In general a gaming machine allows a player to play a game in exchange for a wager. Depending on the outcome of the game the player may be entitled to an award which is paid to the player by the gaming machine normally in the form of currency or game credits. Gaming machines may include flashing displays lighted displays or sound effects to capture a player s interest in a gaming device.

Another important feature of maintaining player interest in a gaming machine includes providing the player with many opportunities to win awards such as cash or prizes. For example in some slot machines the display windows show more than one adjacent symbol on each reel thereby allowing for multiple line betting.

Some gaming machine games today include one or more progressive prize awards. In some configurations the progressive prize may have a small probability of a player winning it thus making it possible to have a larger progressive prize. In other game configurations the progressive prize may be a small amount thus allowing the player to win the progressive prize more frequently. In most typical game configurations the player wins the progressive prize as a result of a specific game outcome within the primary or main game.

Feature games of various types have been employed to reward players above the amounts normally awarded on a standard game pay schedule. Generally such feature games are triggered by predetermined events such as one or more appearances of certain combinations of indicia in a primary game. In order to stimulate interest feature games are typically set to occur at a gaming machine on a statistical cycle based upon the number of primary game plays.

While gaming machines including feature games have been successful there remains a need for feature games that provide players with enhanced excitement and an increased opportunity of winning.

In accordance with principles of the present invention a method of operating a game controlled by a gaming machine includes accepting a wager from a player presenting a primary game awarding any primary game awards to the player and upon a triggering event presenting a feature game. The feature game includes performing a first portion of the feature game during which a set of bonus slots is accumulated and performing a second portion of the feature game. The second portion of the feature game includes selecting at least one set of a predetermined number of target symbols associated with a bonus award from among a pool of bonus symbols during which selected bonus symbols are not removed from the pool and selecting a set of match symbols equal in number to the accumulated number of bonus slots from among the pool of bonus symbols during which selected bonus symbols are removed from the pool. The match symbols are compared to the at least one set of target symbols. If all the symbols in the at least one set of target symbols correspond to match symbols the bonus award associated with the at least one set of target symbols is awarded to the player.

Various embodiments are directed to a game gaming machine gaming networks and method for playing a game wherein the game includes an accumulation matching style feature game. The embodiments are illustrated and described herein by way of example only and not by way of limitation.

In general the gaming machine accepts a wager from a player presents a primary game awards any primary game awards to the player and upon a triggering event presents a feature game.

An example game in accordance with one or more aspects of the invention is shown in . Referring to and game is implemented using five spinning reels . Each of 25 pay line patterns all not shown passes through one indicium on each of the five reels. The number of pay lines and their patterns are by way of example only and may vary. The player selects the number of played pay lines and the number of credits or coins wagered on each line using touch screen controls or gaming device control buttons. CREDIT meter provides the player with information about the amount paid by the last game played and the total number of credits available for play. BET meter displays the size of the currently selected wager. The player may collect the balance of his credits by pressing a COLLECT button not shown .

The player initiates game play by pressing a SPIN button not shown . In some embodiments the player may simultaneously select all pay lines at the maximum number of coins or credits allowed per line by pressing a MAX BET button not shown . Various controls buttons see or touch screen buttons on gaming machine may be used to perform the actions described here without deviating from the scope of the invention. Reels are made to spin and stop in predetermined stop positions. A determination is made whether the stop positions of the reels represents a winning game outcome.

Referring to to the player may view various help screens including pay table displays on the primary game display by way of a HELP or similar button. In alternate embodiments pay table display may be presented on a second video or printed display attached to the gaming device i.e. display or pay glass . A winning combination for example could be three or more symbols scattered one per reel from left to right. For each winning combination the game device awards the player the award in the pay table adjusted as necessary based on the number of credits wagered on the pay line on which the win occurred.

In some embodiments various primary game outcomes may be utilized to trigger the play of a feature game including but not limited to awarding feature game play when certain symbols appear on a pay line when certain symbols are scattered when no symbols of a certain type appear when a certain winning combination occurs or regardless of the visible symbols at random or fixed intervals. That is the triggering event may be the appearance of a predetermined number of trigger icons. For example in the illustrated embodiment three FREE GAMES symbols see scattered from left to right on reels and triggers play of a feature game see . The availability of the feature game may be restricted based on the size of the wager or a percentage of each wager may be explicitly allocated to the funding of the feature games.

In general the feature game includes performing a first portion during which a set of bonus slots is accumulated and a second portion. During the second portion at least one set of a predetermined number of target symbols associated with a bonus award is randomly selected from among a pool of bonus symbols. During this selection process selected bonus symbols are not removed from the pool. A set of match symbols equal in number to the accumulated number of bonus slots is randomly selected from among the pool of bonus symbols. During this selection process selected bonus symbols are removed from the pool. The match symbols are compared to the at least one set of target symbols. If all of the symbols in the at least one set of target symbols correspond to match symbols the bonus award associated with the at least one set of target symbols is awarded to the player.

In accordance with the present invention illustrates the operation of a feature game having an accumulation matching style bonus. More specifically when the feature game is triggered by the appearance of three FREE GAMES icons the feature game performs a first portion by awarding the player a predetermined number of free games. Referring to in the illustrated embodiment the player is awarded 10 free games. Any winning combinations resulting from the free games are awarded to the player. In addition during the predetermined number of free games additional free games may be awarded to the player during the predetermined number of free games based on the appearance of FREE GAMES icons. In the illustrated embodiment a maximum of 50 free games are awarded to the player though one skilled in the art understands that a different maximum number of free games or no maximum at all may be applied.

During the free games portion of the feature game bonus slots are accumulated. Referring again to a Bonus Ball icon represents a bonus slot. During the free games portion of the feature game the number of Bonus Ball icons which appear is counted. For example if the game result illustrated in occurs in the free games portion 5 bonus slots are added to the accumulated bonus slots because 5 Bonus Ball icons appear. Referring to as the free games are being played the player is informed of how many free games remain and the total number of bonus slots which have been accumulated .

In the illustrated embodiment a maximum of 20 bonus slots may be accumulated during the free games portion of the feature game. One skilled in the art understands that a different maximum number of accumulated bonus slots or no maximum at all may be applied. In addition referring to three or more Bonus Ball icons appearing during the free games portion of the feature game pays the normal pay . However all Bonus Ball icons are counted as bonus slots even if no scatter win results. In the illustrated embodiment all wins during the free game portion of the feature game are multiplied by one. One skilled in the understands that another multiplier could be applied including a multiplier based on the total bet.

After the first portion of the feature game i.e. the free games portion a second bonus game portion is performed. In the bonus game portion at least one set of a predetermined number of target symbols is selected from a pool of bonus symbols. This set of target symbols is associated with a bonus award. In the illustrated embodiment the pool of bonus symbols contains the numbers from 1 to 40. The selection process randomly selects a number from the pool with each number having an equal probability of being selected. During the selection process selected bonus symbols are not removed from the pool. That is a number from the pool may appear multiple times within a set of target symbols. One skilled in the art understands that this can result in a set of target symbols including multiple occurrences of a symbol. I.e. a set of seven bonus symbols can include 3 3 3 3 3 3 and 3.

Referring to a first set of 7 target symbols 15 22 7 36 7 24 and 18 are associated with a bonus award 210 000. As may be seen the bonus symbol appears twice due to selected numbers not being removed from the pool as described in detail above. A second set of 6 target symbols 1 32 14 9 28 and 35 are associated with a bonus award 45 000 a third set of 5 target symbols 29 11 38 4 and 14 are associated with a bonus award 9 000 a fourth set of 4 target symbols 17 32 23 and 4 are associated with a bonus award of 3 000 and a fifth set of 3 target symbols 4 27 and 31 are associated with a bonus award of 1 050.

After the sets of bonus numbers have been drawn as described above match symbols are drawn. Also as described above during the free games portion of the feature game a number of bonus slots was accumulated. Match symbols equal in number to the accumulated number of bonus slots are selected from the same pool as the bonus symbols. During this selection process however selected numbers are removed from the pool. Each bonus symbol has an equal probability of being selected. As the match symbols are selected they are displayed to the player in a table .

When the match symbols have been selected they are compared to the sets of target symbols. If all the symbols in a set of target symbols correspond to respective match symbols then the bonus award associated with the set of target symbols is awarded to the player. Referring again to the set of 3 target symbols associated with the award of 1 050 are 4 27 and 31. Among the set of match symbols which have been selected are 4 27 and 31. Because all of the symbols in the set of target symbols associated with the award of 1 050 correspond to match symbols the award 1050 is awarded to the player.

As may be seen in 6 match symbols remain to be selected. If 17 32 and 23 are among the remaining match symbols selected then the set of 4 target symbols corresponds to respective selected match symbols and the associated award of 3 000 is awarded to the player in addition to the award of 1 050 as described above.

In accordance with one or more embodiments illustrates a gaming machine including cabinet housing primary game display upon which a primary game and feature game may be displayed top box which may display multiple progressives that may be won during play of the primary or feature game player activated buttons player tracking panel bill voucher acceptor and one or more speakers . Cabinet housing is a self standing unit that is generally rectangular in shape and may be manufactured with reinforced steel or other rigid materials which are resistant to tampering and vandalism. Cabinet housing houses a processor circuitry and software not shown for receiving signals from the player activated buttons operating the games and transmitting signals to the respective displays and speakers. Any shaped cabinet may be implemented with any embodiment of gaming machine so long as it provides access to a player for playing a game. For example cabinet may comprise a slant top bar top or table top style cabinet. The operation of gaming machine is described more fully below.

The plurality of player activated buttons may be used for various functions such as but not limited to selecting a wager denomination selecting a game to be played selecting a wager amount per game initiating a game or cashing out money from gaming machine . Buttons function as input mechanisms and may include mechanical buttons electromechanical buttons or touch screen buttons. Optionally a handle may be rotated by a player to initiate a game.

In other embodiments buttons may be replaced with various other input mechanisms known in the art such as but not limited to a touch screen system touch pad track ball mouse switches toggle switches or other input means used to accept player input. For example one input means is a universal button module as disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 106 212 entitled Universal Button Module filed on Apr. 14 2005 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference. Generally the universal button module provides a dynamic button system adaptable for use with various games and capable of adjusting to gaming systems having frequent game changes. More particularly the universal button module may be used in connection with playing a game on a gaming machine and may be used for such functions as selecting the number of credits to bet per hand. In other embodiments a virtual button deck may be used to provide similar capabilities. An example of a virtual button deck is disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 938 203 entitled Game Related Systems Methods and Articles That Combine Virtual and Physical Elements filed on Nov. 9 2007 hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

Cabinet housing may optionally include top box which contains top glass comprising advertising or payout information related to the game or games available on gaming machine . Player tracking panel includes player tracking card reader and player tracking display . Voucher printer may be integrated into player tracking panel or installed elsewhere in cabinet housing or top box .

Game display presents a game of chance wherein a player receives one or more outcomes from a set of potential outcomes. For example one such game of chance is a video slot machine game. In other aspects of the invention gaming machine may present a video or mechanical reel slot machine a video keno game a lottery game a bingo game a Class II bingo game a roulette game a craps game a blackjack game a mechanical or video representation of a wheel game or the like.

Mechanical or video mechanical embodiments may include game displays such as mechanical reels wheels or dice as required to present the game to the player. In video mechanical or pure video embodiments game display is typically a CRT or a flat panel display in the form of but not limited to liquid crystal plasma electroluminescent vacuum fluorescent field emission or any other type of panel display known or developed in the art. Game display may be mounted in either a portrait or landscape orientation and be of standard or widescreen dimensions i.e. a ratio of one dimension to another of at least 16 9 . For example a widescreen display may be 32 inches wide by 18 inches tall. A widescreen display in a portrait orientation may be 32 inches tall by 18 inches wide. Additionally game display preferably includes a touch screen or touch glass system not shown and presents player interfaces such as but not limited to credit meter not shown win meter not shown and touch screen buttons not shown . An example of a touch glass system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 942 571 entitled Gaming Device with Direction and Speed Control of Mechanical Reels Using Touch Screen which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Game display may also present information such as but not limited to player information advertisements and casino promotions graphic displays news and sports updates or even offer an alternate game. This information may be generated through a host computer networked with gaming machine on its own initiative or it may be obtained by request of the player using either one or more of the plurality of player activated buttons the game display itself if game display comprises a touch screen or similar technology buttons not shown mounted about game display which may permit selections such as those found on an ATM machine where legends on the screen are associated with respective selecting buttons or any player input device that offers the required functionality.

Cabinet housing incorporates a single game display . However in alternate embodiments cabinet housing or top box may house one or more additional displays or components used for various purposes including additional game play screens animated top glass progressive meters or mechanical or electromechanical devices not shown such as but not limited to wheels pointers or reels. The additional displays may or may not include a touch screen or touch glass system.

Referring to and electronic gaming machine is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments. Electronic gaming machine includes base game integrated circuit board EGM Processor Board connected through serial bus line to game monitoring unit GMU such as a Bally MC300 or ACSC NT and player interface integrated circuit board PIB connected to player interface devices over bus lines . Printer is connected to PIB and GMU over bus lines . EGM Processor Board PIB and GMU connect to Ethernet switch over bus lines . Ethernet switch connects to a slot management system SMS and a casino management system CMS network over bus line . GMU also may connect to the SMS and CMS network over bus line . Speakers connect through audio mixer and bus lines to EGM Processor Board and PIB . The proximity and biometric devices and circuitry may be installed by upgrading a commercially available PIB such as a Bally iView unit. Coding executed on EGM Processor Board PID and or GMU may be upgraded to integrate a game having an accumulation style feature game as is more fully described herein.

Peripherals connect through bus to EGM Processor Board . For example a bill ticket acceptor is typically connected to a game input output board which is in turn connected to a conventional central processing unit CPU board such as an Intel Pentium microprocessor mounted on a gaming motherboard. I O board may be connected to CPU processor board by a serial connection such as RS 232 or USB or may be attached to the processor by a bus such as but not limited to an ISA bus. The gaming motherboard may be mounted with other conventional components such as are found on conventional personal computer motherboards and loaded with a game program which may include a gaming machine operating system OS such as a Bally Alpha OS. Processor board executes a game program that causes processor board to play a game. In one embodiment the game program provides a slot machine game having an accumulation style feature game. The various components and included devices may be installed with conventionally and or commercially available components devices and circuitry into a conventional and or commercially available gaming machine cabinet examples of which are described above.

When a player has inserted a form of currency such as for example and without limitation paper currency coins or tokens cashless tickets or vouchers electronic funds transfers or the like into the currency acceptor a signal is sent by way of I O board to processor board which in turn assigns an appropriate number of credits for play in accordance with the game program. The player may further control the operation of the gaming machine by way of other peripherals for example to select the amount to wager via electromechanical or touch screen buttons. The game starts in response to the player operating a start mechanism such as a handle or touch screen icon. The game program includes a random number generator to provide a display of randomly selected indicia on one or more displays. In some embodiments the random generator may be physically separate from gaming machine for example it may be part of a central determination host system which provides random game outcomes to the game program. Thereafter the player may or may not interact with the game through electromechanical or touch screen buttons to change the displayed indicia. Finally processor board under control of the game program and OS compares the final display of indicia to a pay table. The set of possible game outcomes may include a subset of outcomes related to the triggering of a feature game. In the event the displayed outcome is a member of this subset processor board under control of the game program and by way of I O Board may cause feature game play to be presented on a feature display.

Predetermined payout amounts for certain outcomes including feature game outcomes are stored as part of the game program. Such payout amounts are in response to instructions from processor board provided to the player in the form of coins credits or currency via I O board and a pay mechanism which may be one or more of a credit meter a coin hopper a voucher printer an electronic funds transfer protocol or any other payout means known or developed in the art.

In various embodiments the game program is stored in a memory device not shown connected to or mounted on the gaming motherboard. By way of example but not by limitation such memory devices include external memory devices hard drives CD ROMs DVDs and flash memory cards. In an alternative embodiment the game programs are stored in a remote storage device. In one embodiment the remote storage device is housed in a remote server. The gaming machine may access the remote storage device via a network connection including but not limited to a local area network connection a TCP IP connection a wireless connection or any other means for operatively networking components together. Optionally other data including graphics sound files and other media data for use with the EGM are stored in the same or a separate memory device not shown . Some or all of the game program and its associated data may be loaded from one memory device into another for example from flash memory to random access memory RAM .

In one or more embodiments peripherals may be connected to the system over Ethernet connections directly to the appropriate server or tied to the system controller inside the EGM using USB serial or Ethernet connections. Each of the respective devices may have upgrades to their firmware utilizing these connections.

GMU includes an integrated circuit board and GMU processor and memory including coding for network communications such as the G2S game to system protocol from the Gaming Standards Association Las Vegas Nev. used for system communications over the network. As shown GMU may connect to card reader through bus and may thereby obtain player card information and transmit the information over the network through bus . Gaming activity information may be transferred by the EGM Processor Board to GMU where the information may be translated into a network protocol such as SS for transmission to a server such as a player tracking server where information about a player s playing activity may be stored in a designated server database.

PID includes an integrated circuit board PID processor and memory which includes an operating system such as Windows CE a player interface program which may be executable by the PID processor together with various input output I O drivers for respective devices which connect to PID such as player interface devices and which may further include various games or game components playable on PID or playable on a connected network server and PID is operable as the player interface. PID connects to card reader through bus display through video decoder and bus such as an LVDS or VGA bus.

As part of its programming the PID processor executes coding to drive display and provide messages and information to a player. Touch screen circuitry interactively connects display and video decoder to PID such that a player may input information and cause the information to be transmitted to PID either on the player s initiative or responsive to a query by PID . Additionally soft keys connect through bus to PID and operate together with display to provide information or queries to a player and receive responses or queries from the player. PID in turn communicates over the CMS SMS network through Ethernet switch and busses and with respective servers such as a player tracking server.

Player interface devices are linked into the virtual private network of the system components in gaming machine . The system components include the iVIEW processing board and game monitoring unit GMU processing board. These system components may connect over a network to the slot management system such as a commercially available Bally SDS SMS and or casino management system such as a commercially available Bally CMP CMS .

The GMU system component has a connection to the base game through a serial SAS connection and is connected to various servers using for example HTTPs over Ethernet. Through this connection firmware media operating system software gaming machine configurations can be downloaded to the system components from the servers. This data is authenticated prior to install on the system components.

The system components include the iVIEW processing board and game monitoring unit GMU processing board. The GMU and iVIEW can combined into one like the commercially available Bally GTM iVIEW device. This device may have a video mixing technology to mix the EGM processor s video signals with the iVIEW display onto the top box monitor or any monitor on the gaming device.

In accordance with one or more embodiments is a functional block diagram of a gaming kernel of a game program under control of processor board uses gaming kernel by calling into application programming interface API which is part of game manager . The components of game kernel as shown in are only illustrative and should not be considered limiting. For example the number of managers may be changed additional managers may be added or some managers may be removed without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention.

As shown in the example there are three layers a hardware layer an operating system layer such as but not limited to Linux and a game kernel layer having game manager therein. In one or more embodiments the use of a standard operating system such a UNIX based or Windows based operating system allows game developers interfacing to the gaming kernel to use any of a number of standard development tools and environments available for the operating systems. This is in contrast to the use of proprietary low level interfaces which may require significant time and engineering investments for each game upgrade hardware upgrade or feature upgrade. The game kernel layer executes at the user level of the operating system and itself contains a major component called the I O Board Server . To properly set the bounds of game application software making integrity checking easier all game applications interact with gaming kernel using a single API in game manager . This enables game applications to make use of a well defined consistent interface as well as making access points to gaming kernel controlled where overall access is controlled using separate processes.

For example game manager parses an incoming command stream and when a command dealing with I O comes in arrow the command is sent to an applicable library routine . Library routine decides what it needs from a device and sends commands to I O Board Server see arrow . A few specific drivers remain in operating system s kernel shown as those below line . These are built in primitive or privileged drivers that are i general ii kept to a minimum and iii are easier to leave than extract. In such cases the low level communications is handled within operating system and the contents passed to library routines .

Thus in a few cases library routines may interact with drivers inside operating system which is why arrow is shown as having three directions between library utilities and I O Board Server or between library utilities and certain drivers in operating system . No matter which path is taken the logic needed to work with each device is coded into modules in the user layer of the diagram. Operating system is kept as simple stripped down and common across as many hardware platforms as possible. The library utilities and user level drivers change as dictated by the game cabinet or game machine in which it will run. Thus each game cabinet or game machine may have an industry standard processor board connected to a unique relatively dumb and as inexpensive as possible I O adapter board plus a gaming kernel which will have the game machine unique library routines and I O Board Server components needed to enable game applications to interact with the gaming machine cabinet. Note that these differences are invisible to the game application software with the exception of certain functional differences i.e. if a gaming cabinet has stereo sound the game application will be able make use of API to use the capability over that of a cabinet having traditional monaural sound .

Game manager provides an interface into game kernel providing consistent predictable and backwards compatible calling methods syntax and capabilities by way of game application API . This enables the game developer to be free of dealing directly with the hardware including the freedom to not have to deal with low level drivers as well as the freedom to not have to program lower level managers although lower level managers may be accessible through game manager s interface if a programmer has the need. In addition to the freedom derived from not having to deal with the hardware level drivers and the freedom of having consistent callable object oriented interfaces to software managers of those components drivers game manager provides access to a set of upper level managers also having the advantages of consistent callable object oriented interfaces and further providing the types and kinds of base functionality required in casino type games. Game manager providing all the advantages of its consistent and richly functional interface as supported by the rest of game kernel thus provides a game developer with a multitude of advantages.

Game manager may have several objects within itself including an initialization object not shown . The initialization object performs the initialization of the entire game machine including other objects after game manager has started its internal objects and servers in appropriate order. In order to carry out this function the kernel s configuration manager is among the first objects to be started configuration manager has data needed to initialize and correctly configure other objects or servers.

The upper level managers of game kernel may include game event log manager which provides at the least a logging or logger base class enabling other logging objects to be derived from this base object. The logger object is a generic logger that is it is not aware of the contents of logged messages and events. The log manager s job is to log events in non volatile event log space. The size of the space may be fixed although the size of the logged event is typically not. When the event space or log space fills up one embodiment will delete the oldest logged event each logged event will have a time date stamp as well as other needed information such as length providing space to record the new event. In this embodiment the most recent events will thus be found in the log space regardless of their relative importance. Further provided is the capability to read the stored logs for event review.

In accordance with one embodiment meter manager manages the various meters embodied in the game kernel . This includes the accounting information for the game machine and game play. There are hard meters counters and soft meters the soft meters may be stored in non volatile storage such as non volatile battery backed RAM to prevent loss. Further a backup copy of the soft meters may be stored in a separate non volatile storage such as EEPROM. In one embodiment meter manager receives its initialization data for the meters during startup from configuration manager . While running the cash in and cash out managers call the meter manager s update functions to update the meters. Meter manager will on occasion create backup copies of the soft meters by storing the soft meters readings in EEPROM. This is accomplished by calling and using EEPROM manager .

In accordance with still other embodiments progressive manager manages progressive games playable from the game machine. Event manager is generic like log manager and is used to manage various gaming machine events. Focus manager correlates which process has control of various focus items. Tilt manager is an object that receives a list of errors if any from configuration manager at initialization and during game play from processes managers drivers etc. that may generate errors. Random number generator manager is provided to allow easy programming access to a random number generator RNG as a RNG is required in virtually all casino style gambling games. RNG manager includes the capability of using multiple seeds.

In accordance with one or more embodiments a credit manager object not shown manages the current state of credits cash value or cash equivalent in the game machine including any available winnings and further provides denomination conversion services. Cash out manager has the responsibility of configuring and managing monetary output devices. During initialization cash out manager using data from configuration manager sets the cash out devices correctly and selects any selectable cash out denominations. During play a game application may post a cash out event through the event manager the same way all events are handled and using a callback posted by cash out manager cash out manager is informed of the event. Cash out manager updates the credit object updates its state in non volatile memory and sends an appropriate control message to the device manager that corresponds to the dispensing device. As the device dispenses dispensable media there will typically be event messages being sent back and forth between the device and cash out manager until the dispensing finishes after which cash out manager having updated the credit manager and any other game state such as some associated with meter manager that needs to be updated for this set of actions sends a cash out completion event to event manager and to the game application thereby. Cash in manager functions similarly to cash out manager only controlling interfacing with and taking care of actions associated with cashing in events cash in devices and associated meters and crediting.

In a further example in accordance with one or more embodiments I O server may write data to the gaming machine EEPROM memory which is located in the gaming machine cabinet and holds meter storage that must be kept even in the event of power failure. Game manager calls the I O library functions to write data to the EEPROM. The I O server receives the request and starts a low priority EEPROM thread within I O server to write the data. This thread uses a sequence of 8 bit command and data writes to the EEPROM device to write the appropriate data in the proper location within the device. Any errors detected will be sent as IPC messages to game manager . All of this processing is asynchronous.

In accordance with one embodiment button module within I O server polls or is sent the state of buttons every two milliseconds. These inputs are debounced by keeping a history of input samples. Certain sequences of samples are required to detect a button was pressed in which case the I O server sends an inter process communication event to game manager that a button was pressed or released. In some embodiments the gaming machine may have intelligent distributed I O which debounces the buttons in which case button module may be able to communicate with the remote intelligent button processor to get the button events and simply relay them to game manager via IPC messages. In still another embodiment the I O library may be used for pay out requests from the game application. For example hopper module must start the hopper motor constantly monitor the coin sensing lines of the hopper debounce them and send an IPC message to the game manager when each coin is paid.

Further details including disclosure of lower level fault handling and or processing are included in U.S. Pat. No. 7 351 151 entitled Gaming Board Set and Gaming Kernal for Game Cabinets and provisional U.S. patent application No. 60 313 743 entitled Form Fitting Upgrade Board Set For Existing Game Cabinets filed Aug. 20 2001 said patent and provisional are both fully incorporated herein by explicit reference.

A logical flow diagram generally depicting the steps associated with a method for carrying out a game having an accumulation matching bonus feature game in accordance with the present invention is presented in . The order of actions as shown in is only illustrative and should not be considered limiting. For example the order of the actions may be changed additional steps may be added or some steps may be removed without deviating from the scope and spirit of the invention.

First at block a primary game play is initiated by a player as described above. In one embodiment the player places a wager and starts the game whereby a representation of a slot machine reel spin is displayed before stopping with particular indicia displayed to the player see . A win occurs if a series of indicia BAR BAR BAR for example appears on one or more pay lines or scattered as described above and the player may be paid for any winning symbol combinations at block . At block it is determined whether a feature game has been triggered. If not primary game play continued at block .

In the case where a feature game has been triggered as the result of a triggering event a feature game screen as described above with respect to and are displayed. As described above a first portion of a feature game is initiated in block . In the first portion of the feature game a predetermined number of free games are played. In the illustrated embodiment at least 10 free games are played with the possibility of additional free games being won during those free games up to a maximum of 50 free games.

During the free games the number of Bonus Ball icons appearing are accumulated up to a maximum of 20. In block the result of a free game is analyzed to determine how many Bonus Ball icons appear if any. If any appear the number is accumulated in block . In block a check is made to determine if any more free games remain. If so then the free game portion of the feature game is not over and block is performed again.

If the free game portion of the feature game is over then sets of target symbols are selected in block in a manner described in detail above. In block a set of match symbols is selected in a manner described in detail above. In block the sets of target symbols are compared to the set of match symbols. In block a check is made to determine if all the symbols in a set of target symbols correspond to respective symbols in the set of match symbols. If so then the bonus award associated with the set of target symbols is awarded to the player. Otherwise the feature game ends in block .

Referring to enterprise gaming system is shown in accordance with one or more embodiments. Enterprise gaming system may include one casino or multiple locations and generally includes a network of gaming machines floor management system SMS and casino management system CMS . SMS may include load balancer network services servers player interface iVIEW content servers certificate services server floor radio dispatch receiver transmitters RDC floor transaction servers and game engines each of which may connect over network bus to gaming machines . CMS may include location tracking server WRG RTCEM server data warehouse server player tracking server biometric server analysis services server third party interface server slot accounting server floor accounting server progressives server promo control server bonus game such as Bally Live Rewards server download control server player history database configuration management server browser manager tournament engine server connecting through bus to server host and gaming machines . The various servers and gaming machines may connect to the network with various conventional network connections such as for example USB serial parallel RS485 Ethernet . Additional servers which may be incorporated with CMS include a responsible gaming limit server not shown advertisement server not shown and a control station server not shown where an operator or authorized personnel may select options and input new programming to adjust each of the respective servers and gaming machines . SMS may also have additional servers including a control station not shown through which authorized personnel may select options modify programming and obtain reports of the connected servers and devices and obtain reports. The various CMS and SMS servers are descriptively entitled to reflect the functional executable programming stored thereon and the nature of databases maintained and utilized in performing their respective functions.

Gaming machines include various peripheral components that may be connected with USB serial parallel RS 485 or Ethernet devices architectures to the system components within the respective gaming machine. The GMU has a connection to the base game through a serial SAS connection. The system components in the gaming cabinet may be connected to the servers using HTTPs or G2S over Ethernet. Using CMS and or SMS servers and devices firmware media operating systems and configurations may be downloaded to the system components of respective gaming machines for upgrading or managing floor content and offerings in accordance with operator selections or automatically depending upon CMS and SMS master programming. The data and programming updates to gaming machines are authenticated using conventional techniques prior to install on the system components.

In various embodiments any of the gaming machines may be a mechanical reel spinning slot machine video slot machine video poker machine video bingo machine keno machine or a gaming machine offering one or more of the above described games including an accumulation style game. Alternately gaming machines may provide a game with an accumulation style feature game as one of a set of multiple primary games selected for play by a random number generator as described above. A gaming system of the type described above also allows a plurality of games in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention to be linked under the control of a group game server not shown for cooperative or competitive play in a particular area carousel casino or between casinos located in geographically separate areas. For example one or more examples of group games under control of a group game server are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 938 079 entitled Networked System and Method for Group Gaming filed on Nov. 9 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the claimed invention without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the claimed invention which is set forth in the following claims.

