---

title: Controlling virtual machine in cloud computing system
abstract: Described embodiments provide for controlling a plurality of virtual machines in a cloud computing system. At least one virtual storage allocated to the plurality of virtual machines may be monitored. Based on the monitoring result, a virtual storage in a service unable state may be detected among the monitored at least one virtual storage. A virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage may be temporarily interrupted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465636&OS=09465636&RS=09465636
owner: KT CORPORATION
number: 09465636
owner_city: Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120823
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Korean Patent Application No. 10 2011 0084837 filed on Aug. 24 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to cloud computing system and in particular to controlling virtual machines to access corresponding virtual storages.

A typical computing environment uses computing resources belonging to individual computing hardware in order to provide services to clients. With the development of computer network technology such a typical computing environment has evolved into a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may provide relevant services using available computing resources distributed over a network without end user knowledge of physical location and configuration of respective computing resources that deliver the services.

A cloud computing system may provide an on demand outsourced service of computing resources through an information telecommunication network such as the Internet. In a cloud computing system a service provider may virtually consolidate data centers distributed over a network to provide necessary services to end users. In the cloud computing service a user may not be required to buy or install computing resources including applications storage operating systems OS and or security software in a user equipment. Instead a user may select and simply use virtualized computing resources whenever a user desires.

Such a cloud computing system requires rapid elasticity for commonly sharing computing resources with a plurality of users and for dynamically acquiring and releasing computing resources in response to an on demand self service. In order to realize such a cloud computing system virtualization has been employed. Virtualization may be a technology for creating a virtual version of computing environments such as a computing processor an operating system a server a storage device and or network resources. That is virtualization may enable a plurality of users to share one physical system by creating multiple independent virtual machines using computing resources of the one physical system. Through virtualization limited computing resources can be efficiently operated and managed for a large scale data center and the utilization thereof can be maximized.

The cloud computing system may i create a plurality of independent virtual machines using single physical computing hardware and ii independently run an operating system and applications through each virtual machine. The virtual machine may be a virtual computing environment created with allocated hardware resources. For example such a virtual machine may be created and managed by a hypervisor. The hypervisor may be a software program installed in a physical server. The hypervisor may control and manage running operating systems and applications through a plurality of virtual machines. The hypervisor may be referred to as a virtual machine monitor VMM . The hypervisor may allow multiple operating systems to run concurrently on a host computer. Such multiple operation systems may be referred as guest operating systems.

Hardware resource virtualization may be classified into full virtualization and para virtualization. The full virtualization may be almost complete simulation of an actual hardware to allow software to run unmodified. In the full virtualization a hypervisor may support a virtual machine to directly control corresponding hardware without modification of a guest operating system. The guest operating system may denote an operating system running on a virtual machine. Unlike the full virtualization the para virtualization may not simulate a hardware environment. In the para virtualization a virtual machine cannot directly control corresponding hardware through a guest operating system. The virtual machine may request a hypervisor to control the corresponding hardware and the hypervisor may control the corresponding hardware through an optimized method. In order to indirectly control the hardware through the hypervisor a part of a kernel of a guest operating system may be required to be modified.

In such a para virtualization based cloud computing system a virtual machine may perform file input output operations through a hypervisor. During performing the file input output operations errors may be generated in a hypervisor level and or a storage level. For example errors may be generated in a network connecting the hypervisor and an associated virtual storage. Furthermore a storage device may be temporarily unavailable to provide a related service. In this case a file system of a guest operating system in a virtual machine may be seriously damaged or permanently corrupted.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that is further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is not intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the present invention overcome the above disadvantages and other disadvantages not described above. Also the present invention is not required to overcome the disadvantages described above and an embodiment of the present invention may not overcome any of the problems described above.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a virtual machine may be temporarily interrupted when an associated virtual storage is in a service unable state due to errors generated in a hypervisor level and or a storage level.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a file system of a virtual machine may be protected from serious damages in a related file system by temporarily pausing virtual computing resources of the virtual machine without releasing the virtual computing resources of the virtual machine.

In accordance with still another aspect of the present invention a consistency in a file system of a virtual machine may be maintained through temporarily interrupting processes performed in the virtual machine when errors are generated in a hypervisor level and or a storage level.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention a virtual storage in a service unable state may be continuously monitored and a paused virtual machine may be resumed after the service unable state of the monitored virtual storage is changed to a service ready state.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention a method may be provided for controlling a plurality of virtual machines in a cloud computing system. The method may include monitoring at least one virtual storage allocated to the plurality of virtual machines detecting a virtual storage in a service unable state among the monitored at least one virtual storage and temporarily interrupting a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage.

The monitoring may include detecting errors generated at one of a hypervisor level connection and a storage level connection based on a result of the monitoring and determining a virtual storage associated to the detected errors as the virtual storage in the service unable state.

The interrupting a virtual machine may includes determining a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage and pausing virtual computing resources allocated to the determined virtual machine without returning the virtual computing resources.

The interrupting a virtual machine may include determining a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage and pausing processes performed in the determined virtual machine without returning the virtual computing resources. The processes may be related to accessing the at least one virtual storage.

The method may further include monitoring the detected virtual storage in the service unable state determining whether the service unable state of the monitored virtual storage is changed to a service ready state based on the monitoring result and resuming the interrupted virtual machine associated with the monitored virtual storage when the service unable state is changed to the service ready state.

The method may further include continuously allowing virtual machines not associated with the at least one virtual storage in the service unable state.

The cloud computing system may include a storage a hypervisor and a storage interface. The storage may be configured to provide a plurality of virtual storages to the plurality of virtual machines. The hypervisor may be configured to allocate the plurality of virtual storage of the storage to the plurality of virtual machines and to control the allocated virtual storages in response to request of the plurality of virtual machines. The storage interface may be configured to provide an interface to the hypervisor to access the plurality of virtual storages allocated to the plurality of virtual machines. The detecting may include detecting errors generated in a network connecting the hypervisor and the storage a network between the storage interface and the storage and a network between the storage interface and the hypervisor.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention an apparatus may be provided for controlling a plurality of virtual machines in a cloud computing system. The cloud computing system may include a storage providing a plurality of virtual storages to the plurality of virtual machine a hypervisor controlling the storage and the plurality of virtual machine and a storage interface providing an interface to the hypervisor and the apparatus to access the plurality of virtual storages of the storage. The apparatus may include a monitor unit and a control unit. The monitor unit may be configured to monitor at least one virtual storage allocated to the plurality of virtual machines. The control unit may be configured to detect a virtual storage in a service unable state among the monitored at least one virtual storage and to temporarily interrupt a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage.

The monitor unit may be configured to detect errors generated at one of a hypervisor level connection and a storage level connection based on the monitoring result and to determine a virtual storage associated to the detected errors as the virtual storage in the service unable state.

The control unit may be configured to determine a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage and to pause virtual computing resources allocated to the determined virtual machine without returning the virtual computing resources.

The control unit may be configured to determine a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage and to pause processes performed in the determined virtual machine without returning the virtual computing resources. The processes may be related to accessing the at least one virtual storage.

The monitor unit may be configured to monitor the detected virtual storage in the service unable state. The control unit may be configured to determine whether the service unable state of the monitored virtual storage is changed to a service ready state based on the monitoring result and to resume the interrupted virtual machine associated with the monitored virtual storage when the service unable state is changed to the service ready state.

The control unit may be configured to continuously allow virtual machines not associated with the at least one virtual storage in the service unable state.

The monitor unit may be configured to detect errors generated in a network connecting the hypervisor and the storage a network between the storage interface and the storage and a network between the storage interface and the hypervisor.

The apparatus may be embodied as a module in the hypervisor. The monitor unit and the control unit may be embodied using application programming interfaces API of the hypervisor.

In accordance with still another embodiment of the present invention provided is a non transitory machine readable storage medium having encoded thereon program code wherein where the program code is executed by a machine the machine implements a method of controlling a plurality of virtual machines in a cloud computing system. The non transitory machine readable storage medium may include the steps of monitoring at least one virtual storage allocated to the plurality of virtual machines detecting a virtual storage in a service unable state among the monitored at least one virtual storage and temporarily interrupting a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the present invention an apparatus may be provided for controlling virtual machines in a cloud computing system. The apparatus may include a monitor unit and a control unit. The monitor unit may be configured to monitor a plurality of virtual storages through a storage interface. The storage interface may be configured to be allocated to the virtual machines and provide an interface to the virtual machines to access corresponding virtual storages. The control unit may be configured to detect virtual storages in a service unable state among the plurality of virtual storages based on the monitoring result. The control unit may be configured to interrupt processes performed by virtual machines associated with the detected virtual storages without returning computing resources of the associated virtual machines.

The monitor unit may be configured to monitor the detected virtual storages in the service unable state. The control unit may be configured to determine whether a state of each of the detected virtual storages is changed to a service ready state based on the monitoring result. When the state is changed from the service unable state to the service ready state the control unit may be configured to resume the interrupted processes of a virtual machine associated with the virtual storage changing the service unable state to the service ready state.

The monitor unit and the control unit may be embodied as a module on a hypervisor that allocates the plurality of virtual storages to the virtual machines and control the plurality of virtual storages through the storage interface in response to requests from the virtual machines.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the present invention a method for managing a plurality of virtual machines in a cloud computing system that provides a virtualized computing environment to a client through the plurality of virtual machines. The method may include monitoring the plurality of virtual storages respectively allocated to the plurality of virtual machines through a storage subsystem that provides an interface to the plurality of virtual machines to access the allocated virtual storages determining whether the monitored virtual storages are in a service unable state or not detecting a virtual storage in the service unable state from the monitored virtual storage based on the determination result and interrupting processes of a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage without returning computing resources of the virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage.

The method may further include monitoring the detected virtual storage in the service unable state determining whether the service unable state of the detected virtual storage is changed to a service ready state based on the monitoring result and resuming the interrupted processes of the virtual machine when the service unable state of the detected virtual storage is changed to the service ready state.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain the present invention by referring to the figures.

In order to protect a file system of a virtual machine in a para virtualization based cloud computing system a virtual storage allocated to the virtual machine may be monitored whether the allocated virtual storage is in a service unable state in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. When the allocated virtual storage is in the service unable state the virtual machine may temporarily be interrupted without returning virtual computing resources of the virtual machines in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The virtual storage in the service unable state may be continuously monitored. When the service unable state is changed to a service ready state the interrupted virtual machine may resume in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Such operations may be performed through a virtual machine control apparatus in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Hereinafter the virtual machine control apparatus will be described with reference to .

Referring to cloud computing system may include storage hypervisor virtual machine control unit storage interface and plurality of virtual machines . Cloud computing system may be implemented through para virtualization but the present invention is not limited thereto.

Storage may provide virtual storages to plurality of virtual machines in response to the control of hypervisor . The virtual storages may be one of virtual computing resources provided in cloud computing system . Storage may be a disk array including a plurality of disks. The present invention however is not limited thereto. Storage may be a storage server and or a storage pool which may include multiple storage devices coupled through a communication network or an interbus connection.

Hypervisor may be a virtual platform for running a plurality of virtual machines in single physical computing equipment. Hypervisor may be referred to as a virtual machine monitor VMM . In accordance with embodiments of the present invention hypervisor may allocate virtual storages of storage to one or more of plurality of virtual machines and control the allocated virtual storages in response to requests of virtual machines .

Storage interface may be an interface between storage and hypervisor or between storage and virtual machine control unit . Particularly storage interface may provide an interface to hypervisor and virtual machine control unit in order to access virtual storages allocated to one or more of plurality of virtual machines . Storage interface may be referred to as a storage subsystem or a disk subsystem. For example a network file system NFS and or internet small computer system interface ISCSI may be used as a protocol between storage interface and hypervisor or between storage interface and virtual machine control unit .

Virtual machine control unit may be coupled between storage interface and hypervisor . Virtual machine control unit may control a plurality of virtual machines to access corresponding virtual storages allocated thereto in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Virtual machine control unit may protect a file system of each virtual machine from errors generated in a hypervisor level and a storage level. For example virtual machine control unit may allow virtual machines to access corresponding virtual storages allocated thereto when the corresponding virtual storages are in a service ready state. That is errors are not detected in a hypervisor level and or a storage level virtual machine control unit may enable virtual machines to perform file input output operation to storage through hypervisor . On the contrary virtual machine control unit may temporarily interrupt or pause virtual machines without returning or releasing virtual computing resources allocated to the virtual machine when the corresponding virtual storages of storage are in a service unable state due to errors in a hypervisor level and or storage level. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention virtual machine control unit may include monitor unit and control unit .

Monitor unit may monitor virtual storages allocated to each virtual machine and determine through storage interface whether the allocated virtual storage is in a service unable state or not. Furthermore monitor unit may continuously monitor the virtual storages in the service unable state and transfer the monitoring result to control unit . For example monitor unit may monitor a connection state in a hypervisor level and or a connection state in a storage level in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

Control unit may be provided with the monitoring result from monitor unit . Based on the monitoring result control unit may detect a virtual storage in a service unable state among the virtual storages allocated to virtual machines . For example control unit may determine whether errors are generated in a connection state in a hypervisor level and or a connection state in a storage level based on the monitoring results of monitor unit . When control unit determines that errors are generated control unit may detect a virtual storage associated with the error and determine that the detected virtual storage is in the service unable state. Control unit may determine a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage and temporarily interrupt the determined virtual machine without returning virtual computing resources of associated virtual machine in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Furthermore control unit may resume the interrupted virtual machine when the detected virtual storage is changed from the service unable state to a service ready state based on the monitoring result provided from monitor unit in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

A virtual storage may be temporarily unavailable to provide a file input output service to virtual machines when a virtual storage is in the service unable state. Such service unable state of a virtual storage may be caused by errors that might be generated while storage provides a related service to virtual machines . Such errors may be generated in various elements related to storage in cloud computing system . For example such error may be generated in storage in hypervisor in a network connecting hypervisor and storage in a network between storage interface and storage or a network between storage interface and hypervisor . That is various types of errors may be generated in a hypervisor level and or a storage level.

If virtual machines continuously request a file input output service to a virtual storage in the service unable state through hypervisor hypervisor may instruct storage to provide the requested service to virtual machine . In this case virtual machines may be not properly provided with the requested file input output services from storage . Such requests and instructions may cause damage in a file system of the virtual storage of storage . Due to such damage consistency of the file system of the virtual storage may be not maintained thereby seriously corrupting entire file system.

For example when a virtual machine has a Linux ext3 partition file system and when the virtual machine requests a random read write service to the allocated virtual storage in the service unable state the Linux ext3 partition file system of the allocated virtual machine may switch to a read only mode or a root file system of the Linux ext3 partition file system may be seriously damaged. Particularly when the root file system is damaged such a virtual machine may become malfunctioned.

After the detection of each virtual storage in the service unable state controller may temporarily interrupt a corresponding virtual machine without returning virtual computing resources belonging to the corresponding virtual machine. For example virtual computing resources of the corresponding virtual machine may be a memory a central processor unit CPU and network resources. Controller may temporarily pause the virtual computing resources allocated to the corresponding virtual machine. That is related processes performed in the corresponding virtual machine may be paused until the detected virtual storages are changed from the service unable state to a service ready state.

After the interruption controller may request monitor unit to continuously monitor the virtual storage in the service unable state at a regular interval. Such interval may be shorter than about 10 seconds. The present invention however is not limited thereto. When monitor unit determines that the virtual storage is changed from the service unable state to the service ready state controller may resume the interrupted virtual machine. That is the temporarily interrupted virtual computing resources of the virtual machine may be resumed thereby continuously performing the paused processes of the virtual machine.

According to a related simulation test an average duration of temporarily interrupting the virtual machine may be shorter than about 5 seconds. Although a corresponding service is not provided during about 5 seconds a critical damage in a file system may be prevented in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention virtual machine control unit may be a constituent element of cloud computing system . Virtual machine control unit may be embodied as a hardware device including a programmable logical circuit and other electronic circuits. The programmable logical circuit may include at least one of a digital signal processor DSP controller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and a field programmable gate array FPGA . Furthermore at least one of constituent elements of virtual machine control unit may be embodied as a software program. Such a software program may be recorded in a computer readable medium. In addition functions and features of virtual machine control unit may be embodied as a combination of software programs and hardware devices.

Although virtual machine control unit is illustrated as an independent virtual machine in cloud computing system as shown in the present invention is not limited thereto. Virtual machine control unit may be realized in other constituent elements in cloud computing system . For example virtual machine control unit may be implemented in hypervisor . Accordingly monitor unit and controller may be embodied as a module in hypervisor in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In this case such modules may be coupled to storage interface through a network and or a local system bus.

Particularly monitor unit and controller may be operated as a daemon process performed through a script for example an application programming interface API that is provided from hypervisor . When Xen is implemented as hypervisor functions and features of virtual machine control unit may be realized through Xen application program interfaces APIs . Xen may be free software developed by the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory. Xen may provide various types of APIs that control and manage virtual computing resources in cloud computing system particularly a hypervisor. The API may be from a set of remote procedure call RPC . For example features and functions of monitor unit may be realized using at least one of a RPC probe and a RPC scan. The RPC probe may be a RPC associated with class storage repository SR . The RPC probe may perform a backend specific scan using a given device config. If the device config is complete then the RPC probe may return a list of the SRs presents of this type on the device if any. If the device config is partial then a backend specific scan will be performed and return a result. The RPC scan may scan interfaces on a host and create PIF objects to represent the interfaces. The PIF objects may denote physical network interface objects. Particularly the RPC scan may be used to determine whether errors are generated in a hypervisor level. Furthermore a storage appliance API SA API may be used to implement the features and functions of monitor unit . For example a SA API get connection may be used to determine whether errors are generated in a storage level. The SA API get connection may get all connections for a given ISCSI session between an initiator and a specific target.

Features and functions of control unit may be realized using a RPC pause and or a RPC unpause. The RPC pause may pause a specific virtual machine. The RPC unpause may resume a specific virtual machine. The PRC unpause may be called when the specific virtual machine is paused.

The described RPC and SA API may be only examples of implementing features and functions of virtual machine control unit . The present invention however is not limited thereto. Scripts in various formats may be used to implement the functions and features of virtual machine control unit .

As described virtual machine control unit may detect a virtual storage in a service unable state and interrupt a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Such operations of virtual machine control unit will be described with reference to .

Referring to virtual storages allocated to virtual machines may be monitored at step S. For example hypervisor may allocate at least one virtual storage included in storage to virtual machine . After the allocation hypervisor may manage the allocated virtual storages in response to request from the corresponding virtual machine. The allocated virtual storage may provide a related service to corresponding virtual machine through hypervisor . While providing such service virtual machine control unit may monitor the allocated virtual storage for detecting a virtual storage in a service unable state. Such operation may be performed through monitor unit and control unit . For example monitor unit may check connection states and operation states related to storage . Particularly a connection state in a hypervisor level and or a connection state in a storage level will be monitored to determine whether errors are generated in the hypervisor level and or the storage level in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

At step S a virtual storage in a service unable state may be detected based on the monitoring result. For example control unit of virtual machine control unit may receive the monitoring result from monitor unit and determine errors are generated in a connection state in a storage level and a connection state in a hypervisor level. When errors are generated control unit may detect a virtual storage associated with the generated errors and determine the detected virtual storage in a service unable state based on the monitoring result.

When no virtual storage in a service unable state is detected No S the virtual machines may be continuously allowed to access virtual storages and to perform related processes at step S and the allocated virtual storages may be continuously monitored at step S. For example when control unit detects no virtual storage in the service unable state control unit may request hypervisor to continuously allow virtual machines to access virtual storages of storage and to perform file input output services and request monitor unit to continuously monitor the allocated virtual storages.

When a virtual storage in a service unable state is detected among the allocated virtual storage Yes S a virtual machine associated with the detected virtual storage may be determined and a related process of the detected virtual machine may be interrupted at step S. For example when control unit detects one of the allocated virtual storages in the service unable state control unit may determine a virtual machine allocated with the detected virtual storage. Then control unit may temporarily interrupt virtual computing resources used in the determined virtual machine. In this case control unit may not return or release the virtual computing resources of the determined virtual machine. Such interruption may be freezing or pausing the related virtual computing resources of the determined virtual machine. For example all processes related to the determined virtual machine may be interrupted paused or frozen. The present invention however is not limited thereto. Only processes related to the virtual storage allocated to the determined virtual machine may be interrupted paused or frozen. Accordingly the file system of the virtual machine may be protected from damaging caused by errors generated during the related processes. Therefore the file system of the virtual machine may maintain consistency after resuming the interrupted virtual computing resources.

At step S the detected virtual storages may be monitored at a regular interval. For example monitor unit may continuously monitor the virtual storages in the service unable state and determine whether a state of the virtual storage is changed to a service ready state or not.

At step S determination may be made as to whether the state of the monitored virtual storage is changed or not. For example control unit may determine whether the state of the monitored virtual storage is changed or not based on the monitoring result.

When the state of the monitored virtual storage is not changed to the service ready state No S the virtual storages in the service unable state may be continuously monitored at step S. For example control unit may request monitor unit to continuously monitor the virtual storages in the service unable state.

When the state of the monitored virtual storage is changed to the service ready state Yes S the interrupted virtual machine may be resumed at step S. For example control unit may resume the interrupted virtual computing resources of the related virtual machine. That is the paused virtual machine may be resumed to access the virtual storage and to perform processes related to the virtual storage changing the state to the service ready state. Accordingly the virtual machine may continuously perform the paused process without damaging the file system of the virtual machine and the consistency of the file system of the virtual machine may be safely protected from the generated errors.

As described above the file system of the virtual machine may be protected from errors generated in a hypervisor level and or a storage level in para virtualization based cloud computing system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

Reference herein to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments necessarily mutually exclusive of other embodiments. The same applies to the term implementation. 

As used in this application the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Additionally the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover the terms system component module interface model or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The present invention can be embodied in the form of methods and apparatuses for practicing those methods. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of program code embodied in tangible media non transitory media such as magnetic recording media optical recording media solid state memory floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a machine or transmitted over some transmission medium or carrier such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code segments combine with the processor to provide a unique device that operates analogously to specific logic circuits. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of a bitstream or other sequence of signal values electrically or optically transmitted through a medium stored magnetic field variations in a magnetic recording medium etc. generated using a method and or an apparatus of the present invention.

It should be understood that the steps of the exemplary methods set forth herein are not necessarily required to be performed in the order described and the order of the steps of such methods should be understood to be merely exemplary. Likewise additional steps may be included in such methods and certain steps may be omitted or combined in methods consistent with various embodiments of the present invention.

As used herein in reference to an element and a standard the term compatible means that the element communicates with other elements in a manner wholly or partially specified by the standard and would be recognized by other elements as sufficiently capable of communicating with the other elements in the manner specified by the standard. The compatible element does not need to operate internally in a manner specified by the standard.

No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or step for. 

Although embodiments of the present invention have been described herein it should be understood that the foregoing embodiments and advantages are merely examples and are not to be construed as limiting the present invention or the scope of the claims. Numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art that will fall within the spirit and scope of the principles of this disclosure and the present teaching can also be readily applied to other types of apparatuses. More particularly various variations and modifications are possible in the component parts and or arrangements of the subject combination arrangement within the scope of the disclosure the drawings and the appended claims. In addition to variations and modifications in the component parts and or arrangements alternative uses will also be apparent to those skilled in the art.

