---

title: Methods and devices for facilitating presentation feedback
abstract: Methods and devices for facilitating presentation feedback during a local presentation are provided. In example embodiments, the local presentation includes an electronic presentation displayed on a display associated with a presentation device. In one aspect, the method comprises: providing a feedback interface for the electronic presentation and allowing one or more mobile communication devices to access the feedback interface; receiving at the feedback interface, feedback information from one or more of the mobile communication devices; and updating the electronic presentation based on the received feedback information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264245&OS=09264245&RS=09264245
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09264245
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120227
---
The present disclosure relates to presentations which include an electronic presentation such as a slide presentation more particularly to methods and devices for facilitating audience feedback during such presentations.

Local presentations also referred to herein as in person presentations often utilize an electronic presentation such as an electronic slideshow. For example PowerPoint presentations are slideshow based presentations which are commonly presented in front of a live audience. The live audience is often located in a common area such as a common room which is also occupied by the presenter and in which the audience can view a display which displays the electronic presentation.

In such environments audience members traditionally provide feedback to the presenter by interrupting the presenter and verbally communicating their feedback. For example it is common for audience members to raise their hand to get the attention of the presenter. The presenter then typically calls upon the audience member with the raised hand and allows them to communicate their feedback. This process is obtrusive since it requires the presenter to interrupt their presentation. Furthermore the presenter must recognize that someone in the audience has feedback and then call upon that person to provide their feedback. In some circumstances the presenter may not realize that the audience member wishes to provide feedback and may simply continue the presentation without the feedback from the audience member.

Thus traditional methods of providing feedback during an in person presentation may result in feedback not being received or when feedback is received the feedback may interfere with the flow of the presentation.

In one example aspect the present disclosure describes a method of facilitating presentation feedback during a local presentation. The local presentation includes an electronic presentation. The electronic presentation is configured for display on a display associated with a presentation device. The method includes providing a feedback interface for the electronic presentation and allowing one or more mobile communication devices to access the feedback interface receiving at the feedback interface feedback information from one or more of the mobile communication devices and updating the electronic presentation based on the received feedback information.

In another example aspect the present disclosure describes a presentation device. The presentation device includes a display interface and a communication interface for communicating with one or more mobile communication devices. The presentation device also includes a processor and a memory. The memory contains computer readable instructions for causing the processor to provide a feedback interface for an electronic presentation and allow one or more mobile communication devices to access the feedback interface receive at the feedback interface feedback information from one or more of the mobile communication devices and update the electronic presentation based on the received feedback information.

In yet another example aspect the present disclosure describes a feedback interface server. The feedback interface server includes one or more communication interfaces for communicating with one or more mobile communication devices and a presentation device. The feedback interface server also includes a processor and a memory containing computer readable instructions for causing the processor to provide a feedback interface for an electronic presentation and allow one or more mobile communication devices to access the feedback interface receive at the feedback interface feedback information from one or more of the mobile communication devices and update the electronic presentation based on the received feedback information.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates an example feedback providing system . The feedback providing system is configured to allow an audience for an in person presentation to provide feedback to the presenter of that presentation. The feedback providing system includes one or more feedback providing devices to effectively communicate with a presentation device to provide feedback to the presentation device .

The feedback providing devices may be deployed among audience members in the presentation. That is in at least some example embodiments the presentation may be an in person presentation in which the presenter is delivering a presentation to a local audience. In at least some example embodiments the feedback providing devices which are deployed among the audience members may be mobile communication devices . Such mobile communication devices may for example be smartphones and or tablet computers. In at least some example embodiments one or more of the feedback providing devices may be traditional computers such as laptops computers. The feedback providing devices may be deployed within the acoustical range of the presenter giving the presentation so that for example feedback may be provided regarding the acoustics of the presentation. However in at least some example embodiments the acoustical range may be enhanced using one or more speakers. In such example embodiments the feedback providing devices may be deployed within the acoustical range of the speakers. Example feedback providing devices will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

The example feedback providing system of includes a presentation device . The presentation device may be a computing device such as a laptop desktop notebook or tablet style computer. In at least some example embodiments the presentation device may be a mobile communication device of the type described below with reference to . As will be described in greater detail below with reference to the presentation device may include a presentation application which is configured to provide an electronic presentation. The electronic presentation may for example be an electronic slide presentation such as a PowerPoint presentation. In such example embodiments the presentation application may be referred to as a slide presentation application. The presentation application may be configured to allow a presenter to prepare a presentation e.g. to prepare slides for the presentation . The presentation application may also allow a presenter to display the presentation on one or more displays .

In at least some example embodiments the presentation device may include or be connected to an audience display . The audience display is a display which is generally configured to be viewed by the audience of the presentation. The presentation device may also include or be connected to a presenter display . The presenter display may in at least some example embodiments be smaller than the audience display . In at least some example embodiments the presentation application may be configured to display content on the presenter display which is not displayed on the audience display . For example the presentation application may be configured to display private information for the presenter which may not be viewed by the audience. Such private information may include for example speaker notes. Speaker notes are notes which may be useful to the person delivering the presentation but which are not meant for viewing by the audience. Accordingly the electronic presentation which is displayed on the audience display may be different from the electronic presentation which is displayed on the presenter display. That is in some example embodiments the presenter display may display information which is not displayed on the audience display .

The presentation device may be configured to receive feedback information from the feedback providing devices and to update an electronic presentation displayed on one or more of the displays based on that feedback information. For example in at least some example embodiments the presenter display may be updated based on the feedback information. In at least some example embodiments the audience display may be updated based on the feedback information.

In at least some example embodiments the feedback providing system includes a feedback interface server . The feedback interface server may act as an intermediary between the feedback providing devices and the presentation device . For example the feedback interface server may communicate with the feedback providing devices and may also communicate with the presentation device . The feedback interface server may provide a feedback interface which allows the feedback providing devices to communicate feedback information to the feedback interface server . The feedback interface may for example be a front end to the feedback interface server for the electronic presentation on the presentation device .

The feedback interface may be associated with a specific electronic presentation on the presentation device . The feedback interface may for example be a web portal such as a webpage which allows the feedback providing devices to access the feedback interface server in order to provide feedback. In at least some example embodiments the feedback interface server is a web server. The feedback interface server may in at least some example embodiments host a plurality of feedback interfaces . That is the feedback interface server may allow feedback information to be received for a plurality of electronic presentations. Feedback information which is received at the feedback interface server may include identifying information such as login information which allows the feedback interface server to determine which electronic presentation the feedback information is associated with. The feedback interface server will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

In the example embodiment of the feedback providing devices connect to the feedback interface server via a network . Similarly in the example embodiment shown the feedback interface server connects to the presentation device via the network . The network may include a private network or a public network such as the Internet. In other example embodiments the network may not be utilized. Instead the feedback providing devices may connect to the feedback interface server via a more direct connection. Similarly in some example embodiments the feedback interface server may connect to the presentation device via a more direct connection.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an example feedback providing device . The feedback providing device is an electronic device. In the illustrated example embodiment the feedback providing device is a mobile communication device . In at least some example embodiments the mobile communication device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile communication device in various example embodiments the mobile communication device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a tablet computer such as a slate computer a wearable computer such as a watch a PDA personal digital assistant or a computer system.

A smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example a smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

A tablet computer which may also be referred to as a tablet is a mobile communication device which is generally larger than a mobile phone such as a smartphone or personal digital assistant. Many mobile phones or personal digital assistants are designed to be pocket sized. That is mobile phones or personal digital assistants are generally small enough to be carried by a person easily often in a shirt or pant pocket while tablet computers are larger and may not fit within pant pockets. For example many tablet computers have a height which is seven inches 7 or more. In some example embodiments the tablet computer may be a slate computer. A slate computer is a tablet computer which does not include a dedicated keyboard. A slate computer may allow for text input through the use of a virtual keyboard or an external keyboard which connects to the slate computer via a wired or wireless connection.

In other example embodiments the mobile communication device may be of a type not specifically listed above.

The mobile communication device includes a housing not shown which houses components of the mobile communication device . Internal components of the mobile communication device may be constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The mobile communication device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the mobile communication device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The wireless network may include or be connected to the network of The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons one or more biosensors one or more microphones and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display which may be a liquid crystal display LCD one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The mobile communication device may include a touchscreen display in some example embodiments. The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile communication device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the mobile communication device is intended to operate.

The mobile communication device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile communication device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile communication device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a pointing or navigational tool input device such as a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the mobile communication device such as receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some example embodiments the mobile communication device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory and a memory module interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile communication device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the mobile communication device .

The mobile communication device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the mobile communication device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile communication device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile communication device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the mobile communication device memory.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system. The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile communication device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile communication device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the mobile communication device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their mobile communication device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the mobile communication device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer for processing.

The mobile communication device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile communication device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile communication device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile communication device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the mobile communication device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile communication device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the mobile communication device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or webpage download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded webpage may be further processed by a web browser or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile communication device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using an input interface in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile communication device provides telephony functions and may operate as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile communication device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules may include operating system software and one or more additional applications or modules such as a feedback providing module . In the example embodiment of the feedback providing module is implemented as a separate stand alone application but in other example embodiments the feedback providing module could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application .

The feedback providing module may be configured to allow the mobile communication device to connect to a feedback interface of and and to provide feedback information to the feedback interface of or . In at least some example embodiments the feedback providing module is a web browser which is configured to provide feedback information via a web page. However in other example embodiments the feedback providing module is a more specialized module which is designed specifically for the purpose of providing feedback information.

The mobile communication device may include a range of additional software applications including for example a notepad application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

As noted above in at least some example embodiments the mobile communication device includes or may be connected to a biosensor . The biosensor is configured to obtain information about a user of the mobile communication device . For example the biosensor may be configured to obtain health information about a user of the mobile communication device . In some example embodiments the biosensor is a heartbeat sensor which obtains heartbeat data from a user. In at least some example embodiments the feedback providing module is configured to provide the biosensor data to the feedback interface of or . That is the biosensor data may act as feedback information during a presentation.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example presentation device . The presentation device is configured to assist a presenter by displaying an electronic presentation . More particularly the presentation device may be configured to display an electronic presentation on one or more displays associated with the presentation device. In at least some example embodiments the presentation device is a laptop computer. In other example embodiments the presentation device is a desktop computer. In yet another example embodiment the presentation device may be a smartphone or other mobile communication device such as the mobile communication device described above with reference to . The presentation device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above.

The presentation device includes a controller including one or more processors which controls the overall operation of the presentation device . The presentation device may also include a memory which is communicably connected to the processor . The memory may be configured to provide data stored in the memory to the processor . For example the memory may include computer readable instructions for causing the processor to perform a method such as for example one or more of the methods described below with reference to . The memory may also store other data not specifically referred to herein.

While the memory is illustrated as a single component it will typically include multiple memory components of various types. For example the memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD flash memory or other types of memory. It will be appreciated that each of the various memory types will be best suited for different purposes and applications.

The processor may operate under stored program control and may execute software modules stored on the memory . The software modules may in at least some example embodiments include a presentation application . The presentation application is an application which is configured to create and or display an electronic presentation which may be stored in memory of the presentation device . In at least some example embodiments the presentation application is a slide presentation application which is configured to display an electronic slide presentation. The electronic presentation may in some example embodiments be organized as a series of slides. The electronic presentation may include for example graphics text video animations or other features not specifically listed above. By way of example in at least some example embodiments the presentation application may be a PowerPoint application or another presentation application which provides functions and features which are similar to the PowerPoint application. In at least some example embodiments the presentation application or another application or module on the memory may be configured to update a displayed electronic presentation based on feedback information received from a feedback providing device of . For example the presentation application may be configured to display feedback information so that such information is viewable by the presenter. The display of such feedback information and other methods of updating the electronic presentation based on the feedback information will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

The presentation application may be configured to allow a user of the presentation device to create an electronic presentation . More particularly the presentation application may include tools and features which allow a user to define the content and layout of the electronic presentation . By way of example and not limitation a user may be permitted to input text or graphics onto slides and to specify playback information such as the manner in which such text or graphics will be displayed or the playback speed of the presentation.

In at least some example embodiments the presentation application may be configured to utilize multiple displays . More particularly the presentation application may in a least some example embodiments be configured to display the electronic presentation on an audience display associated with the presentation device . The audience display is a display which is meant to be viewed by the audience e.g. people who may be in the same room as the presenter but who are not themselves the presenter . The presentation application may also be configured to display a presenter view of the electronic presentation on a presenter display . The presenter display is a display which is configured to be viewed by the presenter but not by the audience. That is the presenter display is configured to be viewed by a person or persons who are themselves presenters of the presentation. The presenter view which is displayed on the presenter display may include one or more features which are not displayed on the audience display . For example in at least some example embodiments the presenter display displays speaker notes. Speaker notes are talking points or other cues for the presenter which are not intended to be viewed by the audience and are not displayed on the audience display .

As will be described in greater detail below with reference to in at least some example embodiments the presenter display may be updated based on the feedback information received from a feedback providing device . That is the electronic presentation displayed on the presenter display may be updated based on the feedback information i.e. the presenter view may be updated . In at least some example embodiments the audience display may be updated based on the feedback information. That is in at least some example embodiments the electronic presentation displayed on the audience display may be updated based on the feedback information received from the feedback providing device i.e. an audience view may be updated . However in at least some example embodiments only the presenter display may be updated based on the feedback information. That is in at least some example embodiments the audience will not be permitted to see feedback information or information derived from the feedback information. In at least some example embodiments the audience display is not updated based on the feedback information.

The electronic presentation may in at least some example embodiments be stored in memory of the presentation device . However in other example embodiments the electronic presentation may be stored elsewhere. For example the electronic presentation may be stored remotely from the presentation device . During the presentation or prior to the presentation the presentation application may retrieve the electronic presentation from another device system or server.

The presentation device may include a display interface which is configured to interact with one or both of the displays . By way of example in at least some example embodiments the display interface may be a video card. The display interface may control output to the displays . For example the display interface may create video signals which are capable of being processed by one or more displays .

In the example embodiment illustrated the audience display and the presenter display are both illustrated as being external to the presentation device . In such example embodiments the displays may be connected to the presentation device via wired or wireless communications. However in other example embodiments one or both of the displays may be internal to the presentation device . For example in at least some example embodiments the presenter display may be internal to the presentation device . For example as noted above in some example embodiments a laptop based presentation device i.e. laptop computer may be used. The laptop computer may include an internal display which may be used as the presenter display .

The presentation device may include one or more communication interfaces for communicating with other systems servers or devices. For example in some example embodiments a communication interface may be provided on the presentation device to allow the presentation device to communicate over the network of with devices servers or systems which are connected to that network . For example in at least some example embodiments the communication interface may be a wireless communication interface such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth or may be a communication interface which is configured to communicate via wired communications such as Ethernet communications. The communication interface may take other forms apart from those specifically listed herein. In at least some example embodiments the communication interface permits the presentation device to communicate with the feedback interface server of and or one or more feedback providing devices of .

The presentation device may include other features components or subsystems apart from those specifically discussed herein. By way of example the presentation device will include a power sub system which interfaces with a power source for providing electrical power to the presentation device and its components. By way of further example the presentation device may include one or more input devices. The input devices may include a navigational input device and or an alphanumeric input device. By way of example an input device may be a mouse a track pad a track ball a touch screen overlay or another input device not specifically listed herein. The input device may allow the presenter to control playback of the electronic presentation . For example the input device may permit the presenter to instruct the presentation device to begin playback of the presentation navigate to a next slide or a previous slide or to control the electronic presentation in other ways.

The software modules may be logically or physically organized in a manner that is different than the manner illustrated in . By way of example in at least some example embodiments the features described herein with reference to the presentation application may be provided by other software applications or modules and may be divided so that they are provided by more than one software application or module. That is functions which are described with reference to a single software application or module may be provided by a plurality of software applications or modules. Thus the software modules described with reference to represent one possible assignment of features to software modules. However such features may be organized in other ways in other example embodiments.

Furthermore in the presentation device may include other software applications or modules which provide features which are not specifically discussed herein. For example the presentation device may include operating system software which controls the overall operation of the presentation device .

Referring now to a block diagram of an example feedback interface server is illustrated. The feedback interface server includes a controller including one or more processors which controls the overall operation of the feedback interface server .

The feedback interface server includes a memory which is connected to the processor for receiving and sending data to the processor . While the memory is illustrated as a single component it will typically include multiple memory components of various types. For example a memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk drive HDD a solid state drive SSD flash memory or other types of memory. It will be appreciated that each of the various memory types will be best suited for different purposes and applications. The memory may also store other data not specifically referred to above.

The processor may operate under stored program control and may execute software modules stored on the memory . In at least some example embodiments the software modules may include a feedback interface module .

The feedback interface module may be configured to provide a feedback interface of . The feedback interface may be associated with a specific electronic presentation of . The feedback interface server may allow one or more feedback providing devices such as the mobile communication devices of to provide feedback information via the feedback interface . That is the feedback interface server may allow one or more feedback providing devices to access the feedback interface . In at least some example embodiments the feedback interface module is configured to provide a displayable page such as a webpage to the feedback providing device . The displayable page allows the feedback providing device to input information to the feedback interface server . The feedback providing device may provide feedback information regarding the electronic presentation via the feedback interface . Such feedback information may for example represent an audience member s view opinions thoughts and or belief about the presentation.

In at least some example embodiments a feedback providing device may be permitted to submit feedback interface access information associated with an electronic presentation to the feedback interface server . The feedback interface server uses the feedback interface access information to identify the specific electronic presentation of which the feedback providing device is providing feedback for. For example in at least some example embodiments the feedback interface access information may include login information which is associated with an electronic presentation. Such login information may include for example a user name password or other unique identifying information associated with the electronic presentation .

The feedback interface module may be configured to receive the feedback information and may in at least some example embodiments analyze the feedback information. In at least some example embodiments the feedback interface server may provide the feedback information or information derived from the feedback information to the presentation device of during the presentation. By doing so the feedback interface server effectively updates the electronic presentation displayed on a display associated with the presentation device based on the received feedback information. That is the feedback interface server provides the feedback information or information derived from the feedback information to the presentation device which then uses such information to update the electronic presentation which is displayed on a display associated with the presentation device . For example an electronic presentation displayed on a display may be updated to include the feedback information. Thus the presenter and or the audience are provided with feedback information or information derived from feedback information during the presentation. The feedback interface module will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The feedback interface server also includes one or more communication interfaces . The communication interfaces are configured to allow the feedback interface server to communicate with other systems servers or devices which may be accessible over a network of . For example in at least some example embodiments the feedback interface server may include a communication interface which allows the feedback interface server to communicate with one or more feedback providing devices of . A communication interface on the feedback interface server may also allow the feedback interface server to communicate with the presentation device . The communication interface which allows the feedback interface server to communicate with the presentation device may be the same communication interface which is used to allow the feedback interface server to communicate with the feedback providing device . The communication interface may be configured for wired or wireless communications. By way of example the communication interface may be a Wi Fi Bluetooth or Ethernet communication interface.

The feedback interface server may include other features components or subsystems apart from those specifically discussed herein. By way of example and not limitation the feedback interface server will include a power sub system which interfaces with a power source for providing electrical power to the feedback interface server and its components. By way of further example the feedback interface server may include a display sub system for interfacing with a display such as a computer monitor and in at least some example embodiments an input sub system for interfacing with an input device. The input device may for example include an alphanumeric input device such as a computer keyboard and or a navigational input device such as a mouse.

The software modules may be logically or physically organized in a manner that is different from the manner illustrated in . By way of example in some example embodiments functions which are described with reference to the feedback interface module may be provided by a plurality of modules or applications. Thus the software modules of represent one possible assignment of features to software modules. However such features may be organized in other ways in other example embodiments.

An overview having been provided reference will now be made to which illustrates an example embodiment of a feedback providing system which does not include feedback interface server . The feedback providing system of includes many of the components which are discussed above with reference to and which are described in greater detail with reference to . For example the feedback providing system includes one or more feedback providing devices . The feedback providing devices may be mobile communication devices and may be deployed in the manner described above with reference to .

The feedback providing system also includes a presentation device which may be associated with one or more displays e.g. an audience display and or a presenter display . The presentation device and displays are also described in greater detail above with reference to and . In the example embodiment of the presentation device includes a feedback interface . That is unlike in the example embodiment of in which the feedback interface is provided by a feedback interface server in the embodiment of the feedback interface is provided by the presentation device . The feedback interface provided by the presentation device may be the same or similar which is provided by the feedback interface server of . For example the feedback interface may allow the feedback providing devices to communicate feedback information to the presentation device . The feedback interface may therefore be a front end to the presentation device .

The feedback providing device may be connected to the presentation device either directly or through a network which may be of the type described above with reference to . In at least some example embodiments the feedback providing device is connected to the presentation device via a wireless connection such as for example a Wi Fi connection or a Bluetooth connection or via another connection protocol.

Referring now to the presentation device may include the features described above with reference to . However in at least some example embodiments the presentation device may include one or more software modules which are configured to perform functions which are similar to the functions provided by the feedback interface server described above with reference to . For example the feedback interface server may include a feedback interface module which may perform functions similar to those described above with reference to the feedback interface module of . The feedback interface module may for example be stored in memory of the presentation device . For example in at least some example embodiments the presentation application may include the feedback interface module . However in other example embodiments the feedback interface module may be provided elsewhere.

The feedback interface module is configured to provide a feedback interface of for an electronic presentation and to allow one or more of the feedback providing devices to access the feedback interface of . The feedback interface module is also configured to receive at the feedback interface of feedback information from one or more of the feedback providing devices . The feedback interface module is also configured to update the electronic presentation displayed on a display associated with the presentation device based on the received feedback information. The features and functions of the feedback interface module will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

The software modules of may be logically or physically organized in a manner that is different than the manner that is illustrated in . By way of example in at least some example embodiments the functions described herein with reference to the feedback interface module may be provided by a plurality of modules.

Reference will now be made to which illustrate example methods of facilitating feedback during a local presentation. The local presentation includes an electronic presentation which may be of the type described above with reference to . The electronic presentation is associated with a presentation application which may be of the type described above with reference to . The electronic presentation is configured for display on a display of associated with the presentation device of .

The methods include features which may be performed by an electronic device such as the presentation device of the feedback interface server of and or the feedback providing device of . One or more applications or modules such as the feedback interface module of and or the feedback interface module of may contain computer readable instructions for causing a processor associated with the feedback interface server and or the presentation device to perform any one or more of the methods of . That is in at least some example embodiments the feedback interface server is configured to perform any one or more of the methods of . In at least some such example embodiments a feedback interface module or another application or module provided on memory of the feedback interface server may be configured to cause a processor to perform any one or more of the methods of . Similarly in at least some example embodiments the presentation device which may be of the type illustrated in may be configured to perform any one or more of the methods of . In at least some example embodiments the feedback interface module of which may be provided in memory of the presentation device may be configured to cause a processor associated with the presentation device to perform any one or more of the methods .

Any one or more of the features of the methods of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other systems software applications or other modules apart from other specifically discussed herein.

Referring first to a flowchart of an example method for facilitating audience feedback during a local presentation is illustrated. At a feedback interface module may provide a feedback interface of or for a specific electronic presentation and may allow one or more feedback providing devices which may be a mobile communication device to access the feedback interface. The feedback interface may be a portal or other interface which allows the feedback providing devices to connect to the feedback interface server or the presentation device in order to provide feedback information. In at least some example embodiments the feedback interface may take the form of a web page which may be hosted by the feedback interface server or presentation device and which may be provided to the feedback providing devices upon request.

In at least some example embodiments at feedback interface access information associated with the electronic presentation may be generated. The feedback interface access information may provide access to the feedback interface for a specific electronic presentation. That is the feedback interface access information may permit the feedback providing devices to provide feedback information for a specific electronic presentation. In some example embodiments the feedback interface access information may include login information associated with the electronic presentation. The login information may include authorization information such as a user name and or a password associated with the electronic presentation. Such login information may be displayed to the audience participants within the electronic presentation to ensure that only audience participants permitted to provide feedback information. Such login information may be used by the audience members to access the feedback interface of for the electronic presentation.

The feedback information access information may in some example embodiments be used where the feedback interface server is configured to receive feedback information for more than one electronic presentation. In such example embodiments the feedback interface server may use the feedback interface access information to associate feedback information with a specific electronic presentation. That is based on the feedback interface access information a feedback interface server may determine which electronic presentation the received feedback information should be associated with.

In some example embodiments the feedback interface access information may be generated at the presentation device . In other example embodiments the feedback interface server may generate the feedback interface access information. Where the feedback interface is generated by the feedback interface server the feedback interface server may provide the feedback interface access information to the presentation device .

The feedback interface access information may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The feedback interface access information may be any information which may be used to uniquely identify an electronic presentation associated with feedback information. In some example embodiments the feedback interface access information may include a unique web address associated with the electronic presentation. That is the electronic presentation may be assigned its own unique web address where the feedback providing devices may access in order to provide feedback information for that presentation.

In some example embodiments the feedback interface of may be provided at by the presentation device . For example in some example embodiments such as those described above with reference with a feedback interface server may not be used. Instead the feedback providing devices may provide feedback directly the presentation device . For example the feedback providing devices such as the mobile communication devices of may access the feedback interface of via direct wireless connection to the presentation device . In at least some such example embodiments the feedback interface access information may be a user name password or other authentication information which allows a connection such as a wireless connection to be established between the feedback providing device and the presentation device .

In at least example embodiments after feedback interface access information is generated the feedback interface access information may be automatically included in the electronic presentation. That is in at least some example embodiments the presentation device may automatically update the electronic presentation to include the feedback interface access information. For example the presentation device may include the feedback interface access information as displayable text in one or more slides of an electronic slide presentation. In some example embodiments the feedback interface access information may be inserted into the electronic presentation as a header or a footer.

Referring still to at the feedback interface server and or the presentation device may receive via the feedback interface provided at feedback information from one or more of the feedback providing devices which may be the mobile communication devices . In some example embodiments which will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to the feedback information may be content from a chat room which is associated with the electronic presentation. In some example embodiments which will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to the feedback information may be feedback regarding the tone of the presentation feedback regarding the volume of the presentation feedback regarding a level of interest of an audience member in the presentation or feedback regarding the delivery of the presentation.

In some example embodiments the feedback information may be biosensor data which may be obtained from a biosensor of associated with the feedback providing device . The biosensor data may for example be heartbeat data which is associated with a heartbeat biosensor . Other types of biosensors may also be used. From the biosensor data the feedback interface server and or the presentation device may be configured to gauge an audience member s level of interest in the presentation or components of the presentation. For example an increased heart rate may be indicative of interest in the presentation or a portion of the presentation.

Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the feedback information received from the feedback providing device may describe a level of interest of an audience member. While biosensor data may be used in some example embodiments in order to indicate the level of interest in other example embodiments other indicia may be used to indicate an audience member s level of interest. For example in at least some example embodiments the feedback interface of may allow an audience member to specifically state their level of interest on a predetermined scale e.g. on a scale of 1 to 10 .

At the electronic presentation displayed on a display associated with the presentation device may be updated based on the received feedback information. As noted previously in some example embodiments the presentation device may receive the feedback information directly. In at least some such example embodiments the presentation device may automatically update the electronic presentation based on the received feedback information. In other example embodiments which include a feedback interface server to act as an intermediary and receive the feedback information the feedback interface server may update the electronic presentation with the help of the presentation device . For example the feedback interface server may send to the presentation device feedback information or information derived from such feedback information and the presentation device may update the displayed electronic presentation based on the received feedback information or information derived from the feedback information. Accordingly may be performed in whole or in part by the presentation device or may be performed by the feedback interface server which may be assisted by the presentation device .

In some example embodiments at the displayed electronic presentation may be updated to include the feedback information itself. In other example embodiments the feedback interface server and or the presentation device may perform some analysis on the feedback information to derive other information from the feedback information. For example feedback information from multiple feedback providing devices may be compiled by the feedback interface server and or the presentation device . In some example embodiments at the displayed electronic presentation may be updated to include information derived from the feedback information.

In at least some example embodiments at the electronic presentation may be updated to include text graphics or other displayable features based on the feedback information or information derived from the feedback information. By way of example where the feedback information indicates that the presenter is speaking too quietly the electronic presentation may be updated to indicate to the presenter that they should speak more loudly.

In some example embodiments the presentation device may be associated with more than one display . As noted in the discussion of above in some example embodiments the presentation device may be associated with an audience display and also a presenter display . In at least some such example embodiments the presenter may prefer that the audience does not have access to the feedback information. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments at only a presenter display is updated. That is the electronic presentation displayed on the audience display may not be updated based on the feedback information in some example embodiments. The presenter display which is configured for viewing by the presenter but not the audience may be updated based on the feedback information.

In some example embodiments the presentation application of may be configured to display a speaker notes section. A speaker notes section is a portion of the electronic presentation which is designed to be viewed by the presenter but not the audience. The speaker notes section is generally used for the speaker to provide themselves with cues prompts or other reminders which can be associated with various stages of the electronic presentation. For example where the electronic presentation is an electronic slide presentation each slide may be associated with different speaker notes. In at least some such example embodiments at the speaker notes section of the electronic presentation may be updated to include the feedback information or information derived from the feedback information.

In other example embodiments at the electronic presentation displayed on an audience display which is configured for viewing by the audience may be updated based on the received feedback information or information derived from the feedback information. For example the electronic presentation displayed on the audience display may be updated to include text graphics or other displayable features which are indicative of the feedback information.

As noted previously in some example embodiments the feedback information may be content from a chat room associated with the electronic presentation. Referring now to one such example embodiment is illustrated in flowchart form. illustrates a method for facilitating feedback during a local presentation.

In some such example embodiments the feedback interface of may include a chat room which allows the audience to chat during the local presentation. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments at the feedback interface server and or the presentation device may provide a chat room. may be performed for example during step of . Accordingly may include the functions and features described above with reference to . For example in some example embodiments may include a step of generating feedback interface access information which may be used in the example embodiment of to access the chat room associated with the electronic presentation.

At chat content may be received at the feedback interface server and or the presentation device . may be performed at of and may include the features described above with reference to of . The chat may include several participants who are audience members. The chat room may be available throughout the electronic presentation and in at least some example embodiments before or after the electronic presentation.

At the feedback interface server and or the presentation device may analyze chat content from the chat room associated with the electronic presentation. In some example embodiments when analyzing the chat content the feedback interface server and or the presentation device may determine the frequency of use one or more words in the chat. That is the number of times each word is used in the chat may be determined. In some example embodiments at a word cloud may be created based on the content from the chat. A word cloud is a visual representation of the frequency of use of words in a document or other content. In this case the word cloud indicates the usage of words in the chat room associated with the electronic presentation. Thus the word cloud allows a presenter to gauge what audience members are discussing during the presentation.

Other methods of analyzing the chat content may be performed in other example embodiments. In some example embodiments the analysis may include filtering one or more words from the chat room. For example words may be filtered from the chat room based on a black list. The black list may for example include words which the presenter would not wish to be displayed. For example vulgar or offensive words may be included in the black list and filtered from the chat content at . Similarly in at least some example embodiments the chat content may be filtered based on the part of the speech of words or terms used in the chat content. A part of speech is a category to which a word is assigned in accordance with its syntactic functions. For example a part of speech may be a noun pronoun adjective determiner verb adverb etc. In some example embodiments certain types of words may be filtered out from the chat content.

At the electronic presentation displayed on a display associated with the presentation device may be updated based on the chat content. may for example be performed at of and may include the features and functions described above with reference to of . For example in example embodiments in which a word cloud has been generated the word cloud may be displayed on a display associated with the presentation device . Similarly in some example embodiments at the electronic presentation displayed on a display may be updated to highlight one or more terms included in the electronic presentation based on usage of those words in the chat room. For example in some example embodiments a word may be highlighted based on the frequency use of that word in the chat room. In some example embodiments if a frequency of use of that word in the chat room exceeds a predetermined threshold then the word may be highlighted on the electronic presentation.

As discussed above with reference to in some example embodiments at only a presenter display may be updated. However in some example embodiments at an audience display may be updated.

One or more features of the method may be repeated. For example in at least some example embodiments chat content may be received after the electronic presentation is updated at . In at least some example embodiments the electronic presentation may be further updated based on the received feedback information such as the chat content. For example where a word cloud is generated the word cloud may be updated based on further content from the chat.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates a method for facilitating feedback during a local presentation. The method includes features and functions which are described in greater detail above with reference to . In the method of when a feedback providing device such as a mobile communication device accesses the feedback interface of the feedback providing device displays a prompt for feedback of a specified type. That is the feedback interface server or the presentation device may at cause the feedback providing device to display a prompt for feedback of a specified type. By way of example in some example embodiments the specified type may be feedback regarding the tone of the presentation. In some example embodiments the specified type may be feedback regarding the volume of the presentation. In some example embodiments the specified type may be feedback regarding the level of interest regarding the presentation. In some example embodiments the specified type may be feedback regarding the delivery of the presentation.

The prompt may in some example embodiments be provided on a web page which is accessed by the feedback providing device . The web page or another graphical user interface may include one or more selectable interface elements such as a radio box a check box a slider a button or a text box which allows a user of the feedback providing device to input specific feedback information. The user may input such feedback information by interacting with an input interface associated with the feedback providing device .

Accordingly at the feedback information may be received in a manner described above with reference to . Similarly at the electronic presentation displayed on a display associated with the presentation device may be updated in the manner described above with reference to . By way of example the electronic presentation displayed on a display may be updated to specify the feedback information regarding the tone of the presentation feedback information regarding a level of interest regarding the presentation or feedback information regarding the delivery of the presentation.

The example embodiments described above referred generally to a local presentation. The local presentation is meant to include an in person presentation. That is the local presentation is a live presentation which is generally provided in front of an audience. That is the example embodiments described above discuss a non webinar environment. Rather the local presentation is a traditional presentation. The audience members may for example be gathered in a room such as a lecture hall auditorium stadium or other gathering facility in which the presenter is located.

In some example embodiments however the methods and devices described herein may be applied to other types of presentations.

Referring now to example updated electronic presentations will now be discussed. The example updated presentations may have been updated based on feedback information which was received from one or more feedback providing devices .

Referring first to a first updated electronic presentation illustrates an electronic presentation which has been updated based on the feedback information to include a highlighted term . That is a term included in the electronic presentation has been highlighted due to use of that term in the feedback. In the example illustrated the highlighted term has been underlined italicized and boldfaced. In other example embodiment other highlighting effects may be applied.

Referring now to a second updated electronic presentation illustrates an electronic presentation which has been updated based on the feedback information to include a word cloud . The word cloud identifies words which were included in the feedback information. In the example illustrated the size of words in the word cloud is used to denote the frequency of use of those words in the feedback information.

Referring now to a third updated electronic presentation illustrates an electronic presentation which has been updated based on the feedback information to include indicators . In the illustrated example the indicators are graphical representations of feedback information. A volume indicator is used to illustrate feedback regarding the volume of the presentation. A speed indicator is used to illustrate feedback regarding the speed of the presentation and an interest indicator is used to illustrate feedback regarding the level of interest in the presentation. Other example embodiments may include other types of indicators.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as a handheld electronic device and a server. The handheld electronic device and the server includes components for performing at least some of the example aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

