---

title: Electronic messaging system with configurable delivery that maintains recipient privacy
abstract: A messaging service allows message senders to reach a web site owner in the way the owner wants. Users authorized by the owner drop a message into the message service of a site owner, and it gets delivered to the site owner in exactly the manner specified by the site owner. The site owner can organize incoming messages by time, calendar, user, or viewing method. The site owner can receive messages in the way she wants, but all her friends need to know is one address, the owner's site address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09147082&OS=09147082&RS=09147082
owner: WHORLR LLC
number: 09147082
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120810
---
The present application is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 315 045 filed Dec. 8 2011 which claims the benefit of pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 534 201 filed on Sep. 13 2011 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application relates to electronic messaging systems and more particularly to configurable electronic messaging systems that maintain recipient privacy.

Unified messaging systems are well known. These systems redirect incoming electronic messages from a user s many message boxes e.g. email voicemail fax to one unified inbox. The systems are designed to improve efficiency for recipients by allowing them to monitor a single inbox for electronic messages of many different types. Typically these systems are used in large corporations that have sophisticated email servers on which all electronic messages can be directed into a single inbox most often and email address. While these systems have some utility in an integrated corporate environment they are not truly unified because they are not designed to handle all the types of messages e.g. text messages used in modern business.

Also known in corporate email servers and otherwise is the ability to route incoming messages from a single published message address to multiple other message boxes according to automatic rules that can be designed and implemented by the published address owner. Although the owner of such a published message address can receive messages in the way he wants preferred box and format he cannot control use of his published address which may be sold to spammers. A further problem is that the published address is often the username for other Internet computing resources. In addition if the recipient changes her messaging address for reasons of security or otherwise she must communicate the change to all senders each of whom must continually update their address books in an ongoing burden.

What is desired in another respect therefore is a system which keeps message addresses private but still allows incoming messages to be routed to one of several electronic inboxes as desired by the recipient owner. Also desired is the ability to route incoming messages to a private address to an electronic box of a different messaging format and the ability to limit incoming messages to an approved sender list. The ability to route the messages according to a matrix of parameters such as sender time date etc. is also desirable.

Accordingly it is an object of the invention to provide a messaging system which keeps message addresses private but still allows incoming messages to be routed to one of several electronic inboxes as desired by the recipient owner.

Another object of the invention is to provide a messaging system that has the ability to route incoming messages to a private address to an electronic box of a different messaging format and the ability to limit incoming messages to an approved sender list.

Another object of the invention is to provide a messaging system with the ability to route messages according to a matrix of parameters such as sender time date etc.

These and other objects of the present invention are achieved by provision of a messaging service that allows message senders to reach a web site owner in the way the owner wants. Users authorized by the owner drop a message into the message service of a site owner and it gets delivered to the site owner in exactly the manner specified by the site owner. The site owner can organize incoming messages by time calendar user viewing method etc. The site owner can receive messages in the way she wants but all her friends need to know is one address the owner s site address.

With the system of the present invention each owner is provided with a messaging service inbox that the owner can chose to associate with his personal site. The messaging service has some unique characteristics that put the owner in control of her incoming electronic messages and preserve her privacy in the process. The messaging service inbox of the present invention differs from other electronic messaging systems in several important ways. First recipients have no address so there is nothing to be harvested or spammed and the owner is free to change his electronic inboxes at any time without any disruption in message delivery or burden on senders to update their address books. Second only senders authorized by the owner have access to the owner s messaging service inbox. This means messages from any particular person can be permanently blocked by the recipient owner at any time.

By employing the system of the present invention users do not need to remember which cell phone number the site owner is currently using which email address is still valid where to find those photos from the site owner s last outing or how to subscribe to the site owner s Twitter feed. Everything is right in one place and users have access to it all on an owner s site. Once users navigate to an owner s site they have instant access to the site owner in the manner that the owner desires.

A configurable website according to the invention enables an owner to provide a user with access to the functionality of other websites. The authority to access this functionality is supplied on a per function basis. For example a user can be granted the use of certain functions of a particular website but not to others such as being granted the ability to read content on the website but not to modify it. Or the ability to modify text on the website but not images. Furthermore the user can be granted different degrees of authority over the functionality of several websites. For instance the user could be granted access only to read content on website A but be granted access to modify as well as read content on website B and so forth. Optionally many users can access the configurable website each being granted specific authority to access functionality on other websites. Furthermore the configurable website itself can include functions and content to which specific access can be granted to users in the same way. These functions may be individual to the configuration webpage or may be an aggregate of the functionality and content of the other webpages. These examples are not intended to be limiting and it will be clear to those having skill in the art that many combinations of functionality authorizations are possible without departing from the spirit of the invention.

To this effect a configurable web server is provided connected to a network . Web server has access to various function modules over network at least one of which function modules may include website data sets .

The configurable web server may be a traditional web server or any other hardware and or software for serving a website to visitors with a more detailed view of a preferred embodiment of the web server being shown in . The network may be the internet a subset of the internet a local area network wide area network wireless network cloud or other arrangement for computer communications. Website data sets can relate to any type of website including social networking websites that provide a homepage blog comment posting syndication or other such functionality to the owner and may require authentication for access to all or part of their content. Website data sets may relate to websites requiring authentication for use on a per function basis however in which case website data sets may include data relating to a secondary authentication to an Internet computing resource.

Web server can be used to generate a configurable website not shown for use as an interface whereby an owner can aggregate content from website data sets and can control access to websites on a per user and per function basis. In this regard web server can be viewed as having a site setup portion and a site serving portion .

Function modules can be accessed by the owner for incorporation into the configurable website and can include various basic functionality for running a website including applets scripts templates style sheets and the like. Function modules may be provided on the web server or be provisionable from third parties that hosting third party websites that may be made available to the system over network . The third party websites may also be directly accessed by the webpage owners using user setup hardware in the usual way of employing account owner access .

Example function modules can include website data sets which may include a secondary authentication to a computing resource such as a third party website such as a web server hosting a social media site not shown . Further example function modules can include an application programming interface API which may be used to retrieve and display data change data or supplement data. The API can be a configurable web server API provided to a third party for modification or can be entirely created by the third party before being uploaded to the web server as a third party API . Function modules may be generated by a third party as shown in and may provide access on the configurable website to third party data. As another example function modules may simply comprise data itself. For example individual pieces of art and blog posts may be tagged with permissions instead of subjects when they are uploaded. In this manner new art only shows up in the appropriate collection s and blog posts are only viewable by the intended user group.

User setup hardware is also connected to network and is accessible to the owner. Using the user setup hardware the owner can transmit account setup or site revision data a selection of functions to be enabled on the configurable website access control for functions enabled on the configurable website and optionally status updates to system .

User setup hardware can be a computer laptop mobile device smartphone or other device for accessing a web server. Account setup or site revision data may include information for running the configurable website including owner personal information passwords and multifactor authentications to access the configurable website correspondence information such as e mail addresses information pertaining to the desired display of the configurable website and URLs for the various websites that can be managed using the system .

Account setup data may include authentications which serve as access credentials for other website data sets in addition to the configurable website. Access credentials can include passwords multifactors tokens or other ways of controlling access to each website. Optionally a permitted user list not shown is associated with the configurable website website data sets and or function modules .

Optionally website date sets relate to social networking websites not shown . Social networking websites may include but are not limited to websites for creating and connecting public private and semi public user profiles online communities blogs news feeds audio and video sharing and web syndication websites. Such websites are frequently closed silo communities where only third party users having an account on that particular website would be able to view or interact with content belonging to an owner of a profile. The present invention provides the advantage of supplying access to an owner s information that is stored in such closed silo communities without requiring third party users to first obtain an account of their own.

Functions can include a selection of functions enabled for the configurable website. For instance the owner can choose to enable content posting on the configurable website itself. Access control is also specified for the functions enabled on the configurable website i.e. who can access each function. Optionally status updates to the configurable website can be transmitted to system from the user setup hardware if this functionality has been selected. This various site data including the function selection and access control date specified by the owner may be stored in a database or other memory accessible to the web server .

To access the configurable website not shown user access hardware is accessible to either the owner or to third party users of the configurable website and is connected to network . User access hardware can be a computer laptop mobile device smartphone or other device for accessing a webpage and optionally can be the same hardware used as the user setup hardware . The user first transmits an authentication from the user access hardware to the system . Authentication may be a password multifactor authorization hardware token or other way of controlling access to the configurable website. System responds by transmitting accessible website data regarding websites with functions that are accessible to that user. If the user is the owner or another user with proper authorization accessible website data can also include data regarding the configurable website itself. Subsequently the user can select a website from amongst the accessible website data and transmit website selection from user access hardware to system . System then responds by transmitting accessible function data to user regarding functions that are accessible to that user for the selected accessible website. The user can then select a function and transmit function selection from user access hardware to system .

User setup hardware and or user access hardware may optionally include a touch screen to facilitate user input and or may optionally include a wireless transceiver to enable wireless communication.

Accessible website data accessible function data and selected function will typically be transmitted to the user access hardware from system as a webpage for display to the user on a GUI not shown as further discussed below. The GUI may be a combination of a display and driver software. Optionally the accessible website data and accessible function data are presented to the user as thumbnail images not shown within a webpage. Thumbnail images may be a miniaturized image of the webpage or function they represent or may be a different image.

Optionally display is displayed on user access hardware and reflects accessible website data transmitted from system as shown and described with respect to . In some embodiments the user can choose a thumbnail using a mouse cursor or other suitable selection means not shown . A website selection reflecting this choice is then transmitted as shown and described with respect to .

Optionally display is displayed on user access hardware and reflects accessible function data transmitted from system as shown and described with respect to . In some embodiments the user can choose a thumbnail image using a mouse cursor or other suitable selection means not shown . A function selection reflecting this choice is then transmitted as shown and described with respect to . Optionally the user can also choose a thumbnail to view accessible functions for a different website not shown . A website selection reflecting this choice is transmitted as shown and described with respect to .

Function selection bar displays thumbnail images as described with respect to . Chosen function indicator displays a thumbnail image of the currently chosen function . Website selection bar displays thumbnail images as described with respect to . If the user is the owner or has been granted an appropriate level of authority a thumbnail representing the configurable website itself may be displayed in website selection bar or in title bar . Chosen website indicator displays a thumbnail image of the website whose accessible functions are shown by thumbnail images .

Thumbnail images representing various website functions to which the user has been granted access by the owner of the configurable website pertaining to a website chosen from display .

Display can be displayed on user access hardware and reflects accessible function data transmitted from system as shown and described with respect to . In some embodiments the user can choose a thumbnail image using a mouse cursor or other suitable selection means not shown . A function selection reflecting this choice is then transmitted as shown and described with respect to .

The user may also choose a thumbnail to view accessible functions for a different website not shown or chose a thumbnail to access a different function A website selection reflecting this choice is transmitted as shown and described with respect to .

The system includes a message server connected to a network . Message server may be a traditional mail server web server or any other hardware and or software for serving messages. The network may be the Internet a subset of the Internet a local area network wide area network wireless network cloud or other arrangement for computer communications.

Message recipient hardware is also connected to network and is in communication with the message server . Message recipient hardware can be a computer laptop mobile device smartphone or other device for communicating with a message server and can be the same hardware as user setup hardware described above when the messaging system is used in conjunction with the configurable website system described above or can be separate therefrom. Message recipient hardware is also used to access one or more recipient electronic mailboxes each of which may be configured in any known or yet to be developed messaging format.

The electronic mailboxes may include for example mailboxes for receiving email text or SMS messages facsimiles voice messages and document uploads to a server e.g. via FTP . In some embodiments system further allows for the receipt of live telephone calls. As such the system can handle the receipt and transmission of any and all the types of messages.

Message sender hardware is also connected to network and is in communication with the message server . Message sender hardware can be a computer laptop mobile device smartphone or other device for communicating with a message server and can be the same hardware as user access hardware described above when the messaging system is used in conjunction with the configurable website system described above or can be separate therefrom. Message sender hardware is preferably configured to be able to read and manipulate web pages as described in more detail below.

Initially the message recipient uses message recipient hardware to configure his messaging account by supplying account setup message data to message server see e.g. . This message data may include a name or names associated with the message recipient a list of one or more secondary electronic mailboxes to which the message recipient has access an access list of senders authorized to send messages to the message recipient and messaging routing rules. The message routing rules may be dependent for example upon parameters such as message sender e.g. all messages from Sender A should be routed to Box 2 time of day e.g. all messages received after 5 00 pm should be routed to Boxes 1 and 3 days of the week e.g. all messages received on Saturdays should be routed to Box 3 particular dates e.g. all messages received from Jan. 1 2011 Jan. 8 2011 should be routed to Boxes 1 and 2 etc. The rules may also comprise a matrix dependent upon two or more parameters e.g. all messages received from Sender B after 10 00 pm should be routed to Box 2 . Upon receipt of account setup message data or changes thereto by message server message server may store the message data in a database or other memory. Furthermore the rules may specify one or more particular formats in which the recipient desires to receive messages for each of her electronic mailboxes.

When a message sender desires to send a message to a message recipient using the system of the present invention the message sender may use message sender hardware to supply an authentication to message server . In response the message server may based upon the authentication and the message data stored in database transmit to message sender hardware a list of permitted names to whom the message sender is authorized to send messages. The message sender may then select a recipient name from the list and transmit the selected recipient name to the message server .

Alternately the transmission of the list of permitted names may be omitted and the message sender hardware may be used to transmit both the authentication and the recipient name without the list of permitted names being provided. In this case the message server may analyze the authentication and the recipient name against the message data stored in database in order to determine whether the message sender is authorized to send messages to the identified message recipient.

This may be the case for example when each message recipient has his own personal web page similar to that described above in connection with the configurable website system shown in such that the message sender may simply choose a send message function from the recipient s web page it being the case that if the send message function is available for selection the would be message sender would have been authorized to send messages .

In any event is it preferred that the message is received from the message sender via a non public electronic mailbox address. More specifically it is highly desirable that the manner in which the message is received from the message sender be strictly limited only to authorized message senders and that the addresses for the secondary electronic mailboxes to which the message recipient has access be kept private so as to prevent spammers from being able to obtain access to the electronic mailboxes of the message recipient.

Once the recipient name has been received the message server may optionally transmit to message sender hardware a description of any restrictions placed on the message sender by the message recipient as contained in the message data stored in database . The message sender hardware may then be used to create and transmit a message to the message server . In one embodiment the message server may serve a web page to message sender hardware with message creation and transmission functionality thereby allowing messages to be send by any message sender hardware capable of viewing and manipulating web pages.

Once the message is received by the message server the message server examines the parameters surrounding receipt of the message in view of the message data stored in database . Message reformat software may optionally be provided for translating the message into a desired format e.g. email text or SMS message facsimile voice message document upload to a server etc. specified in the message data stored in database if necessary. Message router software then determines based upon the parameters surrounding receipt of the message the message data stored in database particularly the rules and secondary mailbox information and any necessary extrinsic information such as time date etc. to which electronic mailbox or mailboxes the message should be routed before routing the message to the appropriate electronic mailbox or mailboxes.

A message may be inputted as text into a fillable box recorded a voice message or uploaded as a document . Provided that sender is authorized to message the recipient the message is sent to the recipient based on the mailbox category selection and the routing rules set up by the recipient.

By employing the messaging system described above message addresses are kept private but incoming messages are still allowed to be routed to one of several electronic inboxes as desired by the recipient owner. Also provided is the ability to route incoming messages to a private address to an electronic box of a different messaging format and the ability to limit incoming messages to an approved sender list. The ability to route the messages according to a matrix of parameters such as sender time date etc. is also provided. In some embodiments the messaging system also permits a sender to select the mailbox type or method of contacting the recipient.

Although the invention has been described with reference to a particular arrangement of parts features and the like these are not intended to exhaust all possible arrangements or features and many modifications and variations will be ascertainable to those of skill in the art.

