---

title: Mixed fiber sliver for use in the manufacture of cigarette filter elements
abstract: Smoking articles including filter elements formed from two or more fibrous inputs with different physical properties are provided. The two or more fibrous inputs are provided in the form of staple fibers, which are at least partially entangled with each other to form a mixed fiber sliver. The mixed fiber sliver includes a first plurality of cellulose acetate staple fibers blended with a second plurality of staple fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of staple fibers, such as staple fibers of a degradable polymeric material. The entangled fibers of the mixed fiber sliver may be sufficiently separated from one another such that blooming operations typically required in filter element production may not be necessary prior to incorporating the mixed fiber sliver into a filter element. Related methods, apparatuses and mixed fiber products are also provided by the disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09179709&OS=09179709&RS=09179709
owner: R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 09179709
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120725
---
The present disclosure relates to products made or derived from tobacco or other smokable material that are intended for human consumption. In particular the disclosure relates to filter elements for smoking articles such as cigarettes and related methods and apparatuses for producing filter elements.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes may have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and may include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises plasticized cellulose acetate tow circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping material. It also may be desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth in Tobacco Production Chemistry and Technology Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

After use the discarded portion of the cigarette is primarily composed of the filter element which typically consists of tightly compacted and highly crimped cellulose acetate fibers bonded at their contact points and wrapped by the plug wrap and tipping material. The presence of the wrapping materials the fiber to fiber bonding and the compacted nature of conventional filter elements has a detrimental effect on the rate of degradation of cigarette filters in the environment. Unless the filter element is unwrapped and the fibers spread apart to increase exposure biodegradation of the filter can take several years.

Cellulose is a known biodegradable fiber which is capable of aerobic and or anaerobic degradation in a variety of environments. However cellulose has traditionally not been used for the production of fibrous tow for filter elements due in large part to the poor taste of cigarette smoke associated with cellulose based filter elements as compared with traditional cellulose acetate based filter elements. It is believed that the traditionally used cellulose acetate is advantageous in providing acetate groups that can interact with and remove certain undesirable phenolic compounds from the vapor phase of cigarette smoke. Cellulose does not have acetate groups on the fiber surface and it is believed that this may contribute to the poor taste associated with cellulose based filters. Surface acetylation of cellulose and other types of fibers to address this issue has been proposed. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 085 760 to Toyoshima. However there is no commercial process available for surface acetylation which generally requires long reaction times and or toxic chemicals.

Certain filter elements for cigarettes have been developed which contain materials that may promote biodegradation of filter elements following use. For example certain additives have been noted e.g. water soluble cellulose materials water soluble fiber bonding agents starch particles photoactive pigments and or phosphoric acid which can be added to filter materials to enhance degradability. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 913 311 to Ito et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 947 126 to Wilson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 970 988 to Buchanan et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 571 802 to Yamashita and US Pat. Appl. Publ. Nos. 2009 0151735 to Robertson and 2011 0036366 to Sebastian. In some cases conventional cellulose acetate filter material has been replaced with other materials such as moisture disintegrative sheet materials extruded starch materials or polyvinyl alcohol. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 709 227 to Arzonico et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 911 224 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 6 062 228 to Loercks et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 595 217 to Case et al. It has also been suggested that the incorporation of slits into a filter element may enhance biodegradability as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 947 126 to Wilson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 435 208 to Garthaffner. Biodegradability has also been proposed to be imparted by use of certain adhesives such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 453 144 to Kauffman et al. and US Pat. Appl. Publ. 2012 0000477 to Sebastian et al. Another possible means for enhancing biodegradability is replacing the conventional cellulose acetate filter material with a core of a fibrous or particulate cellulose material coated with a cellulose ester as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 344 349 to Asai et al.

Further advancements in filter elements and apparatuses and methods for producing the same are desirable. Particularly additional methods for enhancing the biodegradability of filter elements for preparing such filters having enhanced biodegradability are desirable.

In one aspect a method for forming a fibrous bundle suitable for use in a cigarette filter element is provided. Advantageously the method may be such that it provides a filter element having enhanced biodegradability in comparison to traditional cellulose acetate tow based filter elements while retaining the desirable organoleptic properties associated with cellulose acetate filters.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method for forming a fibrous bundle suitable for use in a filter element for a smoking article the method comprising blending a first plurality of cellulose acetate staple fibers with a second plurality of staple fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of staple fibers to give a fiber mixture and carding the fiber mixture to provide a mixed fiber sliver having a total denier in the range of from about 20 000 denier to about 80 000 denier.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for forming a filter element for a smoking article the method receiving a mixed fiber sliver comprising a mixture of a first plurality of cellulose acetate staple fibers and a second plurality of staple fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of staple fibers the mixed fiber sliver having a total denier in the range of from about 20 000 denier to about 80 000 denier and processing the mixed fiber sliver to provide a filter element suitable for incorporation into a smoking article.

In some embodiments the mixed fiber sliver used in the above noted methods has a total denier in the range of from about 30 000 denier to about 60 000 denier. The second plurality of staple fibers can in some embodiments comprise a degradable polymeric material such as aliphatic polyesters cellulose regenerated cellulose cellulose acetate with imbedded starch particles cellulose coated with acetyl groups polyvinyl alcohol starch aliphatic polyurethanes polyesteramides cis polyisoprene cis polybutadiene polyanhydrides polybutylene succinate and copolymers and blends thereof.

In some embodiments the plurality of staple fibers comprising cellulose acetate and the second plurality of staple fibers comprising a material other than cellulose acetate are provided in a weight ratio of the first plurality of cellulose acetate staple fibers to the second plurality of staple fibers of about 25 75 to about 75 25 such as an embodiment wherein the two types of staple fibers are present in roughly equivalent amounts by weight. In some embodiments the plurality of staple fibers comprising cellulose acetate and the plurality of staple fibers comprising a material other than cellulose acetate are in roughly equivalent lengths. The lengths of the staple fibers can vary and may be for example from about 2 to about 20 inches from about 5 to about 15 inches. In some embodiments the staple fibers of both types have lengths of about 7 inches or greater.

The method may in some embodiments include one or more additional steps including but not limited to drafting the mixed fiber sliver twisting or crimping the mixed fiber sliver applying a plasticizer to the mixed fiber sliver and or strengthening the mixed fiber sliver by air entangling or by incorporation of a core yarn or textured yarn into the mixed fiber sliver. Further in certain embodiments the method further comprises incorporating the mixed fiber sliver into a filter element for a smoking article.

In another aspect of the invention is provided a filter element comprising a mixed fiber sliver comprising a mixture of a first plurality of cellulose acetate staple fibers and a second plurality of staple fibers comprising a polymeric material different from the first plurality of staple fibers the mixed fiber sliver having a total denier in the range of from about 20 000 denier to about 80 000 denier. In certain embodiments the filter element exhibits a degradation rate that is at least about 50 faster than that of a traditional cellulose acetate filter element. In a further embodiment is provided a cigarette comprising a rod of smokable material and a filter element comprising a mixed fiber sliver as described herein attached to the rod. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following.

The present disclosure now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. The disclosure may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used in this specification and the claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

As described herein embodiments of the disclosure relate to products comprising staple fibers configured for use in the manufacture of cigarette filter elements and methods and apparatuses for the production thereof. By way of comparison in the traditional production of cigarettes one tow fiber is typically employed to form the filter element. A tow fiber as used herein refers to a substantially untwisted bundle of two or more substantially continuous filaments of a fiber. The material composition of the fibers forming the tow fiber may vary depending on the desired characteristics of the filter element to be produced from the tow fiber. For example the fibers forming the tow fiber may comprise cellulose acetate which may be employed for desirable taste and filtering characteristics associated therewith.

Accordingly provided herein are methods and apparatuses for improved filter elements that incorporate two or more fibers that may exhibit differing characteristics. In particular in certain embodiments the present disclosure provides a means by which two or more dissimilar fibers can be incorporated within a filter element by providing the two or more fibers in cut staple fiber form blending the cut staple fibers forming the cut staple fibers into a sliver and incorporating the sliver into a filter element for a smoking article.

In some embodiments the two or more dissimilar fibers can be characterized as having different filtration properties or exhibiting different levels of biodegradability. By combining such fibers in the same filter element using the apparatuses systems and methods of the present disclosure the overall level of biodegradability of the filter element can be adjusted to a desired level or the filtration efficiency with respect to specific solid or gaseous components of mainstream smoke can be adjusted as desired. Examples of combinations of fiber types exhibiting different filtration characteristics can be found for example in US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2012 0024304 to Sebastian et al. which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In some embodiments by combining different fiber types in the same filter element using the apparatuses systems and methods of the present disclosure the filter element incorporated within a cigarette can achieve the desired function e.g. desired level of biodegradability and or filtration efficiency while providing the user with acceptable taste characteristics typically associated with traditional cellulose acetate based filter elements.

In this regard illustrates an example embodiment of a system of operations configured to produce filter elements with operations performed by the system illustrated schematically. In particular the system is configured to receive two or more fibrous tow types cut the fibrous tows into staple fibers blend the staple fibers and form a blended sliver from the two or more types of cut staple fibers. A sliver is a bundle of fibers aligned such that they are generally relatively parallel to one another and thus has been subjected to a carding process . The fibers within the bundle are typically loosely assembled. The sliver may be employed in the formation of filter elements which may then be incorporated into cigarettes or other smoking articles. Although the system is illustrated as including sequential operations it is to be understood that the operations need not necessarily occur in the order shown. Further the system may include fewer or a greater number of operations in some embodiments.

The system of may be configured to receive inputs of two or more fibrous tows. Fibrous tows are well known in the art and are understood to be groupings of extruded filaments that are longitudinally aligned in a substantially parallel orientation. The tows can be prepared by various techniques known in the art and can in certain embodiments be stored in bales and withdrawn therefrom for use according to the present invention. In preferred embodiments the fibrous tow inputs can be raw and or untreated meaning that they can be unbonded unplasticized and can be crimped or uncrimped prior to use.

Generally one of the fiber inputs comprises standard cellulose acetate tow and one of the fiber inputs comprises a different type of tow. For example in certain embodiments the second fiber input comprises a degradable e.g. biodegradable fiber based tow. The term biodegradable as used in reference to a degradable polymer refers to a polymer that degrades under aerobic and or anaerobic conditions in the presence of bacteria fungi algae and or other microorganisms into carbon dioxide methane water and biomass although materials containing heteroatoms can also yield other products such as ammonia or sulfur dioxide. Biomass generally refers to the portion of the metabolized materials incorporated into the cellular structure of the organisms present or converted to humus fractions indistinguishable from material of biological origin.

Biodegradability can be measured for example by placing a sample in environmental conditions expected to lead to decomposition such as placing a sample in water a microbe containing solution a compost material or soil. The degree of degradation can be characterized by weight loss of the sample over a given period of exposure to the environmental conditions. Exemplary rates of degradation for certain filter element embodiments of the invention include a weight loss of at least about 20 after burial in soil for 60 days or a weight loss of at least about 30 after 15 days of exposure to a typical municipal composter. However rates of biodegradation can vary widely depending on the type of degradable particles used the remaining composition of the filter element and the environmental conditions associated with the degradation test. U.S. Pat. No. 5 970 988 to Buchanan et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 571 802 to Yamashita provide exemplary test conditions for degradation testing. The degradability of a plastic material also may be determined using one or more of the following ASTM test methods D5338 D5526 D5988 and D6400.

Exemplary biodegradable materials that can be used in a fibrous form in the present invention include aliphatic polyesters cellulose regenerated cellulose cellulose acetate fibers with imbedded starch particles polyvinyl alcohol starch aliphatic polyurethanes polyesteramides cis polyisoprene cis polybutadiene polyanhydrides polybutylene succinate and copolymers and blends thereof. Additional examples of biodegradable materials include thermoplastic cellulose available from Toray Industries Inc. of Japan and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 984 631 to Aranishi et al. which is incorporated by reference herein and thermoplastic polyesters such as Ecoflex aliphatic aromatic copolyester materials available from BASF Corporation or poly ester urethane polymers described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 087 465 to Sepp l et al. which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Any of these biodegradable fibers can further include a cellulose acetate coating on the outer surface thereof.

Exemplary aliphatic polyesters advantageously used in the present invention have the structure C O R O wherein n is an integer representing the number of monomer units in the polymer chain and R is an aliphatic hydrocarbon preferably a C1 C10 alkylene more preferably a C1 C6 alkylene e.g. methylene ethylene propylene isopropylene butylene isobutylene and the like wherein the alkylene group can be a straight chain or branched. Exemplary aliphatic polyesters include polyglycolic acid PGA polylactic acid PLA e.g. poly L lactic acid or poly DL lactic acid polyhydroxyalkanoates PHAs such as polyhydroxypropionate polyhydroxyvalerate polyhydroxybutyrate polyhydroxyhexanoate and polyhydroxyoctanoate polycaprolactone PCL polybutylene succinate polybutylene succinate adipate and copolymers thereof e.g. polyhydroxybutyrate co hydroxyvalerate PHBV .

Various other degradable materials suitable for use in the present invention are set forth for example in US Pat. Appl. Pub. Nos. 2009 0288669 to Hutchens 2011 0036366 to Sebastian 2012 0000479 to Sebastian et al 2012 0024304 to Sebastian and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 194 063 to Sebastian et al. filed Jul. 29 2011 all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

In preferred embodiments the biodegradable fibrous tow input comprises cellulose e.g. rayon . Cellulose can be natural or processed. In certain embodiments cellulose as used herein may refer to regenerated cellulose fibers. Regenerated cellulose fibers are typically prepared by extracting non cellulosic compounds from wood contacting the extracted wood with caustic soda followed by carbon disulfide and then by sodium hydroxide giving a viscous solution. The solution is subsequently forced through spinneret heads to create viscous threads to give regenerated fibers. Exemplary methods for the preparation of regenerated cellulose are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 237 274 to Leoni et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 268 666 to Baldini et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 252 766 to Baldini et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 388 256 to Ishida et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 535 028 to Yokogi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 441 689 to Laity U.S. Pat. No. 5 997 790 to Vos et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 8 177 938 to Sumnicht which are incorporated herein by reference. Various suppliers of regenerated cellulose are known including Lenzing AG Austria . For use in the present invention cellulose fibers in certain embodiments are advantageously treated to provide a secondary finish that imparts acetyl functionality to the fiber surface. Coated cellulose fibers can be provided for example using methods as outlined in US Pat. Appl. Pub. Nos. 2012 0017925 2012 0000480 and 2012 0000479 all to Sebastian et al which are incorporated herein by reference. The combination of cellulose acetate and cellulose fibers is particularly beneficial as the biodegradation rate of cellulose acetate and cellulose fibers has been shown to be greater than the sum of individual fiber degradation rates i.e. the mixture biodegrades in a synergistic fashion . See U.S. Pat. No. 5 783 505 to Ducket et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments one of the fiber inputs comprises standard cellulose acetate tow and one of the fiber inputs comprises carbon fibers ion exchange fibers and or catalytic fibers. Carbon fibers can be described as fibers obtained by the controlled pyrolysis of a precursor fiber. Sources of carbon fibers include Toray Industries Toho Tenax Mitsubishi Sumitomo Corporation Hexcel Corp. Cytec Industries Zoltek Companies and SGL Group. Exemplary commercially available carbon fibers include ACF 1603 15 and ACF 1603 20 available from American Kynol Inc. Examples of starting materials methods of preparing carbon containing fibers and types of carbon containing fibers are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 319 629 to Chamberlain U.S. Pat. No. 3 413 982 to Sublett et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 904 577 to Buisson U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 876 078 to Arakawa et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 947 874 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 230 960 to Iizuka U.S. Pat. No. 5 268 158 to Paul Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 5 338 605 to Noland et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 446 005 to Endo U.S. Pat. No. 5 482 773 to Bair U.S. Pat. No. 5 536 486 to Nagata et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 622 190 to Arterbery et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 223 376 to Panter et al. and U.S. Pat. Publication Nos. 2003 0200973 to Xue et al. 2006 0201524 to Zhang et al. 2006 0231113 to Newbery et al. and 2009 0288672 to Hutchens all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Ion exchange fibers are fibers capable of ion exchange with gas phase components of mainstream smoke from a smoking article. Such fibers are typically constructed by imbedding particles of an ion exchange material into the fiber structure or coating the fiber with an ion exchange resin. The amount of ion exchange material present in the fiber can vary but is typically about 10 to about 50 percent by weight based on the total weight of the ion exchange fiber more often about 20 to about 40 percent by weight. Exemplary ion exchange fibers are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 944 485 to Rembaum et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 361 to Economy et al both of which are incorporated by reference herein. Ion exchange fibers are commercially available for example from Fiban of Belarus and Kelheim Fibers GmbH of Germany. Exemplary products from Fiban include FIBAN A 1 monofunctional strong base fiber with N CH Cl functional group FIBAN AK 22 1 polyfunctional fiber with N NH and COOH functional groups FIBAN K 1 monofunctional strong acid fiber with SOH functional group FIBAN K 3 polyfunctional fiber with COOH NH and NH functional groups FIBAN K 4 monofunctional weak acid fiber with COOH functional group FIBAN X 1 iminodiacetic fiber FIBAN K 1 1 strong acid fiber similar to FIBAN K 1 modified by potassium cobalt ferrocyanide FIBAN A 5 polyfunctional fiber with N CH NH and COOH functional groups FIBAN A 6 and A 7 polyfunctional fiber with strong and weak base amine groups FIBAN AK 22B polyfunctional fiber similar to FIBAN K 3 and FIBAN S monofunctional fiber with FeOH functional group . One exemplary product from Kelheim Fibers is the Poseidon Fiber.

Catalytic fibers are fibers capable of catalyzing the reaction of one or more gas phase components of mainstream smoke thereby reducing or eliminating the presence of the gas phase component in the smoke drawn through the filter element. Exemplary catalytic fibers catalyze oxidation of one or more gaseous species present in mainstream smoke such as carbon monoxide nitrogen oxides hydrogen cyanide catechol hydroquinone or certain phenols. The oxidation catalyst used in the invention is typically a catalytic metal compound e.g. metal oxides such as iron oxides copper oxide zinc oxide and cerium oxide that oxidizes one or more gaseous species of mainstream smoke. Exemplary catalytic metal compounds are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 182 348 to Seehofer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 317 460 to Dale et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 956 330 to Elliott et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 050 621 to Creighton et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 340 to Augustine et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 503 475 to McCormick U.S. Pat. No. 6 503 475 to McCormick U.S. Pat. No. 7 011 096 to Li et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 152 609 to Li et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 165 553 to Luan et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 862 to Hajaligol et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 509 961 to Saoud et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 549 427 to Dellinger et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 560 410 to Pillai et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 7 566 681 to Bock et al. and US Pat. Publication Nos. 2002 0167118 to Billiet et al. 2002 0172826 to Yadav et al. 2002 0194958 to Lee et al. 2002 014453 to Lilly Jr. et al. 2003 0000538 to Bereman et al. 2005 0274390 to Banerjee et al. 2007 0215168 to Banerjee et al. 2007 0251658 to Gedevanishvili et al. 2010 0065075 to Banerjee et al. 2010 0125039 to Banerjee et al. and 2010 0122708 to Sears et al. all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. Catalytic fibers can be constructed by for example imbedding particles of a catalytic material into the fiber structure or coating the fiber with a catalytic material such as metal oxide particles. The amount of catalytic material present in the fiber can vary but is typically about 10 to about 50 percent by weight based on the total weight of the ion exchange fiber more often about 20 to about 40 percent by weight. International Application No. WO 1993 005868 also incorporated herein by reference describes the use of catalytic fibers formed by coating a surface treated hopcalite material which is a material including both copper oxides and manganese oxides available from the North Carolina Center for Research located in Morrisville N.C. onto a fibrous support.

By way of example cotton and or regenerated cellulose having ion exchange groups introduced thereto may be employed for example as an ion exchange fiber configured for vapor absorption. By way of further example polylactic acid and or polyhydroxyalkanoate may be employed as one or more fibers for improved biodegradability. Activated carbon fibers may also be employed for improved particle filtration and or improved vapor absorption. The fibers may include any other fibers which may be selected for improved biodegradability improved particulate filtration improved vapor absorption and or any other beneficial aspect associated with the fibers. For further examples see the material compositions set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Thereby for example the aspects of cellulose acetate that may be desirable e.g. taste and filtration may be retained while offering other functionality e.g. improved biodegradability improved particulate filtration and or improved vapor absorption .

The fiber tow inputs can have various physical properties. For example the fiber tow inputs can have any total denier i.e. weight in grams of a 9000 meter length of uncrimped tow . According to the present invention the total denier of the tow input material is not critical as the tow will be cut as desired. This aspect of the invention is particularly beneficial as certain materials e.g. regenerated cellulose tow are not widely available in typical required ranges for filter element production equipment. Exemplary total denier values for fiber tow inputs can vary depending on the particular input for example cellulose acetate tow can be commonly found with a total denier of from about 10 000 to about 100 000 e.g. about 35 000 and cellulose tow is commonly found in much larger sizes e.g. greater than about 80 000 or greater than about 100 000 denier .

Other characteristics of the fiber tow inputs include the denier of individual fibers thereof denier per filament i.e. dpf . Denier per filament is a measurement of the weight per unit length of the individual filaments of the fibers and can be manipulated to achieve a desired pressure drop across the filter element produced from the fibers. An exemplary dpf range for the filaments comprising the fibrous tow inputs may be about 1 to about 10 where denier is expressed in units of grams 9000 meters although larger and smaller filaments can be used without departing from the invention. The shapes of the individual filament cross sections can also vary and may include but are not limited to multilobal e.g. exhibiting a shape such as an X Y H I or C shape rectangular circular or oblong.

The relative amounts of each tow type utilized according to the methods of the invention can vary. For example the inputs can be in roughly equal proportions by weight giving a final product comprising about 1 1 cellulose acetate material degradable material. In some embodiments the inputs can be different such that greater than 50 of the input comprises cellulose acetate material or such that greater than 50 of the input comprises degradable material. For example the weight ratio of cellulose acetate input to degradable input can be from about 1 99 to about 99 1 and preferably from about 25 75 to 75 25. In certain embodiments it can be desirable to maximize the degradable input so as to maximize the degradability of the resulting product. However maximizing the degradable input may in certain embodiments hinder the ability to plasticize the resulting blended sliver e.g. with triacetin . In such embodiments therefore a certain level of cellulose acetate is advantageously maintained to ensure sufficient plasticization.

As illustrated in the standard cellulose acetate tow and the degradable tow are each cut into a multiplicity of staple fibers via steps and respectively. The cutting can be accomplished by various means. In some embodiments the staple fibers are cut using a chopper cutter rotary cutter or guillotine cutter or by stretch breaking. Tow cutting breaking equipment is known as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 485 120 to Keith U.S. Pat. No. 3 658 626 to Berger et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 042 to Laird U.S. Pat. No. 4 006 277 to Laird U.S. Pat. No. 4 141 115 to Fourne et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 192 041 to Sasaki et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 538 490 to Becker and US Pat Appl Publ No. 2009 0047857 to Chang et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. Exemplary commercially available equipment e.g. tow cutter chopper is available for example from DM E Shelby N.C. and Lenzing Technik Lenzing Austria . In certain embodiments the lengths of the staple fibers produced depend on the relationship between the speed of the cutter and the rate at which the tow is fed into the cutter. Accordingly longer or shorter staple fibers can be provided in some embodiments by modifying the feed rate into the cutter. The lengths of the staple fibers produced via this step can vary and may be for example from about 2 to about 20 inches. In some embodiments the staple fibers are from about 5 to about 15 inches such as from about 7 to about 10 inches. The lengths of the staple fibers are preferably toward the higher end of these ranges as longer staple fibers may endow the sliver produced therefrom with enhanced physical properties e.g. increased strength . Accordingly in some embodiments staple fibers are about 5 inches or greater about 7 inches or greater or about 10 inches or greater. The range of staple fiber lengths produced according to this step can vary but preferably the staple fiber lengths are substantially uniform.

The cellulose acetate staple fibers and degradable staple fibers are blended in step to give a blended fiber material. Various methods and equipment can be used to blend the staple fibers. Staple fibers can be hand blended and or blended within various types of blending equipment e.g. pickers such as those manufactured by C. J. Sargent Son now part of Buhler Aeroglide Corporation Cary N.C. and Davis Furber Machine Company originally in MA . Advantageously an intimate blend having a statistically random mixture of the two or more staple fiber types is produced.

The blend can subsequently be formed into a sliver in step by carding. Carding generally is a mechanical process that separates fibers removes tangles between fibers and aligns individual fibers such that they are more or less parallel to each other. It may also provide additional blending of the two or more components. Various carders are known including but not limited to drum carders cottage carders and industrial commercial carders. Although carding can be done by hand it is preferable to use a carding machine for use in the present invention. The carding system can comprise a roller top carding system or a flat top carding system. Carding units are available for example from Hergeth Aachen Germany e.g. roller doffed fine air doffed and coarse air doffed cards and N. Schlumberger Guebwiller Cedex France e.g. CA7 and CA6 models . Additional information and means by which carding can be accomplished are provided for example in U.S. Pat. No. 2 936 495 to Taine et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 249 967 to Varga U.S. Pat. No. 3 470 586 to Roberts U.S. Pat. No. 4 669 151 to Krusche and U.S. Pat. No. 4 831 691 to Hollingsworth et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments an optional step of twisting is conducted following the carding step. The sliver can optionally be twisted which may add additional strength to the sliver. Twisting machinery is known and commercially available for example Volkmann and Allma twisting machines from Oerlikon Saurer Kempten Krefeld Germany and Gemini and Cosmos twisting machines from Savio Macchine Milano Italy . Other machinery and methods of use thereof is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 581 886 to Coll Tortosa U.S. Pat. No. 5 758 483 to Phillips et al and U.S. Pat. No. 6 076 346 to Nakayama et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. The degree of twist optionally imparted to the sliver can vary but is generally sufficient to provide some degree of additional strength to the sliver. It is noted that too much twist may negatively impact the mechanical filtration ability of the final processed filter.

Slivers which may optionally be twisted or otherwise strengthened are then generally further straightened and stretched into a drawn sliver according to the invention via step in a drawing or drafting process. The drafting process generally results in reducing the weight yard of a sliver and increasing its length. A single sliver can be drawn or multiple slivers can be combined into one strand which is drawn as a single strand. During this step the fibers within the sliver may be straightened aligned the sliver may be made more uniform in size and or the blending of the component fibers can be enhanced. Generally after carding the sliver is passed into a drawframe where it passes between at least one pair of rollers. Exemplary drafting machinery is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 2 175 107 to Casablancas U.S. Pat. No. 2 782 112 to Berker U.S. Pat. No. 3 409 946 to Whitehurst U.S. Pat. No. 3 429 010 to Fusaroli U.S. Pat. No. 3 636 591 to Herubel U.S. Pat. No. 4 489 461 to Toyoda U.S. Pat. No. 4 551 887 to Murata U.S. Pat. No. 4 539 729 to Rieter and U.S. Pat. No. 4 768 262 to Gunter which are incorporated herein by reference. Commercial equipment is available for example from Fleissner GmbH Egelsbach Germany Tow Drawing Unit and Zhangjiagang Yonxing Machinery Co. Ltd. China Drafter Units .

The drafting step generally provides the sliver in the desired size for incorporation within the filter element of a cigarette. Therefore the drafting step typically results in modification of the overall denier of the mixed sliver. The desired denier can be modified by adjusting the feed rate into and or through the drafting machine. According to the present invention various total denier ranges can be provided however a total denier range of from about 20 000 denier to about 80 000 denier more typically from about 30 000 denier to about 60 000 denier is particularly desirable.

The drafted sliver can optionally be crimped illustrated as step in following the carding or drafting step. Crimp is texture or waviness of individual fibers or the sliver as a whole. Crimp frequency which is reported in crimps per inch cpi is an indirect measure of the bulk of the material. In some embodiments crimping can generally involves passing the sliver through rollers and into a stuffing box or stuffer box wherein friction generates pressure causing the fibers to buckle. Various crimp levels can be provided. For example in some embodiments the crimp level can be from about 10 to about 30 crimps per inch e.g. about 15 to about 26 crimps per inch.

Various equipment is known for such purposes such as that provided for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 353 239 to Heijinis U.S. Pat. No. 3 571 870 to Dixon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 813 740 to Heijinis U.S. Pat. No. 4 004 330 to Stanley U.S. Pat. No. 4 095 318 to Abbott et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 538 to Saleh and U.S. Pat. No. 7 152 288 to Sanderson et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. Commercial crimpers are available for example from DM E Corporation Shelby N.C. Fleissner GmbH Egelsbach Germany and Oerlikon Neumag Neum nster Germany .

A sliver generally must have a certain degree of strength e.g. tensile strength and or tenacity to be capable of being subjected to the subsequent processing steps traditionally employed for the production of cigarette filters. For example in some embodiments a breaking strength of at least about 15 pounds is required. In some cases the sliver prepared as described above which can be in crimped or uncrimped form inherently has sufficient strength such that it can be directly subjected to step incorporation into a filter element.

However in certain embodiments the strength of the sliver is insufficient to be directly incorporated into a filter element using methods generally used in the art. For example in certain embodiments the breaking strength of a sliver in undrafted form or having been subjected to some degree of drafting according to the invention is between about 0.5 and about 1.5 pounds e.g. between about 200 g and about 600 g load at maximum load with a percent strain at maximum load of between about 20 and about 50 . In some embodiments it may be possible to adapt the subsequent processing steps to accommodate a sliver input having low strength. For example the sliver can in some embodiments have sufficient strength that it can be introduced into a machine for further processing at a very slow feed rate to ensure that the sliver is not undesirably affected e.g. broken or stretched in the process.

It can in certain embodiments be advantageous to optimize one or more steps of the sliver production process and or to add additional steps to the sliver production process in order to enhance the breaking strength of the sliver. Enhanced strength can in some embodiments allow the sliver to be directly processed on conventional filter making machinery. For example in some embodiments a breaking strength of between about 10 and about 20 lbs about 4500 g to about 9100 g such as at least about 10 lbs about 4500 g or at least about 15 lbs about 6800 g is desirable.

In some embodiments as noted above the sliver is strengthened prior to being incorporated into a filter element. In certain embodiments the sliver can be strengthened directly shown as step of and then incorporated into a filter element in step . In certain embodiments the sliver is first crimped as described above and then strengthened via step before being incorporated into a filter element in step . In some embodiments the sliver may be strengthened such that it can be subjected to traditional processing e.g. high speed processing for the production of filter elements with little or no adaptations to accommodate the sliver. Numerous methods are known for strengthening such a material. In certain exemplary embodiments the strengthening can comprise air entangling core yarn insertion textured yarn insertion partial plasticization or a combination thereof although other methods that can function to strengthen the sliver are also intended to be encompassed herein.

Air entangling generally comprises using one or more air jets configured to direct air at the sliver. It is understood that the feed rate of the sliver into an air entangling system should be carefully controlled to ensure that a high quality entangled sliver is produced. Typically a sliver that has been subjected to air entangling at step exhibits enhanced entangling of the constituent fibers or filaments with a plurality of bulked portions separated in areas where the fibers or filaments are held together. For discussions of air entangling and descriptions of exemplary equipment used therefor see for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 570 312 to Whitener which is incorporated herein by reference.

Yarn insertion including core yarn insertion and textured yarn insertion generally comprises incorporating one or more yarns in the interior of the sliver or in the center of multiple slivers. The sliver can in some embodiments be wrapped around one or more yarns. In some embodiments one or more yarns can be embedded within the sliver. The type of core yarn incorporated into the sliver at step can vary and may be for example any of the types of fibers discussed herein or for example cotton yarn elastic yarn polymeric yarn or cellulose acetate. Yarns can be textured for example via the methods described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 399 to Sebastian et al filed Sep. 23 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference. For further discussions of exemplary configurations and methods for inserting yarn see for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 484 522 to Jupe U.S. Pat. No. 6 370 858 to Mori and US Pat Appl. Pub. Nos. 2010 0294288 to Sampson et al. and 2009 0288672 to Hutchens et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

Partial plasticization generally requires the addition of a plasticizer i.e. a material that is capable of softening one or more components of the sliver. Plasticizer is optionally applied to the drafted sliver and may in certain embodiments be applied in traditional amounts using known techniques. For example plasticizer application may involve applying e.g. via spraying or wick application a plasticizer to the sliver to produce a plasticized fiber product. Plasticizer application at operation may in some embodiments be conducted for the purpose of ultimately bonding the filaments of the tow to one another to produce a relatively firm and rigid structure configured to not soften or collapse during smoking. Various types of plasticizers are known and can be employed according to the method disclosed herein. For example glyceryl triacetate triacetin carbowax diacetates dipropionates and dibutyrates of triethylene glycol tetraethylene glycol and pentaethylene glycol levulinic acid esters phthalic acid esters e.g. dimethyl phthalate dibutyl phthalate dioctyl phthalate phosphoric esters e.g. tris monochloroethyl phosphate tris 2 3 dichloropropyl phosphate and tris 2 3 dibromopropyl phosphate and combinations thereof. In one embodiment the plasticizer may comprise triacetin and carbowax in a 1 1 ratio by weight. The total amount of plasticizer may be generally about 4 to about 20 percent by weight preferably about 6 to about 12 percent by weight of the filter material. Other suitable materials or additives used in connection with the construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers which is incorporated herein by reference.

The mixed fiber sliver which can be optionally crimped and or optionally strengthened is incorporated within a filter element via step . This step can be accomplished by traditional techniques known in the art such as those described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 241 399 to Sebastian et al filed Sep. 23 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference. In certain embodiments the mixed fiber sliver can be subjected to one or more rod making operations which may include shaping of the drafted mixed fiber sliver. For example the mixed fiber sliver may be compressed or otherwise shaped to form a continuous cylindrical rod shape.

The system used in the production of a filter according to the invention may differ from existing embodiments of systems configured to manufacture cigarettes in that the separation operations typically required in such systems e.g. tow opening crimp removal and blooming may not be necessary. This may be possible because the processes of the invention are in certain embodiments capable of combining the staple fibers in the manner described above such that the staple fibers are entangled so as to provide a substantially evenly mixed distribution of the fibers and sufficiently separated allowing plasticizer to effectively penetrate the mixed fiber product. Accordingly the system in combination with the cigarette production methods described herein may in some embodiments provide a means to combine two or more fibrous tow inputs while avoiding the need for separation operations e.g. tow opening crimp removal and blooming following the mixing step since the mixed fiber sliver produced may resemble bloomed tow.

The rod making operations may additionally include cutting the mixed fiber sliver into segments. In this regard the sliver may be longitudinally subdivided into cylindrical shaped filter segments. In some embodiments the length of the filter segments may be selected based on a desired length of the filter element for a single cigarette. By way of further example in another embodiment the filter segments may be cut to lengths which are equivalent to two times the length of the filter element for a single cigarette and the filter segment may be cut in two at a later time. For example the filter segment may connect two rods of tobacco and the filter segment may be divided to form the filters for two cigarettes.

The measurements of filter segments depend on the particular application thereof but typically filter segments for cigarettes may range in length from about 80 mm to about 140 mm and from about 16 mm to about 27 mm in circumference. For example a typical filter segment having a 100 mm length and a 24.53 mm circumference may exhibit a pressure drop of from about 200 mm to about 400 mm of water as determined at an airflow rate of 17.5 cubic centimeters per second cc sec. using an encapsulated pressure drop tester sold commercially as Model No. FTS 300 by Filtrona Corporation Richmond Va.

Certain embodiments of the system employing the production of a mixed fiber sliver of the present invention may provide benefits both in terms of allowing for combination of multiple fibers and in terms of reducing the number of operations required to produce the filter elements. Further the operations performed after production of the mixed fiber product may be substantially the same as those performed in traditional systems for producing smoking articles. Thus existing cigarette production equipment may be utilized. For example the plasticized fiber product may be subjected to one or more rod making operations in which the plasticized fiber product is wrapped with a plug wrap.

The mixed fiber sliver may be wrapped with the plug wrap such that each end of the filter material remains exposed. The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Suitable plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers ranging in porosity from about 1100 CORESTA units to about 26000 CORESTA units are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 70 M9 95 M9 150 M4 150 M9 240M9S 260 M4 and 260 M4T and from Miquel y Costas as 22HP90 and 22HP150. Non porous plug wrap materials typically exhibit porosities of less than about 40 CORESTA units and often less than about 20 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic as PW646 Wattenspapier of Austria as FY 33060 Miquel y Costas of Spain as 646 and Schweitzer Mauduit International as MR650 and 180. Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the mixed fiber sliver with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate nitrocellulose nitrocellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

If desired so called non wrapped acetate filter segments may also be produced. Such segments are produced using the types of techniques generally set forth herein. However rather than employing a plug wrap that circumscribes the longitudinally extending periphery of the filter material a somewhat rigid rod is provided for example by applying steam to the shaped mixed fiber sliver. Techniques for commercially manufacturing non wrapped acetate filter rods are possessed by Filtrona Corporation Richmond Va.

Accordingly shaped cut and or wrapped or non wrapped filter elements may be produced by the rod making operation s . The above described system may employ equipment capable of providing a mixed fiber product while avoiding the need for separation operations e.g. tow opening crimp removal and blooming since the mixed fiber product produced by the carding apparatus may resemble bloomed tow. The system may be further incorporated within a larger cigarette making operation. The cigarette making operations may include wrapping a supply of smokable material with a wrapping material to form a smokable rod.

Cigarette making operations used in combination with the filter preparation process shown in and described above may be conducted using a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Generally automated cigarette making machines provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or other smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths. The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 131 416 to Gentry U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. and US Pat. Appl. Pub. Nos. 2003 0145866 to Hartman 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Filter elements produced in accordance with this disclosure may be incorporated within conventional cigarettes configured for combustion of a smokable material and also within the types of cigarettes set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 756 318 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 714 082 to Banerjee et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 771 795 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 793 365 to Sensabaugh et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 989 619 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 917 128 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 961 438 to Korte U.S. Pat. No. 4 966 171 to Serrano et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 969 476 to Bale et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 991 606 to Serrano et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 020 548 to Farrier et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 027 836 to Shannon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 033 483 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 040 551 to Schlatter et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 050 621 to Creighton et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 052 413 to Baker et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 065 776 to Lawson U.S. Pat. No. 5 076 296 to Nystrom et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 076 297 to Farrier et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 099 861 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 835 to Drewett et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 837 to Barnes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 115 820 to Hauser et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 148 821 to Best et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 159 940 to Hayward et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 178 167 to Riggs et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 183 062 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 211 684 to Shannon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 240 014 to Deevi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 240 016 to Nichols et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 345 955 to Clearman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 911 to Casey III et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 551 451 to Riggs et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 595 577 to Bensalem et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 727 571 to Meiring et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 751 to Barnes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 089 857 to Matsuura et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 095 152 to Beven et al and U.S. Pat. No. 6 578 584 to Beven which are incorporated herein by reference. Still further filter elements produced in accordance with the description provided above may be incorporated within the types of cigarettes that have been commercially marketed under the brand names Premier and Eclipse by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. See for example those types of cigarettes described in Chemical and Biological Studies on New Cigarette Prototypes that Heat Instead of Burn Tobacco R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Monograph 1988 and Inhalation Toxicology 12 5 p. 1 58 2000 which are incorporated herein by reference. Other examples of non traditional cigarettes commonly referred to as e cigarettes which could incorporate a filter element of the present invention include U.S. Pat. No. 7 726 320 to Robinson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 8 079 371 to Robinson et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 205 841 to Worm et al. filed on Aug. 9 2011 Ser. No. 13 432 406 to Griffith Jr. et al. filed on Mar. 28 2012 and Ser. No. 13 536 438 to Sebastian et al filed on Jun. 28 2012 all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The smokable material employed in manufacture of the smokable rod can vary. For example the smokable material can have the form of filler e.g. such as tobacco cut filler . As used herein the terms filler or cut filler are meant to include tobacco materials and other smokable materials which have a form suitable for use in the manufacture of smokable rods. As such filler can include smokable materials which are blended and are in a form ready for cigarette manufacturer. The filler materials normally are employed in the form of strands or shreds as is common in conventional cigarette manufacture. For example the cut filler material can be employed in the form of strands or shreds from sheet like or strip materials which are cut into widths ranging from about 1 20 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably from about 1 25 inch to about 1 35 inch. Generally such strands or shreds have lengths which range from about 0.25 inch to about 3 inches.

Examples of suitable types of tobacco materials include flue cured Burley Md. or Oriental tobaccos rare or specialty tobaccos and blends thereof. The tobacco material can be provided in the form of tobacco lamina processed tobacco processed tobacco stems such as cut rolled or cut puffed stems reconstituted tobacco materials or blends thereof. The smokable material or blend of smokable materials may consist essentially of tobacco filler material. Smokable materials can also be cased and top dressed as is conventionally performed during various stages of cigarette manufacture.

Typically the smokable rod has a length which ranges from about 35 mm to about 85 mm preferably about 40 to about 70 mm and a circumference of about 17 mm to about 27 mm preferably about 22.5 mm to about 25 mm. Short cigarette rods i.e. having lengths from about 35 to about 50 mm can be employed particularly when smokable blends having a relatively high packing density are employed.

The wrapping material can vary and typically is a cigarette wrapping material having a low air permeability value. For example such wrapping materials can have air permeabilities of less than about 5 CORESTA units. Such wrapping materials include a cellulosic base web e.g. provided from wood pulp and or flax fibers and inorganic filler material e.g. calcium carbonate and or magnesium hydroxide particles . A suitable wrapping material is a cigarette paper consisting essentially of calcium carbonate and flax. Particularly preferred wrapping materials include an amount of a polymeric film forming agent sufficient to provide a desirably low air permeability. Exemplary wrapping materials 164 are P 2540 80 P 2540 81 P 2540 82 P 2540 83 P 2540 84 and P 2831 102 available from Kimberly Clark Corporation and TOD 03816 TOD 05504 TOD 05560 and TOD 05551 available from Ecusta Corporation.

The packing densities of the blend of smokable materials contained within the wrapping materials can vary. Typical packing densities for smokable rods may range from about 150 to about 300 mg cm. Normally packing densities of the smokable rods range from about 200 to about 280 mg cm.

Further the cigarette making operations may include attaching the mixed fiber sliver based filter element to the smokable rod. For example the filter element and a portion of the smokable rod may be circumscribed by a tipping material with an adhesive configured to bind to the filter element and the tobacco rod so as to couple the mixed fiber sliver based filter element to an end of the tobacco rod.

Typically the tipping material circumscribes the filter element and an adjacent region of the smokable rod such that the tipping material extends about 3 mm to about 6 mm along the length of the smokable rod. Typically the tipping material is a conventional paper tipping material. The tipping material can have a permeability which can vary. For example the tipping material can be essentially air impermeable air permeable or be treated e.g. by mechanical or laser perforation techniques so as to have a region of perforations openings or vents thereby providing a means for providing air dilution to the cigarette. The total surface area of the perforations and the positioning of the perforations along the periphery of the cigarette can be varied in order to control the performance characteristics of the cigarette.

Accordingly cigarettes or other smokable articles may be produced in accordance with the above described example embodiments or under various other embodiments of systems and methods for producing cigarettes. The cigarette making operations performed after production of the mixed fiber sliver as described above may in certain embodiments be substantially the same as those performed in traditional systems for producing smoking articles. Thus existing cigarette production equipment may be utilized. It is noted that the system for forming cigarettes may also include other apparatuses and components that correspond with the operations discussed above.

At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the mouth end is positioned a mixed fiber sliver . The mixed fiber sliver may be produced by the apparatuses systems and methods disclosed herein. The mixed sliver based filter element may have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof may be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod . The mixed sliver based filter is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of outer plug wrap to form a filter element. The filter element is positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough.

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap . The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. Alternatively so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping material . For cigarettes that are air diluted or ventilated the amount or degree of air dilution or ventilation can vary. Frequently the amount of air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is greater than about 10 percent generally is greater than about 20 percent often is greater than about 30 percent and sometimes is greater than about 40 percent. Typically the upper level for air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is less than about 80 percent and often is less than about 70 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution means to the total volume and air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette. The plasticized fiber product may be attached to the tobacco rod using the tipping material e.g. essentially air impermeable tipping material that circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod . The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive and hence the filter element and the tobacco rod are connected to one another to form the cigarette .

Acetate tow 40 000 denier 3.0 dpf supplied by Eastman Chemical Company and rayon tow 1.5 million denier 3.0 dpf supplied by Lenzing are separately cut into 7 inch staple fibers. The staple fibers are combined in a 1 1 ratio by hand blending.

The blended staple fibers are fed in 1 lb increments to a mini card feed apron and processed through a roller top card Carolina Specialty TTC Mini Card . The resulting sliver is a 90 100 grain per yard sliver having a denier of about 57 000 64 000 denier.

The sliver at this point has a breaking strength of about 1 pound at maximum load. It is noted that this data is based on an unoptimized sliver. As described in the present application there are numerous ways of increasing the strength such as by twisting the sliver or by inserting a fiber along the length of the sliver. Further the carding method can be optimized in certain embodiments to provide a sliver having a more manageable strength for use in traditional filter manufacturing equipment.

Four ends of the slivers are fed into a pin drafting unit Warner Swasey Co. in a 243 000 denier total weight. The drafting unit is set to produce a 40 000 denier sliver. Although the drafting process successfully provided a drafted sliver the product was not optimal. The drafted sliver was splotchy in certain areas resulting from concentrated regions of acetate staple fibers many of the acetate staple fibers were damaged and the drafted sliver was overall difficult to process relatively weak and not homogeneous. Further optimization of the methods and materials as provided by the present disclosure are thus desirable to provide a drafted sliver having more desirable physical properties.

As described above one means for strengthening a sliver according to the invention is to insert another type of material so as to produce a product having a sheath core type structure.

A 10 000 denier textured cellulose acetate yarn is fed into the pin drafting unit so as to provide the yarn as a core within the drafted sliver. It is noted that again the drafting step was not optimized and thus the same type of inhomogeneous product was produced and the sheath core drafted sliver was uneven. The strengthened sliver exhibited a breaking strength of 16 lbs.

A 24.0 denier 3 dpf 100 spun KEVLAR poly paraphenylene terephthalamide is fed into the carding unit so as to provide the KEVLAR as a core within the sliver. The strengthened sliver exhibited a breaking strength of 10 pounds.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the disclosure will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this disclosure pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present disclosure can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

