---

title: System and method to create a collaborative workflow environment
abstract: The present invention relates a method, computer system and a computer readable medium for creating a collaborative workflow process in a shared network space wherein the shared space is created by interaction of executable codes in a host and a user application and the shared space is described by a session attribute list; loading a media application with a plurality of tools into one or more user computers; inputting multi type content into the shared space; and displaying the content by computers in one of a synchronous or asynchronous mode; selecting a procedural framework template for the creation of a workflow process; and adding a content process section, a discussion point section, an approval section, a hand-off section; and storing state of the procedural framework.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935334&OS=08935334&RS=08935334
owner: Simulat, Inc.
number: 08935334
owner_city: Berkeley
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121009
---
This is a continuation in part of and claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. Pat. No. 7 933 956 entitled A System and Method to Create a Collaborative Web based Multimedia Layered Platform filed Jan. 24 2007 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 888 271 entitled System and Method to Create a Collaborative Web based Multimedia Contextual Document filed May 30 2012 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 319 807 entitled System and Method to Create a Collaborative Web based Multimedia Contextual Dialogue filed on Jan. 13 2009 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 378 805 filed Feb. 20 2009 entitled System and Method to Create a Collaborative Web based Multimedia Contextual Document now abandoned and additionally claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 761 529 entitled A System and Method to Create a Collaborative Web Based Multimedia Layered Platform filed on Jan. 24 2006 each of the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

This invention generally relates to the field of asynchronous and synchronous web document production methods and systems.

In the last few years there has been an explosion in new forms of web based communication within a shared space. The synchronous form is most commonly practiced as Online Chat. With synchronous communication like Online Chat for example text is exchanged in real time between participants. Although images can be provided to a limited extent links to images or other multimedia is more commonly used. Another common form of synchronous communication is with web conferencing services. These services provide a discrete state synchronicity such that only one image can be shared at one time. Typically once the session has ended the images shared are lost. Many of the current online collaboration systems are beginning to record the sessions. However these recording are only recoding a series of images for play back.

The most common asynchronous forms of collaboration are Forums blogs and WIKIs. In the asynchronous case visitors can upload text or images so that all subsequent visitors can browse and see the text or images. Blogs and forums have an advantage over Chat in that conversations can be linked into threads . This allows the user to follow a set of contributions in a linear and or nested fashion. Lacking is the real time aspect as well as the ability to layer media. Currently even if you can upload an image or multimedia clip into a chat room or blog visitors do no alter manipulate or annotate over the original posting. What is common to these forms of shared communication is that they are linear. All information whether text or image is accessed in order. A comment in a blog about an image does not appear on top of the image but instead next to it as with threads . The same holds true for a chat box. Users must cut and paste to refer to a past event.

Lacking is a system that will allow both synchronous and asynchronous communication using discrete media layers such that information can be organized by time and space which in turn can allow for a variety of organizational metaphors.

It will be desirable that multiple users are able to interact with one another and perform a plurality of multimedia tasks in a virtual and synchronized shared environment or to be able to access and review the performed tasks from local or remote sources at will in any order. It will also be desirable to allow users to set control or restrict the viewing of media layers in the same shared environment through different filtering algorithms. It is also desirable that an original image can seem to be altered or manipulated by overlaying various media layers together.

The following terminologies used in the application are selectively defined by online dictionaries such as Wikipedia to help understanding 

Account Owner creator The person who owns creates or maintains or provided stewardship over a particular session and all options rights relevant to that session.

Annotation Extra information associated with a particular point in a document or other piece of information.

API An application programming interface API is the interface that a computer system or application provides in order to allow requests for service to be made of it by other computer programs and or to allow data to be exchanged between them

Blog A blog is a website in which journal entries are posted on a regular basis and displayed in reverse chronological order. The term blog is a shortened form for web log. Authoring a blog maintaining a blog or adding an article to an existing blog is called blogging . Individual articles on a blog are called blog posts posts or entries . A person who posts these entries is called a blogger . A blog comprises hypertext images and links to other WebPages and to video audio and other files . Blogs use a conversational documentation style. Often blogs focus on a particular area of interest such as Washington D.C. s political goings on. Some blogs discuss personal experiences.

Collection One or more media layers that have an organizational structure. Typically this is stored as an XML file.

Converter Programs for converting audio files video animations or applets of varying degrees of interactivity and function presentations documents spreadsheets among other files in the original data format to another format that allows information to be accessible through a browser using a media application.

Common Web Browser A web browser is a software application technically a type of HTTP client that enables a user to display and interact with HTML documents hosted by web servers or held in a file system. Popular browsers available for personal computers include Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Opera Netscape Apple Safar i and Konqueror . A browser is the most commonly used kind of user agent. The largest networked collection of linked documents is known as the World Wide Web. It is assumed that all common web browser will have Macromedia Flash installed or will support the installation and proper execution of Flash applications.

Dynamic button A clickable link that can jump the user to a different page in the same book a different book generate a new email in the users local email application or send the user to a web page in a new browser window.

Media layer media layer layer A media layer is defined as a container that supports the display and modification of media and plug ins. Media layers have meta information or attributes such as author time date created its parent media container a list of children media containers position within 3D space stacking order relative to the parent media layer size reference to media or a plug in that is assigned to the media layer etc

Media multi Multimedia is the use of several different media to convey information text audio graphics animation video and interactivity .

Medium defined as the singular of multimedia. For example text a media is a singular example of multimedia.

Network A computer network is two or more computers connected together using a telecommunication system for the purpose of communicating and sharing resources. Examples include but are not limited to a WAN or LAN connection or an internet intranet or extranet connection.

Online Chat Online chat can refer to any kind of communication over the internet but is primarily meant to refer to direct 1 on 1 chat or chat rooms using tools such as instant messenger applications computer programs Internet Relay Chat talkers and possibly MUDs MUCKs MUSHes and MOOes.

Plug in A plug in is a computer program that can or must interact with another program to provide a certain usually very specific function. Typical examples are plug in to display specific graphic formats e.g. SVG if the browser doesn t support this format natively to play multimedia files to encrypt decrypt email e.g. PGP or to filter images in graphic programs. The main program a web browser or an email client for example provides a way for plug in to register themselves with the program and a protocol by which data is exchanged with plug in. Plug ins are slightly different from extensions which modify or add to existing functionality. The main difference is that plug in generally run within a sandbox rely on the main program s user interface and have a well defined boundary to their possible set of actions.

Room A Room is a common reference to a shared space . A room contains default tools rules and permissions that are set and controlled by the room administrator.

Space A shared virtual reference point where as multiple users can interact in real time upon shared objects.

Space Creator The User creates an account to which a space is allocated where other individuals also using a browser can engage in the synchronized or unsynchronized viewing and annotating of images.

Stage A reference coordinate system that informs where media should be displayed. The most typical stage is a two dimensional Cartesian coordinate system where 0 0 is position in the upper right of the display area.

Sidebar panel a window within a browser such as Windows desktop Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation . Sidebars often perform various tasks such as displaying the time and date and showing the CPU usage.

Threads Threads in a forum are either flat posts are listed in chronological order or threaded each post is made in reply to a parent post . Sometimes community members have a choice on how to display threads.

Web based shared space This describes a single point of reference for multiple users to access and add and modify information from a web browser for viewing by others via that same point of reference.

WIKI A website that allows the visitors themselves to easily add remove and otherwise edit and change available content and typically without the need for registration.

Whiteboard a drawing utility commonly supplied as part of a collaboration framework to allow distributed users to share a common drawing space.

The present invention relates to the field of collaborative computing in a shared network space and more particularly to a computer method for managing a work flow collaborative file having a GUI including a display and a selection device for displaying a procedural framework the method includes the steps of 

The method herein also includes a second user performing one of the steps of approving or disapproving the completion of a section in the procedural framework and or each of limitations in items 1 4 sections above are completed.

The present invention relates to the field of collaborative computing and more particularly to a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for creating a work flow collaborative file in a shared network space includes the steps of 

The invention also relates to a method wherein the media application is by way of example and not limitation a Flash application Java application or browser based scripts.

The invention also relates to a method of a user moving pages in the workflow between one or more rooms and to from a website on the World Wide Web.

The invention also relates to a method of using a template to permit content creators to decide where to place the content within a workflow using the template to dynamically swap in and out pages within the room as dictated by the use to which the workflow are put and using the template to permit the use of one or more of dynamic buttons and plug in features such that users of the workflow template may access tables of content that reside within one or more libraries having tables of content.

The invention further relates to methods for publishing the room storing the procedural framework in a library for publication embedding the procedural framework into in any web property embedding into the procedural framework as an autonomous software agent to trigger one of the creation duplication and or publication of copies of procedural framework and filtering viewing permission copying and publication.

A computer system for creating a work flow collaborative procedural framework in a shared space within a network includes a host server that communicates to a database and a file storage through a network a user machine with a user application that logs to the host server to join a shared space session with other user machines running user applications wherein the shared space session is generated by interaction of executable codes in the host and the user application and the shared space session is described by a session attribute list 

a first memory for storing application code with a plurality of tools into one or more user computers 

an input device for inputting multi type content including one or more of text documents graphic images video images audio or data files into the shared space a stage manager tool from the media application to stage and correlate a plurality of media layers according to spatial temporal and relational coordinate data in the user application wherein the media layers data are described by a file descriptor inputting multi type content including one or more of text documents graphic images video images or data files into the shared space 

and a display for displaying the content by computers in the shared space in one of a synchronous or asynchronous mode 

a second memory for storing a collaborative procedural framework templates to create pages with specific layouts b plug ins for each type content for searching additional resource information c converters for accessing through a browser the content of the procedural frameworks each such procedural framework including 

The following description includes the best mode of carrying out the invention. The detailed description is made for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention and should not be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the invention is determined by reference to the claims. Each part is assigned even if structurally identical to another part a unique reference number wherever that part is shown in the drawing figures.

The present invention relates to the field of collaborative computing and more particularly to a system and method for providing a browser based program to create and configure a shared space whereby multiple users can access this shared space to perform tasks and interact such as input modify text and delete images drawings and other multimedia via media layers in a real time synchronous manner. A shared space is defined as a virtual reference point whereas multiple users can interact in real time upon shared objects. It is a conceptual construct created by processing executable computer codes from a plurality of programs or plug ins typically using Flash Virtual Machine VM or Java VM. A session is defined as the state of all objects GUI tools and controls and media layers at any given time within the shared space. Each media layer can serve as a container for shapes and objects as well as other programs such as a text editor thumbnail viewer MP3 player games etc. The invention also allows which media layer s to display via organization metaphors and filtering criteria. The invention also allows for offline or unsynchronized interaction with objects of a session. Offline events are recorded for later integration with the session.

Server also may be configured in a distributed architecture wherein databases and processors are housed in separate units or locations. Some such servers perform primary processing functions and contain at a minimum a RAM a ROM and a general controller or processor. In such an embodiment each of these servers is attached to a communications hub or port that serves as a primary communication link with other servers such as web server or user computers e.g. and other related devices. The communications hub or port may have minimal processing capability itself serving primarily as a communications router establishing a corresponding link with the web server . A variety of communications protocols may be part of the system including but not limited to Ethernet SAP SAS ATP Bluetooth GSM and TCP IP.

Data storage devices such as file storage may include a hard magnetic disk drive optical storage units CD ROM drives or flash memory. Data storage devices contain databases such as database used in processing transactions and or calculations in accordance with the present invention including at least a user subscriber database and a user content database. In one embodiment database software creates and manages these databases. Conference related calculations and or algorithms of the present invention are stored in storage device and executed by the corresponding CPU.

The controller comprises a processor such as one or more conventional microprocessors and one or more supplementary co processors such as math co processors. The processor is in communication with a communication port through which the processor communicates with other devices such as other servers user terminals or devices. The communication port may include multiple communication channels for simultaneous communication with for example other processors servers or client terminals. As stated devices in communication with each other need not be continually transmitting to each other. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time and may require several steps to be performed to establish a communication link between the devices.

The processor also is in communication with a data storage device. The data storage device may comprise an appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory and may include for example RAM ROM flash drive an optical disc such as a compact disc and or a hard disk or drive. The processor and the data storage device each may be for example located entirely within a single computer or other computing device or connected to each other by a communication medium such as a USB port serial port cable a coaxial cable an Ethernet type cable a telephone line a radio frequency transceiver or other similar wireless or wired medium or combination of the foregoing.

The data storage device may store for example i a program e.g. computer program code and or a computer program product adapted to direct the processor in accordance with the present invention and particularly in accordance with the processes described in detail hereinafter ii a database adapted to store information that may be utilized to store information required by the program. The database includes multiple records each record including fields specific to the present invention such as membership rates subscribers sessions etc.

The program may be stored for example in a compressed an uncompiled and or an encrypted format and may include computer program code. The instructions of the program may be read into a main memory of the processor from a computer readable medium other than the data storage device such as from a ROM or from a RAM. While execution of sequences of instructions in the program causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of the processes of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

Suitable computer program code may be provided for performing numerous functions such as alternative steps of invention. The computer program code required to implement the above functions and the other functions described herein can be developed by a person of ordinary skill in the art and is not described in detail herein.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that provides or participates in providing instructions to the processor of the computing device or any other processor of a device described herein for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM or EEPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor or any other processor of a device described herein for execution. For example the instructions may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over an Ethernet connection cable line or even telephone line using a modem. A communications device local to a computing device or e.g. a server can receive the data on the respective communications line and place the data on a system bus for the processor. The system bus carries the data to main memory from which the processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored in memory either before or after execution by the processor. In addition instructions may be received via a communication port as electrical electromagnetic or optical signals which are exemplary forms of wireless communications or data streams that carry various types of information.

Server of the present invention may also interact and or control one or more user devices or terminals e.g. . The user device or terminal may include any one or a combination of a personal computer a mouse a keyboard a computer display a touch screen LCD voice recognition software or other generally represented by input output devices required to implement the above functionality. The program also may include program elements such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers that allow the processor to interface with computer peripheral devices e.g. a video display a keyboard a computer mouse etc. .

The shared spaces to emulate and share the contents of the session where executable computer codes in both the client or user computers to and the host . The executable codes in each computer may be different but the intended results of the invention are achieved. The state of the session is maintained on the host during a live session then the database at the end of a session. All client or user computers to that are logged into a session are constantly updated with changes to the session in real time. If permissions are granted any client can initiate a change to the state of the live session. Once this change has been sent all client computers to are updated with the change.

The system A comprises of a host in synchronous communication with one or more user computers to . In an embodiment the host is a server in communication with a database where the host is also in communication with a web server that communicates with a file storage . The database can be in a separate server or can be part of the host within the same server . Similarly the web server and the file storage can be separate units or can be integrated into a server . Yet in another embodiment a host is a server including the functions of the database the web server and the file storage . The physical location of the database file storage and the method of writing the computer executable codes being integrated into the host server is not important to the invention as long as the functions are accessible to the host and to the user computers to .

In an embodiment each of the user computers to has an operating system to such as the Microsoft Windows XP Linux Macintosh OSX or any third party operating system. The operating system in each of the user computers to need not be the same as long as it supports a web browser or other application to access the internet and supports the execution of codes to facilitate the intended media functions of the invention. In another embodiment compiled Flash VM executable codes of the application are downloaded before the creation of a shared space to to each of the user computers to from the host session through the network and links to . Yet in another embodiment the application can be native to each of the user computers to as media applications to

One or more media layers to are created and respective media tools are from media applications to is generated by the interaction of the codes in the user computers to and the codes from the host server . The network and the corresponding links to are part of the Wide Area Networks WAN Local Area Network LAN through Ethernet connections or wireless connections. Yet in other embodiments the network and the links can be Local Optical Networks LON or direct fiber optic links or direct terminal connections or plain old telephone service POTS . In all forms of link communications within the network the communications can be enhanced with known encryption protocols to improve security.

All services as contained within the host server are equipment selected from the list to include a server work station personal computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA an Intelligent Electronic Device IED or any suitable computing platform with sufficient memory and processing power to perform the functions as a server in a network environment. The user computers to are equipment selected from the list to include a server work station terminal personal computer lap top computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA electronic tablet handheld wireless device a cellular phone an Intelligent Electronic Device IED or any suitable computing platform with sufficient memory and processing power to perform the functions as a user computer to perform media inputs in a network environment.

Yet in others embodiments the system A can be extended to include broad applications such as web conferencing local conference presentations projecting synchronized annotations or pointing tool to contents on multiple screens to mass audience on line interactive courses and tutoring live interactive interviews to multiple interviewees in different geographical locations interactive debate forums using multimedia interactive cellular phone chats and games secured synchronized interactive voting method combined with secured voter identification live military battlefield operational command remote interactive clinical instructions and operation training procedure and electric power utility interactive service support and trouble shooting etc. Said examples and the contents desired for the execution of said example can be assembled before and during synchronized events. Content can also be made available in an unsynchronized fashion such that independent content review or read only publishing can be supported.

In an embodiment the initialization of the system B in the synchronized state requires that the user s or client s computer has internet access through link to network and the ability to support compiled Flash based applications. A typical configuration will involve the use of a common web browser with a flash plug in and JavaScript enabled. Through the use of a URL the user or client makes a request to join a session by sending login credentials to the host . The host in turn will query the database to determine the tools that must be downloaded and the current session state parameters. In addition plug ins and are sometimes downloaded from third party servers and . Instruction and location of said plug ins and are provided by the host

The host first sends a base application that provides a synchronizing connection between that user and the host . A standard socket connection is established. Should this fail High Ports are tested for the ability to exchange data. Should this fail ports and are checked via standard HTTP protocols. Once a connection by links and from the user to the host has been established the host will send a list of required application tools to be loaded by the user computer . By only loading those tools that are required the system in the user s computer will start faster with a lower memory requirement. Should the user choose to run in thin mode those tools that are only needed on demand will be loaded into memory during their use and unloaded after their use is no longer required.

FIG. C is an embodiment of a system C illustrating the process of establishing and operating a session within a user application such as a web browser using various tools in Flash application . When a user logs onto the system C via the internet LAN or WAN the user is registered in a shared virtual environment session based on user s credentials and other parameters supplied at log on. In this exemplary example the flash application is loaded on to the client s computer by the client s web browser . This flash application in turn loads a communication synchronizer application that contacts the Host s server synchronization service and requests to be registered with a particular shared space for a session. Once this connection has been established all communication between the client application and the host sync service happen between these two applications.

Based on user credentials and other parameters supplied a list of tools and their location s on the file storage server s is generated. This list is passed to the flash application . The flash application then loads a stage manager tool into the buffer memory from the web server . This tool creates and manages the stage . Once this is done the flash application then sends a message back to the file storage server via sync application .

One of the tools that are loaded is the stage manager . This tool once loaded looks at the attribute list of the current room for the session. One item on that list is the type of layout to be used on the stage. If any other layout is defined besides default additional tools are downloaded to support the additional features. The stage manager is then provided a list of media layers to . Those media layers that are listed as active should be currently displayed. Active media layers and are accessed loaded and displayed on the stage . Once complete non active media layer s are downloaded and stored in cache memory in a prescribed order if this option was selected. All of the media layers together both loaded and unloaded to are called a collection . The relationship of all media layers to to each other can be stored in an XML file known as the collection . The most exemplary example is the default stage manager system where all media layers are displayed using the Cartesian coordinate system where the y axis is inverted. An example XML collection file follows TABLE US 00001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The stage manager tool then checks to see what type of collection has been loaded. In this case it is a book simple type collection. The tools required for this type of layout is listed in the tools section of the XML. The client flash application then downloads into memory those tools listed.

FIG. C illustrates another embodiment of various components of the Flash application interacting with the user s media layers to on the stage . Although there are a number of possible combinations of tools that can be loaded the one tool that is always loaded is the stage manager . The stage manager tool among other things established the coordinate system and layout format that will be populated by media layers to . The most typical configuration of the stage is a two dimensional cardinal system where 0 0 is located on the upper left most side of the application window placed just under the displays for session and user information and controls. These controls are typically displayed at the top of the application window. The list of active media layers are passed to the stage manager . The media layers and that are tagged as visible are loaded first and then displayed in a stage .

A media layer is a container that serves as a reference point for media as well as other media layers. Since media layers can be attached to another media layer nesting of media layers can occur. For example a parent media layer contains an image of a human face on it. A child media layer is nested on top with a mustache drawn over the face and another child media layer is nested on top with eye glasses drawn. When the parent media layer s object is moved or hidden the two child media layer s objects will also move or be hidden thus maintaining their visual relationship. Each child however can have its visibility setting changed by a parent or another media layer in the patriarchy. A media layer from outside the patriarchy cannot modify a media layer unless such functionality is support by the system s API.

A screen shot is taken from the product Vyew in to illustrate the construct of a page . In page is a collection of media layers to . A media layer such as is a container to execute the codes of an application or a plug in. For example media layer contains a plug in where a plurality of media object elements can be executed such as to execute an mp3 music player in the media layer . Another example media layer is a gif image which is currently selected. It has the ability to render bitmaps and vector information images or animations directly to the display. Media layers can also display other compliant applications. The scale and position of a media layer can be modified by using tool which is part of toolset within the page . Each of the media layers to is referenced to a space coordinate origin of 0 0 0 at the upper left corner of the page . The attributes of the media layers to are referenced in a collection file descriptor such as in a XML file.

FIGS. F and F illustrate the construct of a Book metaphor using media layers created and managed by tools . After the stage manager invokes the book metaphor toolset a media layer labeled as cover of a book image is loaded into a tool that supports the book metaphor.

Another media layer could then be created as a page. The media layer of the page holds object elements such as a graphic of paper texture . This media layer of page would be set as a child to the media layer of the book as well as have the attribute of page 2 . A third media layer would contain an image and this media layer will have a Z value of 1 placing it over the page media layer and then set as a child to this page media layer. Other media layers with annotation and media can be added as children to either the page media layer or one of the media layers that has been already set as a child to the page media layer. When the book media layer is displayed on the stage not shown the other children media layers to would be hidden. When the user opens the book the cover media layer would hide and the page media layer with its children and subsequent generations would appear. Because we are employing a book metaphor tools of would be provided to the user that would assist in the visibility ordering and the setting of relationships between media layers to . The user would not know about child or parent or media layers only that they created a book and that they can add pages and then add content to those pages. In another example other metaphors not shown could be one of a 2.5D environment where media layers are expressed as 2D planes intermixed with 2.5D objects. A set of such as six media layers can be set as children to a parent media layer thus creating a cube for the 2.5D environment. These metaphors are supported with graphics that support the navigation and ordering of the multimedia elements that appear on each media layer. Since all media is displayed using media layers and all media layers can have their visibility stacking order position relationships etc. modified then various tools and GUI Graphical User Interface elements in the menu tool bars can be created to managed these attributes in a more user friendly method. Typically metaphors that humans are familiar with are used.

The issue of concurrent users in making an annotation to the media layer is addressed next. Unique to this invention is that ability to share in real time near real time as well as maintaining persistence the ability to create modify and delete media layers and the media elements associated with those media layers and regulate access to those media layers. In addition all tools and User Interface UI elements can be controlled at runtime based on commands from the stage manager. As such not all users logged into a shared space will see that same thing if such modifications are selected. For example the administrator of the shared space may wish to have all the tools made available to him or her. However all other users who are of type guest will not see any tools. Those users who are of type invited may see only a subset of tools that the administrator sees.

When a user is logged into the system actions that are performed on the media or changes to the media layer s attributes are tracked and sent to the server. The server maintains a log of the actions and the resulting status of media layers and their media. The server then repeats the actions to all users who are logged into the same session. When users enter in to a session they immediately load all active media layers media and plug ins. In this way every user who is logged into the system has a copy of the media elements and only has to execute the actions that were sent by the server. Since all users can if allowed by the administrator have their action communicated back to the server everyone s actions within the space is reflected on the display of all concurrent users. If the administer allows more then one user access to a media layer then only one action may occur at one time within a media layer. In other words if a user initiates an action no other actions can take place until the first action is complete. Concurrent actions can occur on separate media layers. The administrator can select that all actions on media layers are NOT locked. This means that if two users click on the same media layers media then whomever s event is sent last will have said event respected unless the object is deleted or somehow unable to execute the later event.

A whiteboard tool performs the unique function of creating a new media layer every time a line is started and then stopped. Each line and or shape in the whiteboard tool library is treated like an individual object on its own media layer.

For whatever metaphor employed the information required to create and support an ordering construct is managed by the stage manager. All rights to what media layers and tools are loaded seen and how they function is controlled by the user or administrator who created the space account . The administrator can pass the rights of a media layers and tools to anyone s or to everyone.

Interacting with media objects in a synchronized mode is discussed next. The stage manager tool of the system insures that all changes in state of a media layer or actions that are passed to the media layer from that media layer s contents is communicated to the host server to either be recorded or sent to some or all of the other client computers and . This is accomplished by the host server maintaining a list of all subscribed client computers to . As an event is received from a client computer that event is logged and stored either on the host server and or on the database . This event is then passed to the rest of the client computers on the subscriber list. The event is then replicated on all client computers however in rare cases an exception rule can intercept the event and then follow a defined action which may or may not mimic the original event. For example a client computer may click on an object in a media layer 002 thus making that object interactive. The client then moves the object 002 from one location to another thus creating an event. The changed media layer attribute information in this case Position X Position Y date last modified to the host server as an event. The host server records this new information and then sends this event information to all subscribed client computers to . Users on the client computers to would then see the same object from the original location to the new location as indicated by the terms of the event.

Alternately other input devices such as but not limited to a wireless PDA or electronic tablet a keyboard a mouse optical pointer USB flash memory stylus audio or video equipment such as a video camera or microphone or both can also be sent as inputs to the shared space to . The cellular phones to voice input can be integrated as a media layer over the other text or graphic layers during the teleconferencing.

The shared environment is multi dimensional thus allowing users to to sort information by not only content but spatial temporal and inter relationships between the media layers created. Because the shared space to is virtual and not restricted to one image more then one media can be placed within the same shared space to

A knowledge workflow generally defines a sequence of operations to be performed by individuals that are by way of example teachers or students in learning environments production management planners and coordinators engineering development personnel software developers marketing and sale s personnel loan processing agents employment application specialists insurance claims management and personnel purchase agents involved in purchasing requisitions online credit verification individuals patient medical records management staff personnel involved in the distribution and sign off of business documents editorial steps in a production environment.

The system and method of this invention permits any cohort member which may include employees students and collaborators working as a group to automatically transmit information to and receive information from others in the group. As illustrated in and B the computer based collaboration may occur locally among users connected to or operating with one computer and server or over a network such as the Internet wherein each of the users is located at a computer connected to the network. One of these models is a client server model in which all collaborators are connected at the same time or asynchronously i.e. different times via the network to a central server. Information generated by each collaborator is sent over the network to the server that then broadcasts the information back over the network where it is viewable by other collaborators. In accordance with the foregoing users can be invited into enter and leave a shared space during an ongoing project. The project work flow responds to user activity and interactions within the shared space by generating changes or signaling completions.

As used herein manuals and other documents generated in accordance with the present invention are by way of example and not limitation referred to as electronic documents such as catalogs forms electronic manuals electronic research papers but is not limited to text images and workflow which optionally may contain formatting tags such as Hyper Text Markup Language tags Extensible Markup Language tags other meta tags as well as words used for formatting such as those embedded with rich text format documents.

By way of an overview the computer system readable medium and method to track the activities residing in a procedural framework or more generally a procedural framework procedural framework is illustrated in . By way of example a user such as a manager can view the procedural framework and determine at a glance the status of a project in each room See for a depiction of a room for each project. Typically when dealing with knowledge work groups four components exist 1. Content or a collection of content that may be pertinent to a project user 2. Discussion where one or more discussion points exist for recommending courses of action raising questions reporting status making resolutions or drawing conclusions 3. Approval pertaining to the title of the section 5. Hand off which completes the general cycle of knowledge work flow. If a manager looks at a collection of procedural framework each procedural framework being a page then a manager can see the status of every project under management. All such procedural framework pages can be collected in one room then by browsing the pages of this room a manager or instructor will be able to see the progress of all the projects under management or each student s progress.

Referring again to to generate the procedural framework such as procedural framework a user may start with a blank slate and build section by section by clicking Add section as is provided for in a user interactive browser such browser graphic and word processing technology is well known by those of ordinary skill in the art of programming then adding for example at column heading Content a section heading such as Welcome letter followed by adding under the column heading titled Discussion section heading About the product etc. The Discussion column contains in this example four sections. Each section can have multiple items listed for discussions. Returning our attention to Content section contains Brand Introduction . If a user clicks on the Brand Introduction it is hyperlinked to jump to a related page that will include more information related to the subject Brand Introduction . As the user pages through an item in the sections of section by way of example the items as listed in Discussions remain on every page until the user transitions to the next section e.g. the Product Catalog in section . This is illustrated in .

In the Approval section the user can click on a button within that column and assign and or request approval as required from certain individual. This then will set up a reminder in the pages of that section requesting approval. When approval is requested and when the appropriate individual approves the section or the content in the section then the entire room where all the content resides for that procedural framework See is permanently stored i.e. the state of the room is saved indefinitely. At least one motivation for permanency is so that if there is inquiry or debate regarding a project such as by way of example a particular approval the exact state of the room with all the content and discussions can be restored for review.

More particularly with reference to the invention more particularly relates to the field of collaborative computing in a shared network space and to a computer method for managing a work flow collaborative file having a GUI including a display and a selection device for displaying a procedural framework the method includes the steps of accessing one or more user computers in the shared space in the network wherein the shared space is created by interaction of executable codes in a host and a user application and the shared space is described by a session attribute list 

using a stage manager tool from the media application to stage and correlate a plurality of media layers according to spatial temporal and relational coordinate data in the user application wherein the media layers data are described by at least one file descriptor inputting multi type content including one or more of text documents graphic images video images audio or data files into the shared space 

selecting a procedural framework template for the creation of a workflow process or editing a procedural framework template or creating a procedural framework from the beginning 

Turning attention again to the method also includes a second user performing the steps of approving or disapproving the completion of a task as specified in a section such as sections . A method of the present invention further includes the step of a user moving the procedural framework between one of one or more room in a library or a website on the World Wide Web. A method of the present invention further includes 1. the step of a template containing one or more hotlinks meta tags and computer code placed in the directory of text documents graphic images video images audio or data files 2. the procedural framework template specifying where content are placed among the sections of the procedural framework 3. dynamically swapping in and out procedural framework within a room as dictated by the use to which the procedural framework is put 4. a user electronically notifying another user of the availability of procedural framework for one or more of viewing changing or accessing an information content resource 6. creating a derivative copy of the procedural framework 7 a user editing the procedural framework . The method of the present invention further includes the step of installing a conversion program for accessing through a browser text documents graphic images video images and audio or data files 8. tracing and storing the author time and content of the change 9. using a browser for one of uploading content creating a new procedural framework or scheduling a meeting 10. publishing the procedural framework 11. copying the procedural framework 12. embedding the procedural framework into in any web property 13. using a template to permit content creators to determine where to place the content within a workflow 14. using the template to dynamically swap in and out pages within the room as dictated by the use to which the workflow are put 15 using the template to permit the use of one or more of dynamic buttons and plug in features such that users of the workflow template may access tables of content that reside within one or more libraries having tables of content 14. one or more of embedding into the procedural framework in an autonomous software agent to trigger one of the creation duplication and or publication of copies or pages of the procedural framework 15. one or more of filtering to moderate and filter input viewing permission copying and publication. Each of the foregoing steps are programmed and embodied in executable software the programming required being well known by those of ordinary skill in the programming arts.

Many projects given their size and complexity require project management as well as both independent contribution and the collaboration of many individuals. Now referring to FIGS. and A by way of example a sales project for contacting potential customers may require column sub sections such as with user selectable titles that include by way of example and not limitation a welcome letter a brand introduction a product catalog a price list . The list may be expanded to include such items as product warranty or product installation manuals not shown . The present invention allows the incorporation of documents and actions into an activity workflow.

As depicted in and A each sub section may contain subparts that are contained in the subsections such as labeled for example as 1. PO which itself may have linkable embedded or accessible sub sub parts having detailed specifications for further documents presentations or actions not shown . The project creator may then generate within a second section such as discussion on the same row as a corresponding title such as for example Welcome letter in the first section Content that may serve as a discussion point. The project creator then generates within a third column on the same row as a corresponding title in the first column or section that serve as an approval point. The project creator then generates within a fourth column on the same row as a corresponding title in the first column or section to serve as a next step as shown by the example as hand off to the designated person Henry. There is no theoretical limit as to how many sections or columns can be generated that correspond to the title in the first section or column respectively.

Referring again to the invention relates to electronic documents in a virtual shared space referred to as a room such as Room and Room for purposes of planning organizing collecting managing and controlling a set of tasks by allowing the creation of a workflow process by developing a user selectable hierarchically structured procedural framework procedural framework and templates a subclass of procedural framework1 and procedural framework2 where each depicts steps in a management and task process having benchmarks or salient materials as part of the process .

As shown in A additionally the invention provides an environment for developing and creating procedural framework entries through importing content for external sources stored on media or accessed on line using programming techniques well known to those of ordinary skill in the programming arts into the content section such as by way of example and not limitation the Welcome letter or Brand Introduction . As previously indicated in the discussion section the user may generate discussion points such as by way of example and not limitation Difference between Seller A and Seller B . The discussion section may be optionally used to assign tasks or track progress on task execution. The approval section allows the user to approve actions progress or project completion storing the state of the procedural framework or an aspect of a project displaying and publishing the results.

Referring to the sections are further editable by one or more individuals to include the pertinent materials or to in some manner control the work flow such as creating ticklers or discussion items setting completion dates adding criteria for approval and the approval boxes linkable to a side panel that is accessible in each page that may be required regarding the tasks or materials contained in a section.

Turning to procedural framework entries are shown under Content and Agreement . In this example there are nine pages to this section the first page is on page number no. 2 referenced . The room also provides a page navigation tool which corresponds to the procedural framework . Clicking on the Agreement will open the first page of the Agreement section. Clicking on in the procedural framework or clicking on A of the page navigation tool will by way of example display the underlying agreement on page 2 in the room such as Distribution Agreement .

Turning to discussion items in the procedural framework such as by way of illustration and not limitation shows a designated list having 2. Document requirements 3. Shipping info and 4 Destination . Any such list such as this list will be also displayed in a window as a prompt list 2. Document requirements 3. Shipping info and 4 Destination in each section corresponding to the sections in the procedural framework . If a discussion item is checked as shown by example Destination in prompt list in the working pages of procedural framework then it will be also checked in the prompt list and vice versa.

When a handoff is activated through window then it will display a list of users that had been previously inputted into the handoff column . And when a user is selected then all the pages with its content and discussion in the sections with the user listed will be copied and placed in a new room. Similarly the user can highlight sections as for example three sections as highlighted in gray and indicated as rows and shown in by clicking a mouse on the hyperlink entitled Copy Section and the process copies the three sections in new rooms or in the same room. The user can also hand off the three sections to another user of the system. In the procedural framework the user hands off in this case to Production listed in row illustrated under handoff by clicking on button . When the user desires to handoff to another user it collects the handoff and in this exemplary case clicks on the appropriate Production of interest. The system responds with a handoff to whom the user choses by clicking window to bring down a list of candidates for potential hand offs as in this example Henry.com Bob and or Sara. Note that the process automatically makes a copy of only the sections that the user requests and hands it off to the individual or address chosen in window . When the user clicks submit at the hyperlink Submit the process creates a new room in that named person s account to whom the user handed off the sections. Even though a room may have many sections the three sections as in this example are handed off to the individual chosen as for example Henry.com. In this manner a user can complete one or more sections and hand it off even though the greater project itself has not been fully completed. It permits a section by section handoff to various individuals or departments.

The user can retrieve documents within a section. Under Approved there are three states or statuses listed. In section A row there are two awaiting henry approved by henry and in Section 1.2 row one status order needs approval . When the user goes to a section such as section 1.2 regardless which page the user is viewing the user will be reminded that approval is needed. In this example the user can assign the requirement for approval to another user in this instance Henry.

As shown in B C and one embodiment the present invention includes a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for creating a work flow collaborative file in a shared network space including the steps of 

accessing one or more user computers in the shared space in the network wherein the shared space is created by interaction of executable codes in a host and a user application and the shared space is described by a session attribute list 

loading a media application with a plurality of tools into one or more user computers using a stage manager tool from the media application to stage and correlate a plurality of media layers according to spatial temporal and relational coordinate data in the user application wherein the media layers data are described by at least one file descriptor inputting multi type content including one or more of text documents graphic images video images audio or data files into the shared space 

The invention also relates to a method wherein the media application is by way of example and not limitation a Flash application Java application or browser based scripts.

The invention also relates to a method of a user moving pages in the workflow between one or more rooms as depicted in and to from a website on the World Wide Web. The invention also relates to a method of using a template to permit content creators to decide where to place the content within a workflow using the template to dynamically swap in and out pages within the room as dictated by the use to which the workflow are put and using the template to permit the use of one or more of dynamic buttons and plug in features such that users of the workflow template may access tables of content that reside within one or more libraries having tables of content.

The invention further relates to methods for publishing the room storing the procedural framework in a library for publication embedding the procedural framework into in any web property embedding into the procedural framework as an autonomous software agent to trigger one of the creation duplication and or publication of copies of procedural framework and filtering viewing permission copying and publication.

The computer system depicted in B and C for creating a work flow collaborative procedural framework in a shared space within a network comprises a host server that communicates to a database and a file storage through a network a user machine with a user application that logs to the host server to join a shared space session with other user machines running user applications wherein the shared space session is generated by interaction of executable codes in the host and the user application and the shared space session is described by a session attribute list 

a first memory for storing application code with a plurality of tools into one or more user computers 

an input device for inputting multi type content including one or more of text documents graphic images video images audio or data files into the shared space a stage manager tool from the media application to stage and correlate a plurality of media layers according to spatial temporal and relational coordinate data in the user application wherein the media layers data are described by a file descriptor inputting multi type content including one or more of text documents graphic images video images or data files into the shared space and a display for displaying the content by computers in the shared space in one of a synchronous or asynchronous mode a second memory for storing a collaborative procedural framework templates to create pages with specific layouts b plug ins for each type content for searching additional resource information c converters for accessing through a browser the content of the procedural frameworks such as each such procedural framework including 

While the foregoing invention has been described with reference to the above embodiments additional modifications and changes can be made without departing from the spirit of the invention. Accordingly such modifications and changes are considered to be within the scope of the appended claims.

