---

title: Method and system for managing mobile telephone numbers and mobile telephone subscribers' data without geography-based restriction
abstract: A system manages subscribers' data of mobile telephones in a wireless network. Data servers are located according to geographic service areas, and each of the data servers may store subscribers' data of mobile telephones based on the respective geographic area. Location of subscribers' data is determined depending upon subscribers' ID, to which two or more Mobile telephone Numbers (MTNs) are assigned. Two or more MTNs may have different area codes for which subscribers' data are stored in at least two or more of the data servers. A terminal, for example, receives a user request calling for subscriber's data of a first MTN, retrieves a subscriber's ID corresponding to the first MTN from an Electronic Telephone Number Inventory (eTNI) database and sends a request containing the subscriber's ID. A router determines a first data server corresponding to the retrieved subscriber's ID and routes the request to the first data server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08693982&OS=08693982&RS=08693982
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08693982
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120215
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 257 011 filed Oct. 23 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 122 B1 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MANAGING MOBILE TELEPHONE NUMBERS AND MOBILE TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS DATA WITHOUT GEOGRAPHY BASED RESTRICTION the disclosure of which also is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

As mobile telephone service subscribers immensely increase demand for Mobile Telephone Numbers MTNs and amount of subscribers data to be handled such as billing data grow hugely corresponding to the increase of the mobile telephone service subscribers. The MTNs and the subscribers billing data are grouped managed and or stored by billing or management systems located according to geographical boundaries. For example a billing system specific to the Northeast area puts together and manages MTNs having the Northeast area code e.g. New York City 212 and billing data for the MTNs having the Northeast area code. Correspondingly other areas such as the Midwestern and the West coast have their own billing systems to manage MTNs having their own area codes and billing data for the MTNs having the area codes. Billing data for MTNs having New York City area code 212 are stored and managed by the Northeast billing system whereas billing data for MTNs having Los Angeles area code 213 are managed and stored by the West Coast billing system.

Such a geographical restriction on MTNs of the subscribers mobile telephones and management of billing data causes inconveniences to new or existing mobile telephone subscribers. When a new subscriber a resident at Los Angeles opens a mobile telephone at a Point Of Sale POS of in a different non residence location e.g. at store when visiting Washington D.C. the new subscriber has no choice but to have the area code of Washington D.C. 202 even if he wants to have the Los Angeles area code 213 as the area code of his mobile phone since MTNs of mobile telephone subscribers are managed depending upon the geographic area of POS where the mobile telephone account is opened. Such inflexibility in choosing MTNs is the case with existing mobile telephone subscribers even when the existing mobile telephone subscribers open another mobile telephone number under their existing mobile telephone accounts.

Moreover the geography based management of billing data cannot meet the mobile telephone subscriber s needs for receiving charges for plural mobile telephones that are opened as one bill under the name of the subscriber and for sharing minutes between the plural mobile telephones. For example a new or existing subscriber having his own MTN with the NYC area code 212 who has plural mobile telephones under his or her name wants to receive and pay one bill for charges for the plural mobile telephones having the LA area code 213 . However since the billing data for the mobile telephone having the LA area code 213 is stored and managed by the billing system located in the West Coast area and the billing data for the mobile telephone having NYC area code 212 is stored and managed by the billing system located in the Northeast area the billing data for both telephones cannot be put together and charged under one subscriber account. This collective billing demand is desperate in the case of companies of which employees are scattered all over a variety of geographic areas.

Hence a need exists for management of MTNs and billing data associated with the MTNs regardless of the geographic boundaries of the mobile telephone subscribers. Another need exist for allowing billing data of MTNs that are stored in a plurality of data servers depending upon geographical areas to be shared among the data servers.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The various technologies disclosed in the examples below provide a system for managing subscribers data in a wireless network. The system may comprise a plurality of data servers an Electronic Telephone Number Inventory eTNI database a terminal located at a Point Of Sale POS and a router. Each of the plurality of data servers may store subscribers data of mobile telephones based on geographic areas. The eTNI database stores the subscribers IDs and locations of subscribers data corresponding to the subscribers IDs. The subscriber s ID is an identification of a subscriber under which billing data of one or more MTNs are grouped and managed together. The location of the subscribers data stored among the plurality of data servers is determined depending upon the subscribers IDs. The terminal receives a request of subscriber s data of a first Mobile Telephone Number MTN and retrieves a subscriber s ID corresponding to the first MTN from the eTNI. The router determines a first data server corresponding to the retrieved subscriber s ID and routes the request to the first data server.

Often two or more MTNs are assigned to the subscriber s ID and sometimes the two or more MTNs have different area codes for which subscribers data are stored in at least two or more of the plurality of data servers. An area of the terminal making a request may be different from an area of the first data server and the area of the terminal and areas of the data servers are categorized according to MTN s area codes.

Management of Mobile Telephone Numbers MTNs and billing data for each MTN without restriction on geographic boundaries are implemented with a billing data management system which allows distantly located billing data systems to communicate and share billing data. Referring to the billing management system includes a POS terminal which is a computerized device installed at a front end POS to deal with transactions such as opening a new subscriber s account or additional mobile telephones of existing subscribers and handling requests from subscribers regarding billing. The POS terminal has a front end application software to perform various transactions and communications with other elements in the billing management system.

At least logically the POS terminal is directly connected to a centralized global router without involvement of any local billing data server hard wired to the POS terminal . The centralized global router is a device capable of computerized functions and has an Application Programming Interface API that allows the Point Of Sale POS terminal to access a plurality of geographically distributed billing data servers that store billing data of subscribers located or homed in the same area as serviced by respective billing data servers 

An Electronic Telephone Number Inventory eTNI database is a database that stores MTNs regardless of their area codes. The eTNI database is integrated into a wireless communication system and serves as the central repository and inventory system for the wireless communication service provider s telephone number resources. The POS terminal communicates with the eTNI database via the wireless communication system and refers to the eTNI database for finding a subscriber s ID corresponding to a MTN of a mobile telephone. Two or more MTNs are grouped under each subscriber s ID.

The geographically distributed billing data servers are located depending on geographical areas. For example the billing data server is located at the East area and stores billing data of MTNs having area codes of the East area and the billing data server is located at the West Coast area and stores billing data of MTNs having the West Coast area codes. The billing data includes information specific to subscribers such as subscribers IDs names addresses price plans and rating schemes.

For billing data of several MTNs to be consolidated on one subscriber s account processes of activating new mobile telephones are required. Referring to an exemplary process of activation of a new mobile telephone which is not consolidated on a pre existing subscriber s account is described. The POS terminal receives a request of activating a new mobile telephone from a new subscriber and sends a request for a new MTN to the ETNI . S In response to the request from the POS terminal the eTNI database sends a new MTN a new subscriber s ID corresponding to the new MTN and the information such as address identifying a default billing data server in which billing data of the new MTN will be stored. S Since the new MTN is not opened under pre existing subscriber s account a corresponding subscriber s ID is also created as well. The new MTN may have an area code of the area where the POS is located or an area code different from the POS located area code. The default billing data server may be a billing data server to store billing data of MTNs having the POS located area code for example East billing data server or another billing data server to store billing data of MTNs having other area codes.

After receiving the new MTN for the new mobile phone the new subscriber s ID and the address of the default billing data server for the new MTN the POS terminal sends an activation request of the new MTN to which the default billing data server e.g. the East billing data server is designated to the global router . S The global router forwards the activation request to the default billing data server the East billing data server in the example. S The East billing data server sends a confirmation that the activation of the new MTN has been processed to the eTNI database . S 

Following the confirmation the East billing data server sends a request to Mobile Terminating Access Service MTAS requesting a wireless network to provide mobile service to the mobile telephone having the newly activated MTN. S The MTAS receives the provisioning request from the East billing data server translates the provisioning request as appropriate for the wireless network and sends the translated provisioning request to the wireless network . S The wireless network is connected to a plurality of Base Stations BSs covering a plurality of Mobile Telephones MTs . As an alternative way to send the provisioning request to the MTAS the mobile phone having the new MTN may send the provisioning request over the air to the MTAS after the POS terminal receives the confirmation from the billing data server

Therefore the new mobile telephone may have the new MTN having an area code that the new subscriber wants and is different from the area of the POS terminal . Although the new MTN has an area code different from the area of the POS terminal and the billing data are stored in the billing data server corresponding to the area of the POS terminal management of billing data according to the subscriber s ID rather than the MTN allows the billing data for the new mobile telephone to be stored at a billing data server without restriction by the POS area where the new mobile telephone is opened.

Referring to a process of activating a new MTN under an existing subscriber s account is described. A POS terminal located for example in Washington D.C. receives a request for activating a new mobile telephone under an account of a pre existing subscriber as well as a subscriber s ID of the pre existing subscriber. Since the new MTN is opened under a pre existing subscriber s account the POS terminal obtains the subscriber s ID of the pre existing subscriber when the request for activating a new mobile telephone is received. The POS terminal sends a request for subscriber information of the pre existing subscriber as well as the subscriber s ID to the global router . S The global router sends the request for subscriber information including billing data to a billing data server e.g. West billing data server based on the subscriber s ID in which the pre existing subscriber s information including billing data is stored. S In response to the request for subscriber information the West billing data server sends the global router the subscriber s information of the pre existing subscriber. S The global router forwards the subscriber information of the pre existing subscriber to the POS terminal . S Following receipt of the subscriber information the POS terminal sends a request for a new MTN for assignment to the new mobile telephone opened under the pre existing subscriber s account to the eTNI database . S The eTNI database sends the POS terminal a new MTN having the Washington D.C. area code 202 as well as an assigned default billing data server e.g. East billing data server corresponding the Washington D.C. area code 202 . S 

The POS terminal forwards the new MTN having the Washington D.C. area code for the new mobile phone and the default billing data server East billing data server to the global router . S After receiving the default billing data server assigned to the new MTN the global router has as a billing data server for the new MTN two billing data servers for the new MTN the billing data server of the pre existing subscriber the West billing data server and the default billing data server assigned to the new MTN based on the area code of the new MTN the East billing data server . The billing data server of the pre existing subscriber the West billing data server takes precedence over the default billing data server assigned based on the area code of the new MTN as a billing data server for the new mobile phone having the new MTN. The global router sends the activation request of the new MTN to the billing data server of the pre existing subscriber the West billing data server in our example. S Since the billing data server of the pre existing subscriber the West billing data server is used for storing and managing billing data for the new mobile phone having the Washington D.C. area code 202 the new mobile phone may have a different area code from that of the pre existing subscriber s MTN and the billing data of the new mobile telephone can be managed together with the billing data of the pre existing subscriber under the pre existing subscriber s account.

The West billing data server activates the new mobile phone with the new MTN and sends the eTNI database a confirmation that the new mobile phone has been activated and the billing data server for the new mobile phone is the billing data server of the pre existing subscriber the West billing data server . S The West billing data server then sends the MTAS a provisioning request requesting a wireless network to provide mobile service to the mobile telephone having the activated MTN. S The MTAS receives the provisioning request from the West billing data server translates the provisioning request appropriate for the wireless network and sends the translated provisioning request to the wireless network . S As an alternative way to send the provisioning request to the MTAS the mobile phone with the subscriber s ID may send the provisioning request over the air to the MTAS after the POS terminal receives the confirmation from the billing data server

Following the above addressed processes all billing data for the new mobile telephone is pooled together with the billing data of the pre existing subscriber and is managed under the pre existing subscriber s account.

Exemplary procedures of the global router s routing transactions which routes transactions requested by the POS terminal to an appropriate billing data server are explained below. The transactions include a request for billing data which is requested by a subscriber at the POS and processed via the POS terminal at the POS. illustrates routing process of the global router in case that the global router routes transactions for which the POS terminal does not specify a billing data server. Referring to the global router is a collection of functionalities implemented by application modules which perform specific functionalities i.e. IP based Global Site Selector GSS Content Service Switches CSSs and Distributed Data Service DDS clusters . The GSS ensures Web based applications to be always available by detecting site outages or site congestion and rerouting content requests and offloads Domain Name System DNS servers by taking over the domain resolution process. The CSSs balance and direct all session traffic on a distributed website. The CSSs are composed of CSSs corresponding to geography based billing data servers . The DDS clusters are links between the Front end POS terminal and the back end billing and data management systems.

Still referring to a subscriber requests a transaction at a POS terminal and the POS terminal sends a transaction request to the GSS S . The request includes location of the POS terminal and the request does not specify a billing data server to which the request is routed. The GSS forwards the transaction request to a CSS corresponding to the location of the POS terminal . S The CSS routes the transaction request to a corresponding DDS cluster . S The DDS cluster sends the eTNI database the transaction request to find an appropriate billing data server for the subscriber and the eTNI database returns a subscriber s ID to the DDS cluster . S After receiving the subscriber s ID an appropriate billing data server corresponding to the subscriber s ID is determined based on the subscriber s ID. When the appropriate billing data server identified from the eTNI is the billing data server determined by the location of the POS terminal the transaction request is sent to the billing data server determined by the location of the POS terminal . S 

When the appropriate billing data server identified from the eTNI is not the billing data server determined by the location of the POS terminal the transaction request is redirected back to the POS terminal through the DDS cluster the CSS and the GSS . S The POS terminal reroutes the transaction request to the appropriate billing data server through the GSS and the CSS and the DDS Cluster that correspond to the appropriate billing data server . S 

When two or more pre existing subscribers want to group their accounts share their minutes and receive their billings under one account the pre existing subscribers accounts need to be grouped together under one of the pre existing subscribers accounts having the one subscriber ID. As a way to consolidate two or more pre existing subscribers accounts under one subscriber s account an exemplary process to reassign billing data of two or more pre existing subscribers on a billing data server will be described hereinafter.

After the request to reassign the billing data is received by the East billing data server a validation between the East billing data server the source data server and the West billing data server the target data server is performed. During the validation subscribers information corresponding to the source MTNa and the target MTNb is exchanged between the East billing data server the source billing data server and the West billing data server the target billing data server . S The East billing data server the source billing data server creates order to reassign billing data after the subscribers information is exchanged. S The East billing data server the source billing data server sends the POS terminal an acknowledgement that the validation is finished. S The acknowledgement may be an acceptance of the reassignment order or a notice of failed validation. In the interim the East billing data server the source billing data server records billing data of the source MTNa until an actual movement of the billing data of the source MTNa is successfully completed. S 

The East billing data server sends a notice of activation of reassign to the West billing data server . S The West billing data server the target billing data server groups together and records the billing data of the source MTNa and the target MTNb under one subscriber s account and sends a notice of record to the East billing data server . S After the consolidation of the billing data of the MTNa and the MTNb under one subscriber s account in the West billing data server the consolidation of billing data is updated to the MTAS . S 

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to mobile number and billing data transactions and associated message routing are implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network operating as a global router a billing data server and or as an eTNI database server as shown in . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server and or terminal programming so as to implement the functions discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. tables for the routing and or user s messages. The software code is executable by the general purpose computer that functions as the server. In operation the code is stored within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Execution of such code by a processor of the computer platform enables the platform to implement the methodology for managing subscribers data without geographic restriction in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

Hence aspects of the methods of managing mobile telephone subscriber s data outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the network operator into the computer platform of the global router or the POS terminal . Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the routing process by the global router etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present concepts.

The description above has used a large number of acronyms to refer to various services messages and system components. Although generally known use of several of these acronyms is not strictly standardized in the art. For the convenience of the reader the following list correlates terms to acronyms as used in the detailed description above.

