---

title: Systems and methods for dynamic event production and management
abstract: Apparatus and methods for dynamically producing and managing events are disclosed. In various embodiments, an event sequence generator is used to generate a production schedule or script that includes content elements and event milestones. Methods of generating a production schedule and a promotion schedule are also disclosed. The production schedule and reports based on the event can be produced and accessed remotely.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489457&OS=08489457&RS=08489457
owner: Total Sports Entertainment
number: 08489457
owner_city: La Crosse
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120605
---
This application is a Continuation application of U.S. Ser. No. 12 204 455 filed 4 Sep. 2008 which claims benefit of Ser. No. 60 0970 152 filed 5 Sep. 2007 in the United States and which applications are incorporated herein by reference. A claim of priority to all to the extent appropriate is made.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The information disclosed herein relates generally to systems and methods for event production and management.

The entertainment market is large diverse and growing. Consequently related promotional activities which can be an important source of revenue may grow commensurately.

Sporting events are evolving into broader entertainment events with the trend toward including an increasing mix of non sports activities. The systems and methods used to manage such sporting events have in general not kept pace with event complexity. Therefore implementation of more effective event management and production systems and methods is desirable for coordinating such entertainment events.

The inventors have realized that the quasi regimented flow of an entertainment event such as a sporting contest can be used to create an ordered approach to event management and production. This includes the tracking of all event content the ordering of all content in conjunction with established event milestones the generation of documentation for use by all members of the event staff e.g. production and camera staff and generation of reports even dynamic reports for ownership management and sponsors. Additionally the inventors have realized that there is a need for real time management manipulation and viewing of an event plan. In one example the event plan can be viewed in real time on the internet or on an intranet. The present methods and systems can generate event plan information electronically that can be manipulated dynamically during an event in real time via internet or an intranet.

Unless the event sponsor is present at the event the sponsor may have no way of determining whether an advertisement was actually presented. Therefore various embodiments described herein relate to the generation of reports made accessible to the sponsor detailing delivery of advertisements. The report can include information the sponsor can use to gauge the effectiveness of an advertisement. Such reports could be accessed electronically anywhere via electronic communications by the sponsor.

Although a baseball game example is emphasised for ease in understanding the invention various embodiments also pertain to football basketball soccer hockey lacrosse auto motorcycle and bicycle racing horse and dog racing rugby cricket tennis rodeos equestrian events and the like. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art after reading this disclosure the embodiments described herein also relate generally to non sporting events such as theatre television and film productions dog shows air shows parades state fairs seminars conventions and NPO events and the like. Further various embodiments apply to emergency management services which may need to coordinate event activities in real time with available local resources such as police fire ambulance transportation services and to direct the flow of people and vehicle traffic. The complexity of managing such events is illustrated by way of example below.

In view of the above coordination and control of all game activities can be desirable to prevent chaos optimize game flow and maximize the various forms of revenue available to the owner and operator of the event. Thus there is a need to effectively manage and produce entertainment events to enhance the entertainment experience of the spectator while maximizing income to the owner and operator.

Milestones can be specified in association with an exact time or in time relation to another milestone. An event milestone can also change which can cause other milestones to shift in time. Therefore apparatus can also be configured to reschedule presentation of a content element. Apparatus can also provide these changes electronically over electronic communications such as wireless means internet or intranet. These milestones can be organized into or evolve into a script that directs the personnel during the event.

Process module can be configured to generate production schedule a promotion schedule and other reports based on content elements and event milestones . Process module can process substitutions additions and subtractions of content elements and event milestone and generate a modified or updated production schedule promotion schedule and other reports . In some embodiments process module is configured to merge one or more content elements with one or more event milestones to produce a script to be followed at the event. These schedules and reports can be manipulated for example changing fonts colors backgrounds etc. so that the certain data and elements can be more easily recognized. Graphical interfaces can be provided that allow a user to jump to specific location in a schedule e.g. the end of the third inning 60 minutes before game time at end game etc.

Other reports can include information related to the completion of event related activities. A sponsor can be provided a copy of such reports to verify that a specified advertisement was provided to a specified audience and at a specified location. Examples of other reports that can be generated include global reports content element reports sponsor reports game reports promotional schedule reports ownership reports. In some embodiments the other reports can customizable and include information generated in near real time. These reports can further be accessed electronically via a remote access. A report of all pending production schedules follows.

Content elements and event milestones can be provided in real time or extracted from a database or other such memory store. Accordingly production schedule promotion schedule and other reports can be generated in real time to accommodate changes to content elements and event milestones . Such changes can include for example unexpected events that occur during game play.

A sponsor can be permitted access to a copy of production schedule and promotion schedule to verify that a specified advertisement will be provided at a particular location. A sponsor can be limited to viewing only the portion of a production schedule and promotion schedule related to the sponsor s advertisement or permitted to view the entire production schedule and promotion schedule . Production schedule promotion schedule and other reports can also be made accessible to federal state and local government agencies and to security and safety personnel for use in coordinating associated activities.

Production schedule can be used to establish a delivery sequence for content elements in relation to event milestones as well as to ensure future content elements are properly staged positioned and provisioned. For example an event producer may need to pre stage a band scheduled to play during the seventh inning stretch of a baseball game. Among other things the pre stage time can include time for the band to assemble equipment warm up and move into position. The pre stage time can be entered as a single content element or as a plurality of content elements that is then associated with the relevant event milestone. Process modules can combine the pre stage content element with an event milestone to generate a production schedule that allocates the necessary time between adjacent milestones. The production schedule can therefore be used to effectively organize and manage a primary event.

The production schedule can further check to ensure that any game element added to the schedule does not take more time than is allotted to a specific time. As an example the time between innings of a baseball game is shorter than the seventh inning stretch. As a result more or longer game elements can be scheduled at the seventh inning stretch than between innings.

In various embodiments an event producer is able to generate a production schedule promotion schedule and other reports from a remote location through a communications network. In various embodiments production schedule promotion schedule and other reports can be generated and delivered using a wireless network device. The production schedule can provide real time data on whether a game element is complete and highlight what the next game element is. Further the schedule can highlight the next game element that involves the specific person assigned to a particular wireless device. The schedules and can include live links to a sponsor s website or a buyer s guide.

User interface module can be coupled to interface screen to display content elements event specific information and production schedule promotion schedule and reports . Data engine provides content elements to element data store and event specific information to event data store . In various embodiments element data store includes a sponsorship inventory of content elements. In various embodiments element data store and event data store include a global list of basic elements that can be used when establishing a new sponsor account or new event. Content elements and event specific information can be provided by a user or a computer. Content elements can include one or more text files audio files video files and image files . In various embodiments element data store and event data store are located on one data store. A wireless device such as a personal digital assistant PDA a Palm an IPhone and a Blackberry can be coupled to the process module to enable bi directionally communication with a remote user.

Process module includes a production engine that is configured to combine content elements and event specific information and to generate production schedule promotion schedule and reports . In various embodiments production schedule is production schedule promotion schedule is promotion schedule and reports are other reports . The promotion schedule can include information related to game day information. In some embodiments the promotion schedule and the production schedule are similar except that the promotion schedule includes game day related information. Production engine can receive instructions from user interface module to retrieve content elements and event specific information . Production engine can also be configured to match one or more content elements with at least one event specific information to provide one or more deliverables . The matching of content elements with event specific information can be based on an algorithm that determines whether a specified content element is compatible with a specified event milestone. Deliverables include a production schedule as described above an abridged production schedule a PA script and user executable code. User executable code is a software application that can run on a computing device to control the delivery of content elements to a device such as a speaker and a display . In various embodiments process module includes hardware configured to execute machine readable instructions. Process module can also be configured to generate one or more reports identifying the content elements that were presented at corresponding event milestones. Reports production schedule and promotion schedule can be made accessible to sponsors and federal state and local government security and safety personnel as describe above.

In some embodiments one or more reports includes data that can be used to track sales activity at an event. Here process module can be coupled to a secure data store containing a time record of sales activity at the event for example cash register sales and credit card sales tallied during the event in relation to a timestamp. The timestamp and the report can enable a sponsor to correlate sales activity with the presentation of an advertisement.

The process module can include a sponsor inventory module to enable a sponsor or another to monitor available content elements. The process module can also include a module containing one or more production task lists which can be configured to schedule tasks for staff and run reports to determine which tasks were completed and which are incomplete.

Template A contains a plurality of selectable data fields related to event milestones. Template A enables the entering and editing of content elements such as content elements and as described above and illustrated in . Template A includes pull down menus A A and text entry boxes A A. Pull down menu A contains a listing of primary events e.g. baseball football basketball etc. and may include a listing of sub menus such as professional semi professional college high school and the like. The pull down menus of the present invention can be used to initiate loading of another template to update a current template and to redirect entry of content elements and event milestone event to other templates. In various embodiments one or more pull down menu use a script such as Javascript or an application such as Adobe Flash that can support scripting. In various embodiments text entry boxes A and A provide a means for entering an upload link for an audio file.

Text entry boxes A can be used to provide an event announcer the precise language to be used at a selected event milestone. In various embodiments text entered in box A is transmitted to an image recognition device and converted to an audio file to be played automatically at the selected event milestone. Template A includes boxes A A that can be used to allocate or direct the playing of video files such as advertisements to a display. In various embodiments boxes A A are configured to accept an upload link for video and image files that are to be displayed at a specified event milestone.

Report C includes a listing of content elements displayed in association with event milestones for a baseball game. The content elements which are not listed in the order provided include video and audio content related to sponsored advertisement and public announcements. Report C can be also display content elements in association with event milestones. In various embodiments report C is presented in electronic format enabling content elements to be displayed alphabetical by length sponsorship and the like. In various embodiments the content elements and event milestones are displayed and arranged in association with colored fonts or highlighting to provide for a quick visual identification. For example alcohol advertisements can be all one color food all another color and financials all a third color. All of the milestone events and content elements are loaded into the present system and a report C is generated. Report C shows the ancillary event for each of the associated milestones. Report C further shows the latest revision of the ancillary event. In one example see the season ticket holder of the game ancillary event is to be held at the game segment at the end of the first inning before the start of the second inning. This ancillary event was set at 8 33 pm on 19 Aug. 2007 in this example. At a video clip is played. At a public address is made on behalf of a sponsor TD mortgage. Other ancillary events or promotions are listed on .

Report D includes a listing of sponsored content elements displayed in association with event milestones for a baseball game. In this example the report also includes the text that was presented enabling the sponsor to verify accuracy. In various embodiments report D includes sales activities such as product volumes and sales dollars generated in relation to the time the advertisement was presented. Although not shown in D the report can include information indicating the location of the speaker and the display where the associated content element was presented at the event. The sponsor report provides a report for a specific sponsor here by way of example Advance Auto Parts is the sponsor. Report D shows the records of the ancillary events that are sponsored by a particular sponsor. The records includes scripts and or the audio visual components that are associated or linked to a particular event milestone such as a game segment.

Event milestones can be predetermined or specified in near real time. Predetermined milestones can be assembled or structured in the form of a template maintained in a database. The template can be partitioned by subject matter containing a plurality of placeholders to be completed by the user. Event milestones specified in real time can be entered into a text document or a spreadsheet. In various embodiments the spreadsheet contains macros that are used to calculate and propagate information. The template can also be formatted according to the requirements of an event. The template can also include selectable default conditions such as a sequence of game innings. In various embodiments event milestones are presented as a series of pull down menus on the template. In various embodiments the event producer can structure the template without knowledge of content elements.

In various embodiments the template contains information retrieved from another database such an electronic database made accessible by a third party for example game dates times and locations published by the owner operator of the event. Here pull technology such as a web crawler or web robot can be used to automatically search for relevant data. In various embodiments push technology is used to enable a third party the ability to provide template related information that can be stored in a database for later use.

At block one or more content elements such as elements and are provided by a user or a computer and input to the process module. The content elements can be entered into a template or other such user interface. In various embodiments content elements are entered through a web interface or retrieved from a data store. Content elements for a sponsor can be added to a data store by a sales person for retrieval by a process module. A user such as an event producer can be provided a listing of the sponsored content in the data store to be included in the primary event. In various embodiments sponsored content entered by a sales person is automatically inserted into the relevant event milestones according to an algorithm. The algorithm can recognize placeholders and allotted times and merge content that is a best fit. Criteria determining a best fit can be based on a sponsor s requirements and demands for example advertisements to be played in between specified game innings.

At block a production schedule is generated by the process module and output to a device for viewing. An algorithm can be used to limit entry of content element to an allotted time slot and to provide an alert of an incompatibility with an event milestone. An incompatibility can occur where there is a conflict among content elements such scheduling as multiple content elements for the same event milestone conflict among sponsor requirements and demands and where the length of a content element exceeds the available time period of an event milestone.

At block the user is permitted to modify the production schedule. Modification to a production schedule can be a change in event milestone a content element or both. The user is permitted to add subtract or alter exiting event milestones and content elements in near real time. A new or updated production schedule can be generated based on the modification. The resulting production schedule may advance or delay the presentation of content elements to account for the modification.

The production schedule can also be used to generate an abridged production schedule and PA scripts. The production schedule can be generated as executable code delivered to a user through any suitable means such as through a web enabled browser. In various embodiments the production schedule is a printable electronic file such as a text file a spreadsheet application and a formatted web page.

At block if modification to the production schedule is not desired a production report can be generated. The report can be specific to the sponsor to enable the sponsor to verify that content was presented at appropriate time. The report can also include a record of sales activity before during and after a sponsor s content was presented. Such sales activity can be in text graphical and spreadsheet format. The report can be made accessible to a sponsor in tangible form and electronically over a network in near real time. The report therefore may be useful to a sponsor for gauging the effectiveness of the content presented.

In various embodiments method is performed on an apparatus such as apparatus and as described above and illustrated in .

Processor can be configured to generate a production schedule such as schedule a promotion schedule such as schedule and other reports such as reports . Processor can also be configured to provide content such as deliverables . In various embodiments processor includes a process module such as module and module as described above and illustrated in . In various embodiments a process module such as module and module is located in a device such as a computer or a processor coupled to computer at network interface device . In various embodiments content elements and event milestones are generated by another computer and provided to computer as a software application. In various embodiments a software application containing one or more of content elements event milestones production schedule promotions schedule and other reports are provided to computer over network .

Storage device can be any suitable device capable of storing data including devices using magnetic media optical media and semiconductor memory. Storage device can include data items such as content elements and and event milestones and information . Storage device is not limited to computer but can be a storage device coupled to network . In some embodiments storage device includes a copy of the production schedule the promotion schedule and other reports .

Output device can be any device capable of providing viewable content. For example output device may be a liquid crystal display a plasma based flat panel display projection display and a cathode ray tube device. Although one output device is shown a plurality of output devices can be used. In various embodiments output device is a device such as user interface screen .

Input device can be used to enter data for further processing and storage. Input device may be a keyboard a pointing device a trackball a touchpad a touch screen a keypad a gamepad a microphone a voice recognition device and the like. Although one input device is shown any number and type of input devices can be used. In various embodiments the input device is a device used for entering content elements and and event milestones and information .

Network interface device can be configured to provide connectivity between computer and network using any suitable communications protocol. Examples of communications protocols include wireless protocols such as the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11a b g h i j and IEEE 802.16e 2005 Ethernet IEEE 802.3x xx and the Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol TCP IP . Network can be the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a cellular network based on Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and Code Division Multiple Access CDMA General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . Although one network is shown one or more networks of the same or different types may be coupled to computer .

Network can be coupled to a file server storing content elements and event milestones. Server can include one or more modules such as interface module process module and process module to provide computer with production schedule promotion schedule and other reports . In various embodiments network includes file server . In various embodiments server is a server mirrored storing content elements and event milestones as backup. In various embodiments network is coupled to a server farm containing a plurality of servers such as server to provide redundancy. Each server in the server farm can be coupled to a different network to provide a high level of network redundancy as well as data redundancy. Computer can be configured to ping each server and maintain a directory of operational networks and servers to be accessed in the event of a server or network failure. In various embodiments computer maintains a hierarchy of servers and networks that can be automatically placed in primary communication with computer .

As described herein embodiments of the present invention allow audio and visual elements to be loaded and part of the schedules being created. The frame includes an A V components area . A production task list link is provided that when selected by the user a task list for a given game element is provided. In the example of fireworks being the A V component the task list may include the safety checklist and a direction to load the music that will accompany the fireworks. An audio music field is provided that allows a name of a music file to be input. The task of uploading music is assigned to a person in field . This person is then responsible for uploading the music prior to the need for the music during the event. The user must then indicate the status of the music upload in field . The status field provides data in the present methods and systems that can be run to provide an incomplete task report before the event takes place. Thus the event coordinator can have a report that focuses the efforts to complete incomplete tasks and not check all tasks and elements to find those that are not complete. A memo field can be provided with memos. As shown the memo field is reduced in size as a memo is not always required. A further audio component of a game element is an audio sound effect which can be input at field . The A V components include visual components as well and display field provides an input. A sponsor link is provided that opens a sponsor list that is used to link the display to a given sponsor. Like the audit music field video field display field includes assigned to a person field a complete incomplete field and a memo field.

Events can further require people such as announcers mascots special guests celebrities camera crews in crowd announcer organ player etc. to be part of a given game element. A talent field identifies who needs to be involved in this game element. A coordinator field is provided that identifies who is responsible for having the talent in the correct location and ready to perform when the game element occurs.

The game elements can be stored and used over again. The database of the game elements can be searched and sorted by any of the data fields. For example if a certain is available then the game elements could be searched for game elements that meet that time requirement and fill the missing game element. This may allow the event organizer to fill all possible promotional opportunities and maximize revenue by selling more advertising. A list of possible saved game elements follows.

The use of game elements and their associated fields provides a single location to change the data that will then propagate through all schedules and reports that use that game elements. For example if a talent listed in field changes for a game then the talent name changes in each subsequent schedule and report. As another example changes in a script are entered in field then these changes occur in subsequently run schedules and reports.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art various embodiments also include one or more elements provided in Appendices A S.

In an embodiment an event sequence generator includes a milestone generator to provide a listing of event milestones. The event sequence generator also includes an interface module for entering content elements for association with the event milestones. The event sequence generator also includes a process module configured to generate a production schedule based on the content elements and the event milestones.

In an embodiment a method includes generating event milestones and generating content elements for association with the event milestones. The method also includes generating a production schedule adapted to accept modifications to the content elements and event milestones. The method also includes generating a report associated with the production schedule.

In an embodiment a system includes a computer having a milestone module for receiving event milestones an interface module for receiving content elements for association with the event milestones and a process module to generate a production schedule that includes the content elements and event milestones. The computer is coupled to a network.

In an embodiment a machine readable medium having machine executable instructions that when performed cause one or more process modules to store event milestones and to receive content elements for association with the event milestones. The instruction also cause the process modules to generate a production schedule including the content elements and the event milestones and to generate a report based on the production schedule.

The presently described methods systems and devices enable the efficient production of modern event. The present disclosure enables introduction of changes or additions to the schedule script from any computer with an internet connection and appropriate access to the software and database. A user will be able to enter and manage individual events for all aspects of a sporting event s script. The user will build an event specific production schedule that allows real time changes throughout the event. From this schedule you can 1. view an always up to date master production schedule in an internet browser window 2. print an abridged production schedule s for your field floor staff to carry 3. print a PA script that can be updated to adapt to current changes in the live event with a few mouse clicks 4. download and save all of the above schedules scripts for use in commonly used formats such as Word or Excel and 5. operate a dashboard which will a eliminate the need for paper PA Scripts b allow real time changes to the PA schedule script c allow spontaneous additions to the event script or d provide sponsor game reports by tagging each event with a time date stamp when it is completed.

It will be recognized that methods described herein could be stored on computer readable media such as tangible electronic optical or magnetic media. Such media could include machine executable instructions that when performed cause one or more process modules to store event milestones receive content elements for association with the event milestones generate a production schedule including the content elements and the event milestones and generate a report based on the production schedule. The machine readable medium could further comprises a module to generate a promotion schedule. The machine readable medium could further comprise instructions to generate from a customizable template. The machine readable medium could further comprise instructions to generate at least one of a sponsor report game report promotion schedule report.

The above Detailed Description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly the various embodiments described herein may be implemented with software firmware or hardware. The various embodiments are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments. For example the above described embodiments and or aspects thereof embodiments may be combined utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The methods described herein do not have to be executed in the order described or in any particular order unless it is otherwise specified that a particular order is required. Moreover unless otherwise specified various activities described with respect to the methods identified herein can be executed in repetitive simultaneous serial or parallel fashion.

The term module refers to software hardware and firmware components may be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. The term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring the abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment

