---

title: Systems and methods for enabling natural language processing
abstract: Systems and methods for searching databases by sound data input are provided herein. A service provider may have a need to make their database(s) searchable through search technology. However, the service provider may not have the resources to implement such search technology. The search technology may allow for search queries using sound data input. The technology described herein provides a solution addressing the service provider's need, by giving a search technology that furnishes search results in a fast, accurate manner. In further embodiments, systems and methods to monetize those search results are also described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694537&OS=08694537&RS=08694537
owner: SoundHound, Inc.
number: 08694537
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
This nonprovisional patent application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 861 775 filed on Aug. 23 2010 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SEARCHING DATABASES BY SOUND INPUT which claims the priority benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 368 999 filed on Jul. 29 2010 titled System and method for enabling search functionality of databases belonging to multiple service providers on a computer network which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to searching databases. The invention relates more particularly to systems and methods for searching databases of service providers on a network and also to systems and methods that process natural language queries.

Service providers such as owners of mobile services and or applications may offer services products and or content to end users through a computer network. A service provider may wish to allow end users to search one or more databases that are used in the services products and or content provided by the service provider. An example of a service provider may be an owner of a mobile business directory application who wishes to voice enable his or her business directory application. An enhanced search experience can significantly improve the user engagement and ultimately success of the service and or application particularly in mobile environments. However both the infrastructure and the technology for providing search functionality may not be owned licensed or be otherwise accessible to service providers. As an example if a service provider wishes to implement voice enabled search with their mobile service it would be difficult to do so because the conventional infrastructure for search technology may be complicated and expensive to establish.

In accordance to some embodiments of the present technology an exemplary method for searching one or more databases includes several steps. A database may be received from a service provider by a database upload via a network where the database has one or more records and the one or more records include at least one field. The one or more records of the database may be processed based on the at least one field. A search query may be received via the network where the search query includes search parameters of the at least one field of the one or more records of the processed database and may be provided by sound data input from an end user. One or more search results may be determined in the processed database based upon the search parameters of the search query and the one or more search results may be transmitted for display to the end user via the network. Using the exemplary method a service provider may be able to provide search functionality to users without the need for the service provider to build the requisite infrastructure or develop sound enabled search technology.

In various embodiments the technology allows for a server to allow an uploading of a service provider s databases s and using this technology the service provider s database s become searchable on the server using a unique search technology without the need for the service provider to build the infrastructure or the technology. According to exemplary embodiments of the technology the search technology allows for search queries to be provided by sound data input from a service provider or from an end user. The sound data input may comprise voice or spoken word music and any other type of sound input.

In various embodiments an exemplary method for providing the one or more search results may include receiving a search query by a database upload via a network where the search query includes one or more query chunks of at least one field of the one or more records of a processed database and the search query is provided by sound data input from an end user. The one or more search results may be determined in the processed database based upon the one or more query chunks of the search query. One or more fields of the one or more search results may be selectively transmitted for display to the end user via the network and one or more additional fields of the one or more search results may also be selectively transmitted for display in real time to the end user via the network.

Furthermore the search provider may wish to derive revenue from the database search functionalities described herein. Exemplary methods for providing advertising in the one or more search results are provided. A search query may be received for one or more application verticals via a network where the search query includes search parameters of the at least one field of the one or more records of a processed database. An advertisement database may be searched based upon a search history that includes historic search parameters and one or more advertisement results may be generated across the one or more application verticals based upon the historic search parameters. The one or more advertisement results may be transmitted via the network. In an exemplary embodiment the position of the search results may be influenced using a bidding process when advertising is delivered onto application verticals thereby generating additional revenue from the provided advertising. Service providers may have an additional incentive to utilize the described methods and systems for searching databases by receiving a portion of the revenues generated by advertising in accordance with various embodiments.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to methods for processing natural language queries. The methods may comprise a receiving two or more natural language libraries from service providers where each natural language library comprises i natural language queries for interacting with a client application and ii responses for the natural language queries b generating an aggregated natural language library from the received natural language libraries c receiving a natural language search query via the network the natural language search query at least comprising sound data input d comparing the sound data input to the aggregated natural language library to determine at least one natural language query that corresponds to the sound input data and e providing a response to the at least one natural language queries from the responses associated with the natural language query included in the aggregated natural language library.

According to other embodiments the present technology may be directed to a natural language query processor that comprises a a memory for storing executable instructions b a processor for executing instructions stored in memory to i receive natural language libraries from service providers where each natural language library comprises 1 natural language queries for interacting with a client application 2 responses for the natural language queries ii generate an aggregated natural language library from the received natural language libraries iii receive a natural language search query via the network from at least one client the natural language search query comprising sound data input iv compare the sound data input to the aggregated natural language library to determine at least one natural language query that corresponds to the sound input data and v provide a response to the at least one natural language query from the responses associated with the natural language queries included in the aggregated natural language library.

Various embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for searching one or more databases. In some exemplary embodiments the present technology may allow for databases of service providers to be searched by one or more end users within a network. Service providers offering services products and or content to end users through a computer network may store records accessible to the end users in one or more databases. Further a service provider may wish to allow end users to search the one or more databases. For example if the service provider provides end users with listings of restaurants and information associated with the restaurants e.g. reviews and end user comments it would be beneficial to give end users the ability to search for records pertaining to restaurants quickly and easily. However conventional search engines may be difficult and costly to implement. This is further compounded by the fact that oftentimes service providers do not own the infrastructure and or the technology to enable such search experience for their end users.

According to various embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are provided herein that are related to searching databases of service providers. In exemplary embodiments the technology presented herein easily makes a service provider s database of records searchable through a computer network without the need to develop the search technology. In further embodiments the technology furnishes relevant search results along with deep relevant content to the end users quickly. In yet further embodiments the technology allows for the monetization of the search results.

Further systems and methods for searching one or more databases using cloud computing are described herein. An exemplary system for searching a database may include a communications module configured to receive the database from a service provider by a database upload via a network the database having one or more records the one or more records including at least one field. The system may also include a processor for executing instructions stored in memory to process the one or more records of the database based on the at least one field. The processor may also execute instructions stored in memory to receive a search query via the network the search query including search parameters of the at least one field of the one or more records of the processed database the search query provided by sound data input by an end user determine one or more search results in the processed database based upon the search parameters of the search query and transmit for display the one or more search results to the end user via the network.

By using cloud computing to provide search capability to the one or more databases a service provider may take utilize the computing resources software and information provided by the cloud without having to invest the time and resources into providing search ability using conventional means. For instance according to various embodiments a service provider may wish to enable its users to search its database by speaking all or parts of a field in their database of records. In such an embodiment the service providers may take advantage of a speech recognition search engine without having to develop the necessary technology and infrastructure yet still maintain control over the manner in which the search results are presented to the users.

Furthermore a service provider may wish to enhance the presentation of search results to the end user to gain competitive advantage over competitors of the service provider. Systems and methods for providing search results are described that may enhance the speed of searching and enhance the search results with images and or rich content. An exemplary system for providing one or more search results may include a communications module configured to receive a search query via a network. The search query may include one or more query chunks of at least one field of the one or more records of a processed database. The search query may be provided by sound data input from an end user. The exemplary system may also include a processor for executing instructions stored in memory to determine the one or more search results in the processed database based upon the one or more query chunks of the search query selectively transmit for display in real time to the end user via the network one or more fields of the one or more search results and selectively transmit for display in real time to the end user via the network one or more additional fields of the one or more search results. By utilizing the cloud computing network a service provider may be able to provide search results along with additional content that may enhance the search experience for end users thereby providing enhanced functionality without any additional burden being placed upon the service provider.

Finally exemplary embodiments of a cloud computing system as described herein may be monetized for service providers and other parties by providing advertising with the search results. An exemplary system for providing advertising in one or more search results may include a network having at least one service provider and one or more end users. The system may also include a server coupled to the network that is configured to receive a database from the at least one service provider by a database upload via a network. The database may include one or more records the one or more records having at least one field. The server may also be configured to process the one or more records of the database based on the at least one field. The server may be further configured to receive a search query via the network. The search query may include search parameters of the at least one field of the one or more records of the processed database and may be provided by sound data input from an end user. One or more search results may be determined in the processed database based upon the search parameters of the search query.

Additionally the server may be configured to search an advertisement database based upon the search query or the one or more determined search results and generate one or more advertisement results across the one or more application verticals based upon the search of the advertisement database. The one or more search results may be transmitted for display to the end user via the network and the one or more advertisement results may also be transmitted for display via the network where the one or more advertisement results are associated with the one or more search results.

Service providers and or advertisers may thereby provide advertising across one or more service application verticals by utilizing the resources of the cloud network instead of being required to employ a separate advertising system. In an exemplary embodiment the position of the search results may be influenced using a bidding process when advertising is delivered onto application verticals thereby generating additional revenue from the provided advertising. Service providers may have an additional incentive to utilize the described methods and systems for searching databases by receiving a portion of the revenues generated by advertising in accordance with various embodiments. To further customize the advertising search query history and information relating to the end user may also be utilized to potentially increase the effectiveness of advertising.

It will be noted that as used herein the term cloud computing encompasses network based computing where computing resources software and information are provided over the network and are accessible by service providers and or user devices. User devices may include but are not limited to desktops PCs laptops notebooks game consoles e.g. an X box music players tablets IPods Smartphones automobile computer systems and Internet enabled TVs. A Smartphone may be generally defined as a phone with computing capability. A Smartphone may provide Internet access to an end user.

As with all of the figures provided herein one skilled in the art will recognize that any number of elements can be present in the exemplary system and that the exemplary methods described herein can be executed by one or more of elements. Any number of any of elements can be present in the exemplary system and the exemplary system is configured to serve these elements. For example the search server may communicate search results via the network to the one or more clients despite the fact that only three clients are shown in . For all figures mentioned herein like numbered elements refer to like elements throughout.

The one or more clients may be a user device used by the end user to access a network . In various embodiments the client may be a user device used to access the service provider and or one or more of the databases via the network . The client may include network browser applications not shown configured to render content pages such as web pages from the Internet. The client may communicate with the service provider over the network .

The one or more service providers may provide a service to at least one client over a network. Examples of such services may include providing video content and or providing information regarding entertainment restaurants and the like. The service may be a web service that allows end users to access the service and or software over the Internet e.g. by using a user interface loaded in a web browser .

A given service provider may have an account on the search server . The account may include account information related to the service provider s account. The included account information may include authentication information billing information and or contact information as described below. An account may be a prerequisite before a service provider may gain access to the search server and provide the one or more databases to the search server . The one or more databases may be stored on the search server . Furthermore the one or more databases may be received onto the search server using a database upload. The database upload may be performed for example over the network .

The network can be any type of network including but not limited to the Internet LAN WAN a telephone network and any other communication network that allows access to data as well as any combination of these. The network may be a public network e.g. the Internet or a private network and may take the form of a wired or wirelessly network.

The one or more service providers may receive a user input from the one or more clients . The user input may be entered using the user device for example and include a search query. The search query may be a request for information contained within the one or more databases and may include search parameters as described further below. The search query may furthermore include sound data input by the end user onto the client . The user input may be relayed to the search server via the network . As shown in the search server may accommodate user inputs from one or more service providers . Also as shown in a user input may be relayed to the search server through the service provider or may be transmitted to the network without being relayed by the service provider .

One or more search engines may be used to process the one or more databases as described below and provide search functionality for the databases . The search engine may also be used to generate search results from the databases . The search of the one or more databases may be performed by a single search engine or by multiple search engines where each search engine performs searches based upon a different type of search query. For example a text search may be performed by a first search engine while a spoken word search may be performed by a second search engine. The search results may include one or more records from the databases that match or are related to one or more search parameters of the search query.

Using the search engine the search server may transmit one or more search results from the databases in response to the user input . Using the network the search results may be transmitted to the service provider and the service provider may relay the search results back to the client . As shown in the search server may determine and transmit search results from one or more service providers . Furthermore a search result may be relayed to the client through the service provider or may be transmitted via the network without being relayed through the service provider . The system may thereby provide search functionality to the one or more databases . Among other benefits the system may advantageously provide advanced search ability such as searching using sound data by storing and processing the one or more databases outside of the infrastructure of the service providers.

The search query module may receive a search query from a search query originator. In various embodiments a search query originator may be an end user utilizing a user device or a server operated by the service provider. The search query originator may provide the search query for use by the search module . Furthermore the search query originator receives search results provided by the search server via the network after a search has been performed by search module .

The search query may include an end user s request for information of a database on the search server . The search query may be received in any suitable form. For example an end user may furnish the search query or a portion of the search using a microphone to capture sound data. Furthermore the end user may use a camera or similar recording device to include an image in the search query. The contents of the search query may include sound data text spoken words image other data or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the search query module may provide one or more user interfaces on the user device to input the search query e.g. a button on a display screen or a plurality of buttons on the display screen which may be used to specify a service provider .

After the search query module receives the search query the search query may be provided to the query transmission module which may transmit the search query to the communications module via the network . The network may be any suitable computer network or plurality of networks permitting communication between a service provider and or an end user and the search server . The network may include any type and number of databases servers end users computing devices and policy engines.

In some exemplary embodiments the query transmission module may perform a step of dividing the search query into one or more query chunks. A query chunk may be a predetermined fragment or a portion of the search query. A query chunk may be of any size. For example if the search query includes spoken words the query chunks may include words or phrases from the words spoken by the end user. Likewise if the search query includes text and sound data then the text may be divided into a separate chunk from the sound data. Because the search query may include large amounts of data dividing the search query into chunks may advantageously increase the speed at which the search request is received and processed in some embodiments. The increase in speed may be derived from reductions in transmission delay and the effects of network latency due to transmission of smaller query chunks instead of an entire search query.

Together the communications module the database module the search module and the result transmission module may be considered to constitute a search server . The communications module may perform a step of receiving one or more databases from a service provider such as the step of the method described below in relation to . The one or more databases may be stored on the search server in the database module for example and may be transmitted to the search module for processing as described below.

The communications module may perform a step of receiving a search query such as the step of the method described below in relation to . The search query may then be transmitted to the search module for purpose of performing a search as described below.

The database module may store the one or more databases received from the service provider. The one or more databases may be stored prior to processing by the search module and or after the processing has taken place. If the database module has not yet received a database from the service provider then the database module may not contain any databases. By storing one or more databases on the database module and processing and searching of the one or more databases may advantageously be performed outside of the infrastructure of the service provider.

The search module may perform the steps of processing the one or more records of the database such as the step of the method described below in relation to . In an exemplary embodiment the search module may optionally determine search parameters of the search query although in other embodiments the search parameters may be received with the search query by the communications module . The search module may also perform the step of determining one or more search results in the processed database such as the step of the method described below in relation to . The aforementioned steps may be performed by separate modules or by the same module as shown in according to various embodiments.

The result transmission module may perform a step of transmitting one or more search results for display to the end user via the network such as the step of the method described below in relation to . The search results may be transmitted to a service provider and relayed to the end user for display. The search results may alternatively be transmitted to the end user for display directly on the user device. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the system in may be merged with or used in conjunction with any of the other exemplary systems described herein.

In exemplary embodiments a record may have fields that include at least one of a destination web address field a record description field a record image field and a record rich content field or any combination thereof. The destination web address field may provide a location of the web page. The record description field may include a brief description of the Internet content associated with the web page. The record image field may include one or more images located on the web page or associated with the web page. The record rich content field may include any suitable audiovisual content associated with the web page including but not limited to sound data video data image data visual effects and the like. The record rich content field may be populated with data that may be presented when the web page is accessed or may be presented when the record is a part of a search result. Each field may be populated as desired by the service provider thereby giving the service provider the ability to control what records in the database are provided in response to a search query while utilizing the cloud computing network. Furthermore by providing rich content in a field associated with a record in the database the service provider may affect how search results are presented or otherwise rendered on a user device.

In an optional step of the method account information may be received from the service provider. The account information may include authentication information billing information and contact information. The account information may be received to create an account on the search server thereby allowing the service provider to utilize the search functionality described herein. Authentication information may include a name and password that provide the service provider the ability to access the appropriate account. Billing information and contact information for the service provider may be provided as well to facilitate receiving compensation in exchange for the search functionality or search results provided by the search server . Further details regarding compensation and or sales revenue related to search functionality or search results are provided later herein.

Having an account on the search server may allow a service provider to submit one or more customized databases to search server and make changes to such databases when desired by the search provider. Data may be received from the service provider to add delete or otherwise modify the one or more records in the database thereby providing the service provider with flexibility in managing and editing the database even after the database has been received by the search server for example . This modification may also be automated using an authenticated script in some embodiments.

At step of the method the one or more records of the database may be processed based on the at least one field. The processing of the database provides information regarding one or more fields that may allow the search server to compare the information for each record to search parameters of the search query. According to various embodiments the search server may determine if there is a match relevancy relatedness association or a certain type of relationship between a record and the search parameters of the search query thereby warranting the inclusion of the record in a listing of search results returned to the end user.

For example when the search query includes sound data processing the database based on the at least one field may further include processing the database to produce a phonetic data for each of the one or more records of the database. The phonetic data may include variations of spoken forms of text data in the at least one field. In exemplary embodiments the database may be processed to produce phonetic data as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0121643 filed on Nov. 2 2009 entitled Melodis Crystal Decoder Method and Device to Keyvan Mohajer et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In such embodiments the service providers may receive the benefit of a speech recognition search engine without having to develop the necessary technology and infrastructure independently.

Likewise when the search parameters include text data processing the database may include identifying keywords from the one or more fields. Furthermore when the search parameters include image data processing the database may include scanning one or more fields containing record image data to identify facets of the record image data for comparison with the search parameters.

In an optional step the processed database may be stored on the search server of for example. Such an embodiment may be advantageous because the search server will not be required to reprocess the database each time a search query is received thereby potentially saving time and providing a quicker response to the search originator.

At step of the method a search query may be received via the network where the search query includes search parameters of the at least one field of the one or more records of the processed database. Furthermore the search query may be provided by sound data input from an end user. The search parameters may be facets or features of the search query. Such facets may be compared to the standardized information produced for each record when the database is processed to determine relevance of a record in the database. Search parameters may include a portion of the search query or the entirety of the search query e.g. when the search query is text the search parameters may be words or combinations of words within the search query . Search parameters may also be derived from the search query in some embodiments e.g. by the search module . For example when the search query includes sound data the search parameters may include phonetic facets of the sound data either in numeric or graphical form.

At step of the method one or more search results may be determined in the processed database based upon the search parameters of the search query. The determining one or more search results in the processed database may be performed by matching the search parameters with the at least one field of the one or more records of the database for example or by comparing the search parameters to the information produced when the one or more databases are processed. Search results may be identified by determining which records include information that most closely resembles the search parameters. The matching may be based on similarity between the search parameters and the one or more fields. In various exemplary embodiments of the technology search parameters may be compared against the information produced when the one or more databases are processed to identify records that are relevant related associated or have a certain type of relationship to that of the search parameters.

In exemplary embodiments when the search parameters are compared with the information for a record in the database a score may be assigned to the record based upon how similar the information is to the search parameters. The search results may then include records having the greatest degree of similarity to the search parameters i.e. records with a similarity score that is highest or lowest depending on how the scoring is performed .

As an example if the processed database includes phonetic data for each record the matching may be performed by comparing the search parameters e.g. phonetic facets of the sound data of the search query with the phonetic data for each record to determine matches that fall within a predetermined tolerance. If the matching record has greater than the predetermined tolerance of similarity to the search query then the matching record may be included within the search results.

In various embodiments the search query may also include a command. The method may further include the optional step of performing a search action of the database based upon the command. The command may provide a way for an end user to further customize and or narrow search results. The command may take the same form as the search query e.g. spoken words text etc. or may take a different form. For example the command may include restricting the search results to the ten most similar records in the one or more databases or may include restricting search results to a specific geographic location. The search server may recognize the command as an additional search parameter and implement the command by performing the specified action in various exemplary embodiments.

At step of the method the one or more search results may be transmitted for display to the end user via the network. As stated hereinabove the one or more search results may be transmitted to the service provider or may be provided to the end user on a user device. The search results may be provided in a list form or any other suitable form and may be rendered together or one by one on a display for the end user. Also the fields of the records included within the search results may also be transmitted for display to the end user. For example search results may include thumbnail images for each record displayed where the thumbnail images are stored in a field in the database for each record.

Various methods may be utilized to organize the one or more search results for when the search results are displayed to the end user. For example the at least one field for each record may include ranking priority. The ranking priority may be assigned by the service provider and may be based on a desired search result order. The one or more search results may then be organized based upon the ranking priority.

Embodiments utilizing ranking priority may be advantageous because the service provider may then be able to present search results in a desired order by merely providing a ranking priority in the one or more databases to be searched. For example if the database includes names of actors as records it is likely that multiple actors may have the same name. By using a ranking priority field the service provider may indicate that more popular actors having a given name is provided to an end user before lesser known actors having the same name. By assigning the highest ranking priority to the most popular actor the service provider may affect the search results while utilizing the cloud computing network for searching the one or more databases.

It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the method may allow service providers to utilize the cloud computing network to provide search functionality for one or more databases. That is the technology allows for the delivery of search and monetization functionalities to service providers including software developers. To facilitate utilization of the search server application programming interfaces APIs and software development kits SDKs may be provided to service providers. Furthermore by allowing service providers to index and organize the one or more databases in the computing cloud the method may provide search functionality without having to create an index to the one or more databases independently. Furthermore in exemplary embodiments by allowing service providers to index their data in the exemplary cloud systems presented herein and by utilizing this technology to search by voice database search results will be transmitted faster and more accurately than a conventional two step process of voice to text conversion followed by a text search.

In addition to providing search functionality for databases provided by service providers a search server such as the exemplary search server described herein may provide standalone search engine capability. To do so the databases that are accessible by the search server and the information produced when the one or more databases or indices are processed may be aggregated to produce an aggregated processed database. An end user may then use a search engine user interface to provide a search query to the aggregated processed database. The search engine user interface may use any suitable interface. In various embodiments of the present technology the search engine user interface may be actuated using a single button in various embodiments. As a result of user input via a search engine user interface the aggregated processed database may be searched and search results may be transmitted for display to the end user. One exemplary method for searching the aggregated proceeded database is provided herein in the method .

The one or more query chunks may include at least one field of the one or more records of a processed database where the database may be processed as described above. By including at least one field search process may be expedited in an exemplary embodiment. For example text data from the search query may be transmitted in a query chunk before chunks related to sound and or image content which may allow the search server to process and return results for the text data portions of the search query before or while the sound and or image content are being received and or compared to records in the database. Such embodiments may increase search speed and enhance the end user experience by reducing the effects of network latency and transmission delay.

Also when the search query includes sound and or image data dividing the search query into query chunks may further expedite the search process. The query chunks may be of substantially equal size or may be of varying sizes depending upon the requirements and preferences of the search provider. Dividing the search query into chunks may allow the search server to process received query chunks and provide search results without having to wait for the entire search query to be received. Such embodiments may enhance the end user s search experience particularly when the search query includes large amounts of sound and or image data.

At step of the method the one or more search results may be determined in the processed database based upon the one or more query chunks of the search query. The one or more search results may be determined using received query chunks which as described above may lead to increased search efficiency since the search server does not need to wait until the entire search query has been received before determining search results. Search parameters may be derived and or extracted from the query chunks and compared to information from records in the processed database.

As described above search results may be determined based upon the search parameters of the query chunks. In various embodiments the search results may be refined as subsequent query chunks are received by the search server. For example a list of search results may be determined using a first query chunk. The list of search results may be reordered when a second query chunk is received by searching the search results using search parameters from the second query chunk. Such an embodiment may provide a search result list more efficiently by not requiring searching the entire database using each query chunk.

At step of the method one or more fields of the one or search results may be selectively transmitted for display in real time to the end user via the network. Each field of a record may include a different type of data such as text data sound data and rich content as described above. The selective transmission of one or more fields may take place by for example selecting fields that are relatively smaller in size compared to other fields. By selectively transmitting one or more fields of records within the search results the search server may transmit fields containing data that is relatively smaller in size compared to data in additional fields. Fields containing relatively smaller data such as text data may be transmitted across the network more efficiently than if data in additional fields were transmitted. By providing search results more rapidly the user search experience may be enhanced.

For example the selectively transmitted field or fields of the one or more search results may include text which may advantageously provide a user with search results more rapidly than if the user were required to wait for additional fields such as image and sound data to be loaded before receiving the search results on a display. The one or more search results may be organized in a search result list which may be presented to the end user so that the end user may have multiple results to select from. Each of the one or more search results may be rendered to the end user one by one to further expedite the receiving of search results rather than waiting for all search results to be received before rendering on the display.

At step of the method one or more additional fields of the one or more search results may be selectively transmitted for display in real time to the end user via the network. The additional field or fields of the one or more search results may include one or more images and or rich content in various embodiments. The additional fields may enhance the search experience by providing audiovisual content that stimulates the user and makes the search experience more rewarding.

Rich content may be used to enhance the presentation of the search results and or search result list. Rich content may be provided for each record by the service provider or may automatically be provided by the search server. Examples of rich content may include sound and or visual effects images animation video content or any combination thereof. There are numerous ways that the rich content may be used to enhance the user experience. For example search results may be presented with audio brackets that cause sound effects to be played when actuated by a user. Sound effects may be utilized while loading rich content and or loading a list of search results. The rich content may also be used to assist in the presentation of search results by using a transparent overlay or by using futuristic graphics and or graphical effects to accompany the presentation of one or more records within the search results. For some computing devices such as the iPad convenient applications or applets may be presented on a first portion of the display such as the left hand side of the display while a list of search results may be presented on a second portion of the display such as the right hand side of the display .

The rich content of the one or more search results may be transmitted and or downloaded in the background such that the rich content is not displayed to the end user while the selectively transmitted field or fields of the one or more search results are displayed to the end user thereby allowing the end user to view the search results while the rich content is being loaded. Additional rich content such as video animations may be played for the end user while search results and or the rich content are being loaded to further entertain and engage the end user. After the selectively transmitted field or fields of the one or more search results has been displayed to the end user the rich content of the one or more search results may then be displayed to the end user.

At step of the method an advertisement database may be searched based upon the search query or the one or more determined search results e.g. the search results determined in step . The advertisement database may also be searched based upon a search history that comprises historic search parameters in some embodiments. The search history may include one or more historic search queries each having associated historic search parameters. The historic search parameters may reflect network use tendencies of an end user such as web sites frequently visited by the end user search queries frequently received from the end user and the like.

The search history may include various combinations of historic search queries tailored to affect the search of the advertisement database. The search history may include the search parameters of the search query for example so that the advertisement results are tailored to reflect the search query. The search parameters may be used alone or in combination with other historic search parameters to search the advertisement database.

In some embodiments the search history may include search parameters from all search queries associated with a single service provider e.g. the service provider associated with the processed database or a service provider that has negotiated for the right to provide advertisement on searches of the processed database . Such an embodiment may be advantageous because advertisement results may be provided that are more relevant to the user s search query thereby enhancing the search experience while monetizing the search experience for advertisers.

In further embodiments the search history comprises search parameters from all search queries associated with a plurality of service providers. Such embodiments may provide the end user with a variety of advertisements reflecting the end user s preferences as reflected in the historic search parameters. Again such an embodiment may be advantageous because advertisement results may be provided that are more relevant to the user s search query thereby enhancing the search experience while monetizing the search experience for advertisers.

At step of the method one or more advertisement results may be generated across the one or more application verticals based upon the search of the advertisement database. In various embodiments the advertisement results may be targeted based on a current search result where the current search result is from the processed database and is provided in response to the search query. The advertisement results may also be targeted based on user demographics e.g. from an end user profile submitted to the search server user interest activity history of a user on the Internet service or any combination thereof. The revenues generated from advertising may be shared with service providers and other parties involved using for example service provider accounts such as service provider account .

At step of the method the one or more advertisement results may be transmitted via the network e.g. for display to the end user . The one or more advertisement results may be associated with one or more search results as described above. The advertisement results may be transmitted in an advertisement list for example organized in order of relevance to the historic search parameters. The advertisement list may be presented in any suitable fashion such as in a separate area of a search results page that includes search results from the processed database transmitted in response to the end user s search query.

Also the methods and or steps described herein may be combined. For example the method may be combined with the method to provide search results and advertisement results in various embodiments.

In an optional step the method may further include organizing the one or more advertisement results based upon a bid value associated with each advertisement result. Each advertisement result may be associated with an advertiser. Within the advertisement database which includes records having at least one field for each record there may be a field for bid value. When a record in the advertisement database is included in the advertisement results the advertisement results may be organized such that for example records having higher bid values may be located earlier in the advertisement results. Organizing the advertisement results based upon bid value fields may advantageously promote competition among advertisers in the advertisement database who may wish to increase a bid value associated with a given record to increase visibility of that record within the advertisement results.

Bid values may be associated with keywords in various embodiments. When a keyword within search parameters of the search query is used to search the advertisement database multiple advertiser records may be included in the advertisement results. By bidding higher than a competitor on the keyword a service provider may promote its service and related products offerings by causing the service provider to appear more prominently within the advertisement results e.g. by placing the service provider s advertisement higher in the advertisement results or by highlighting the service provider s advertisement using images or rich content . Thus keyword bidding system may be offered to the advertisers to promote their applications and offerings based on search parameters and or search terms.

Advertising provided with search results may provide many ways of monetizing the functionality provided to service providers. Revenue may be provided to a provider of the search server described above based on a pay per click model. Advertisers participating in the advertisement database pay a predetermined amount when end users click on an advertisement in the advertisement results. Revenues generated from the advertisements on search results of a service provider s processed database may be shared between the service provider and other parties involved.

According to some embodiments the search server may employ a natural language query processor hereinafter NLQP to search databases by sound input. More specifically the NLQP may be utilized to generate aggregated natural language libraries and process natural language queries using the generated libraries. Generally speaking the NLQP may generate an aggregated natural language library from a plurality e.g. two or more of natural language libraries. The plurality of natural language libraries may be generated by a plurality of developers e.g. service providers that develop client applications where each developer may generate a natural language library for a specific client application. An application developer may desire to enable speech recognition functions within their applications that allow end users to interact with the application using spoken commands. In order to provide accurate responses to spoken queries provided by end users of the application the developer may generate a natural language library for the application. In other instances the developer may utilize the aggregated natural language library generated by the present technology.

According to some embodiments the NLQP may manage individual or unique e.g. rather than aggregated natural language libraries for each service provider. The individual natural language library may be customized to the specific needs of the service provider and or the clients of the service provider. For example a travel website may employ a different customized natural language library relative to a music website. Additionally the customization of natural language libraries may encourage competing service providers to generate more robust and response natural language libraries.

Broadly speaking a natural language library may include natural language queries that would be commonly encountered by the application along with a response or action that should be executed by the application when the query is received. The developer may pre load the application with the natural language library to process these commonly encountered natural language queries.

According to some embodiments some of these natural language libraries may comprise a developer generated library. A developer generated library may include a topic or subject matter that has been associated with the library via the developer. For example the developer may manage a navigation application. Thus the natural language library associated with the application may have a subject matter of navigation attributed thereto. In some instances the developer generated library may include a plurality of topics associated therewith.

These natural language libraries may be somewhat limited because developers or natural language processing systems may not properly anticipate various permutations inherent in natural language queries. For example a simple natural language query such as What time is my next appointment may also be expressed as When is my next appointment or My next appointment is when and so forth. If the developer has not accounted for some of these permutations the natural language queries may not be fulfilled.

According to other embodiments rather than a list of natural language queries and responses a natural language library may comprise a rule based schema that is trained on natural language queries and responses. As such the natural language library may more closely correspond to a programming language than a list of question and answer pairs. For example the present technology may analyze several permutations for the same natural language phrase that when answered generate substantially the same response. Using these questions and response the present technology may abstract out of that information a methodology for dealing with future similar natural language queries. By way of non limiting example the presence of the word next and appointment when located within two or three words from one another in a natural language query may indicate to the system that end user wants some type of information regarding their next temporally subsequent appointment. Also the presence of the word when in the natural language query may inform the system that the end user is asking a time related question. This information may be combined into a rule based schema for processing future similar natural language queries.

In order to reduce the likelihood that a natural language query may go unanswered unfulfilled a natural language library generated by the NLQP may be utilized. Again this library may be generated either from a plurality of natural language libraries or may also comprise a customized natural language library. These types of natural language libraries provide a more robust and comprehensive set of information relative to list oriented natural language libraries. That is the natural language library may contain rule based representations of natural language queries because the library is not limited to natural language query and response pairs.

Developers or natural language processing systems may then access and utilize an aggregated natural language library rather than their limited natural language library and derive the benefit of a larger corpus of information. In other instances developers or others may be incentivized to generate robust and customized natural language libraries to better serve the natural language queries of their customers.

In some embodiments the NLQP may employ crowdsourcing to generate an aggregated natural language library from content generated by many separate service providers developers.

Once natural language libraries have been received by the NLQP the NLQP may process each natural language library to determine how best to integrate the contents of the individual libraries into an aggregated natural language library. As mentioned above a natural language library may be associated with a particular application service provider and or developer that utilize the library.

In some instances the application is directed to providing some type of information service or product to an end user. Moreover as mentioned above the natural language library may comprise natural language queries and associated responses. For example a natural language query may include Search for the nearest gas station while the response associated with that query includes a command or action and possibly associated data that is understandable by a mapping or navigation application querying an information source to determine the nearest gas station proximate the location of the end user. The results may be returned to the end user via a graphical user interface that comprises a map and pinpointed locations on the map. Advantageously each natural language query in the natural language library may be associated with at least one response. Additionally several natural language queries may be associated with the same response to deal with the variability inherent in natural language queries such as when two differently worded queries are asking the same question.

With respect to the response that is generated by the NLQP a response format may also be customized depending on the application that employs the NLQP as well as the needs of the developer and or service provider. By way of non limiting example a natural language query of play the third track in the first Mariah Carey album may cause a music player application to return a response that is a combination of actions and meta data. The action may be play the meta data may comprise Artist Mariah Carey Album Emotions Track Can t Let Go. The developer can use the combination of the action i.e. play and meta data to executed the desired command via the music player application. This example is descriptive and illustrative of the fact that responses may be customized depending upon the context of the natural language query or the needs of the service provider developer. For example if the service provider prefers to sell new music to the end user rather than returning the meta data described above the service provider may choose to have a link to other Albums from other Artists that may be of interest to the end user based upon their query.

The NLQP may receive natural language libraries from disparate sources and utilizing the information contained in the libraries generate an aggregated natural language library.

In some instances the NLQP may generate aggregated natural language sub libraries that provide natural language query processing for specific applications. That is a plurality of natural language libraries for different navigation applications may be combined together e.g. aggregated to generate a more comprehensive natural language library that may be utilized by the related navigation applications. Additionally other similar applications may also utilize the aggregated natural language library even if the application is not directly associated with aggregated natural language sub library. For example a reservation application may receive location based natural language queries which could be processed by a navigation application.

In some instances the natural language sub libraries may comprise individual customized natural language libraries for different service providers.

According to some embodiments developers may be compensated for participating in the generation of the aggregated natural language library by providing and or updating their individual natural language libraries.

As mentioned earlier a natural language library may be associated with a particular service provider and by extension a particular type of subject matter. For example a navigation application that provides navigational services may utilize a particular natural language library. Therefore the subject matter of the natural language library may be associated with the service s provided by the application. The NLQP may determine the subject matter associated with the natural language library by detecting keywords included in the natural language library queries or responses. In other instances the natural language library may be tagged with identifying information.

Regardless of how the NLQP determines the service subject matter associated with the natural language query the NLQP may group or combine the contents queries and responses for similar natural language libraries together into a single natural language library. The establishment of aggregated and individual customized natural language libraries may increase the search efficiency of the NLQP as will be discussed in greater detail below.

After the establishment of aggregated natural language library and in some instances natural language sub libraries the NLQP may receive queries from end users via their client devices. In other instances the queries may be received from a service provider application that supports natural language query processing e.g. the developer applications .

In accordance with the present technology the query may comprise sound data input such as a spoken natural language query. The natural language query may comprise any request that is recognizable and or actionable by the application and or device that receives the natural language query. Continuing with the example set forth a natural language query of Locate the nearest gas station may be received by a client device that executes a navigation application in conjunction with the NLQP . A voice capturing device such as a microphone which is associated with the client device receives the sound data input e.g. spoken natural language query . The sound data input may be transmitted by the client device to the search server sometimes via the navigation application In other embodiments a natural language query application executing on the client device may transmit the sound data input instead of the navigation application.

Once the natural language query is received the NLQP may compare the content of the natural language query to the aggregated natural language library to determine if the query corresponds to at least one query included in the aggregated natural language library. The NLQP may utilize the entire phrase of the natural language query or in some embodiments only a portion of the natural language query.

As mentioned above because the aggregated natural language library may comprise aggregated natural language sub libraries the natural language query may be compared against one or more of the aggregated natural language sub libraries rather than against the entire aggregated natural language library. The NLQP may determine the subject matter associated with the natural language query by locating keywords or phrases included in the query. The NLQP may select one or more aggregated natural language sub libraries that are to be queried against based upon this determined information. Allowing the natural language query to be searched against a smaller subset of the entire aggregated natural language library may increase the efficiency of the search process and decrease application latency experience by the end user.

If the NLQP locates a query in either the aggregated natural language library or an aggregated natural language sub library the NLQP may obtain the response associated with the query. It will be understood that the response that is obtained may include not only the actual response that was generated by the service provider application but the methodology for generating the response. For example if a first navigation application is to utilize a response for a certain natural language query generated by a second navigation application it may be beneficial to understand how the response was generated rather than the actual response. If the first navigation application receives a natural language query of Where is a close library and the first navigation application is unable to process the natural language query the first navigation application may provide this natural language query to the NLQP . A corresponding query generated by the second navigation application may be located by the NLQP in an aggregated natural language sub library for navigation applications.

As an aside it may provide little benefit to the first navigation application to receive the actual search results that were generated for this particular query because the location information for the end user may be different from the location information for the end users that generated the natural language query that was processed by the second navigation application. Thus a more valuable response would comprise how the second navigation application fulfilled the query such as how the second navigation application interpreted the query the database of information that was accessed how the location information for the end user was obtained and so forth. In sum the responses that are stored in the aggregated natural language library may include many types of information that may assist the NLQP in fulfilling similar natural language queries for other applications.

The comparisons performed by the NLQP may not always result in completely perfect matches for natural language queries. Advantageously the NLQP may be configured to allow for matching of natural language queries when there is a substantial similarity or at least some similarity between the natural language query received from the end user and a natural language query that is included in the aggregated natural language library. For example an end user natural language query What times it may substantially correspond to a natural language query of What time is it in the aggregated natural language library. The NLQP may infer that these two queries are substantially similar because they were both received by a calendaring application. These types of fuzzy matching between received and stored queries allow the NLQP to provide responses in instances where requiring an exact match would produce an error.

According to some embodiments the NLQP may be utilized to enhance the accuracy of a speech recognition system by narrowing down possibilities in a language model to a smaller set. Again individuals may express natural language queries an almost infinite number of ways even when attempting to achieve the same response. Moreover each natural language query may be subject to a large number of interpretation possibilities due to word choice language syntax and or grammar just to name a few. According to some embodiments the NLQP may be utilized to narrow down the possible interpretations of the natural language query. The NLQP may return a list of one or more possible interpretations for the natural language query.

As with many other types of information described herein the individual customized natural language libraries the aggregated natural language library and the aggregated natural language sub libraries may be stored in a storage component such as the one or more databases of .

In some instances the NLQP may not be able to determine a response for the natural language query because no correspondence between the natural language query and entries in the aggregated natural language library can be found. In these instances the NLQP may provide the natural language query to a plurality of service providers e.g. developers in an effort to generate an appropriate interpretation for the natural language query. In some instances the NLQP may allow for crowdsourcing for the interpretation of the query along with the response.

According to other embodiments the NLQP may receive natural language queries from the end user client device. When the natural language query is compared against the aggregated natural language library and a matching query is located the NLQP may direct the natural language query to service providers such as developer applications associated with the matching query. In these instances the NLQP acts as a routing mechanism for directing natural language queries to applications or service providers that are best suited to fulfill the natural language query. Thus the more robust the natural language library is for a service provider the more likely the service provider will have natural language queries directed to them increasing their opportunities to fulfill requests engage with potential customers and generate revenue. Correspondingly as service providers create more robust natural language libraries the content of the aggregated natural language library increases.

In some instances service providers may retain their own natural language library. The library may be periodically modified as new natural language queries are received and fulfilled. To increase the content of the aggregated natural language library the service providers may upload their natural language queries to the NLQP . In other embodiments the NLQP may communicate with the service provider to detect changes in the natural language library of the service provider. Each time an entry is added to a natural language library and detected by the NLQP the aggregated natural language library may be updated.

In accordance with the present disclosure the NLQP may employ a crowd sourcing development interface that allows developers e.g. service providers or other contributors to choose to make their natural language libraries available to others. Advantageously other developers can then use these shared libraries in their service.

Developers can submit a particular natural language query sample that is received by the NLQP for example by typing in the a text box on a website or by submitting the query to an API or even by speaking it to an interface and in response the NLQP may generate a set of all the other libraries that matched all or part of the sample query. When the set of matched libraries is returned by the NLQP the developer can see a description of the libraries and other use cases that they support. Then the developer can choose to use some or all of the matched libraries to design update their natural language query system. Thus developers can reduce duplicative effort by employing these crowd sourced natural language libraries.

By way of non limiting example a developer might want to design a system that calculates the day of a week that corresponds to a particular date. The developer may submit a sample query such as tell me what day of the week is Jan. 14 2012. The NLQP may indicate that tell me matched an existing natural language library that covers other queries such as please tell me I want to know I would like to know I wanna know and so forth. The developer can choose to use this library to cover all or a substantial portion the cases that correspond to the meaning of tell me. In this example the date Jan. 14 2012 could also match a natural language library that covers dates with different date format variations. Thus the developer does not have to create a system that understands dates from scratch and can build on top of the work that is already done by others.

The development environment can become more sophisticated and can automatically detect what the developer is typing and in real time or in the background make suggestions to the developer about the existing libraries that match and are available for use. For example even if the developer is not looking for existing libraries as soon as the developer types in the words tell me the NLQP can alert the developer that there are existing libraries that can be used to cover this and similar set of queries.

Additionally when the NLQP presents matching libraries to the developer it is also possible to present a measure of popularity for each library. For example if the libraries are being used in a service with live traffic a popularity measure that corresponds to the number of hits to each library in a given time period could be presented. Advantageously these metrics allow the developer to better decide which library to use.

In some embodiments the NLQP may allow developers to expand their libraries by induction and or merging. For example when two or more natural language libraries have a substantial amount of subject matter in common with one another and or correspond to similar services the NLQP may determine that these natural language libraries cover the same domain e.g. subject matter . In some instances the two or more libraries may not be identical and there could be some cases in one library that do not belong to the other and vice versa. Thus the NLQP may combine these libraries together to create a new natural language library that covers all or a substantial portion of cases. For example natural language library A could cover tell me and please tell me and natural language library B could cover tell me and I want to know. The NLQP may automatically generate a third natural language library that comprises the phrases tell me please tell me and I want to know. According to some embodiments when a user of natural language library A inputs a natural language query such as I want to know the NLQP could provide a suitable response to the natural language query despite the fact that the developer of natural language library A did not predict that particular query input by the user.

According to some embodiments an exemplary process of converting a speech query to text by the NLQP generally involves utilizing language models to determine the most likely sequence of words that may apply to a particular query. If the language model contains smaller number of possibilities the NLQP can convert the audio query to text with higher accuracy simply because there are fewer possibilities to choose from in the language model. In a standard speech to text system there is generally one all encompassing language model that applies to all queries. However the NLQP of the present technology can narrow down the language model to a smaller subset by analyzing the natural language query prior to fully converting the speech query into text and determining the topic or subject of the query. For example before fully converting a query from speech to text the NLQP may determine whether the query is generally related to travel weather calendar management contact dialling and so forth. Upon successfully determining that the subject of the query is travel the NLQP may then use a customized language model that only pertains to travel therefore eliminating numerous possibilities in the other categories within the language mode and substantially reducing the number of possibilities. These functionalities may result in overall higher accuracy of the conversion of a natural language query from speech to text. Thus these features may be apply to any speech to text system and is therefore not limited to systems that incorporate only natural language process.

Similarly to natural language libraries the NLQP may also update the content of one or more language models utilized to process speech input and or search queries. Thus as the NLQP encounters new types of speech input search queries the NLQP may update the language models to reflect knowledge determined during the processing of such types of speech input search queries.

By way of non limiting example the NLQP may be utilized to convert a speech input to text such as a speech input that is to be converted into an email message. An exemplary speech input may comprise Send an email to Larry with subject Lunch Meeting and body that includes Meet me downstairs for lunch. 

The NLQP may evaluate keywords or phrases included in the speech input to initially determine that the speech input is a request to transcribe an email from speech input. Again the NLQP may utilize natural language libraries and or keyword or phraseology analysis to assist in evaluating different types of subject matter which may be included in the speech input and or inferring a topic s or subject matter s associated therewith.

The NLQP may then determine which language models are to be utilized to process the speech input. For example knowing that the speech input is a request to transcribe an email the NLQP may select a subject line language model and a body section language model to further process the speech input into an email format as well as other models that may be appropriate for an email communication. The NLQP may compare the speech input to a language model for subject lines for emails as well as a language model for body sections of emails.

Once the NLQP determines a topic s associated with the two sections of the speech input the NLQP may intelligently select one or more language models that may be utilized to transcribe the speech input into text. Thus using appropriate language models for email subject lines and body sections the NLQP may efficiently transcribe the speech input to text according to their respective categories e.g. subject line body email address signature etc. .

Additionally the method may include the step of generating an aggregated natural language library from the received natural language libraries. Step may also include steps for generating aggregated natural language sub libraries. Again as mentioned above in some embodiments the sub libraries may correspond with individual developers potentially customized for that developer s need or the requirements of a client application. Customization can be implemented by the developers and may include how queries and responses are formatted where responses may include a combination of actions and corresponding data also meta data .

The method may also include a step of receiving a search query via the network. In some instances the search query may comprise a sound based input and or a natural language search query which may or may not be sound based . The search query may be processed to determine a topic or subject matter for the search query. In some embodiments search query may be received from an end user client device.

The method may further include a step of comparing the search query to the aggregated natural language library to determine at least one natural language query that corresponds to the search query followed by a step of providing a response to the search query from the aggregated natural language library to a client device or a web based interface.

In some embodiments the natural language library that is selected by the system may comprise a natural language library that produces the most accurate response to the natural language query. Therefore natural language library developers may be incentivized to create even more robust and accurate natural language libraries.

According to some embodiments the method may comprise a step of receiving a natural language search query via the network the natural language search query at least comprising sound data input. Once the sound data input has been determined the method may comprise a step of comparing the sound data input to a customized natural language library to determine a customized response for the sound input data. Again as mentioned above the customized natural language library may comprise a rule based model for processing natural language queries where the rule based model being trained on natural language queries for interacting with a client application. According to some embodiments the natural language library may also comprise customized responses for the natural language queries that are tailored to any of the service provider and the client application.

Additionally the method may comprise a step of providing the customized response to the at least one natural language query from a customized response associated with at least one natural language query included in the natural language library.

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor unit and main memory may be connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage device and display system may be connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass storage device which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor unit . Mass storage device can store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present invention for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk or Digital video disc to input and output data and code to and from the computer system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present invention may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computer system via the portable storage device .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alpha numeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alpha numeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Display system may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Display system receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripherals may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computer system. Peripheral device s may include a modem or a router.

The components contained in the computer system of are those typically found in computer systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computer system of can be a personal computer hand held computing device telephone mobile computing device workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing device. The computer can also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems can be used including UNIX Linux Windows Macintosh OS Palm OS and other suitable operating systems.

Some of the above described functions may be composed of instructions that are stored on storage media e.g. computer readable medium . The instructions may be retrieved and executed by the processor. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tapes disks and the like. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the invention. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage media.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the invention. The terms computer readable storage medium and computer readable storage media as used herein refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as system RAM. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics among others including the wires that comprise one embodiment of a bus. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. While the present invention has been described in connection with a series of embodiments these descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the invention to the particular forms set forth herein. It will be further understood that the methods of the invention are not necessarily limited to the discrete steps or the order of the steps described. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the Internet service may be configured to provide Internet access to one or more computing devices that are coupled to the Internet service and that the computing devices may include one or more processors buses memory devices display devices input output devices and the like. Furthermore those skilled in the art may appreciate that the Internet service may be coupled to one or more databases repositories servers and the like which may be utilized in order to implement any of the embodiments of the invention as described herein. One skilled in the art will further appreciate that the term Internet content comprises one or more of web sites domains web pages web addresses hyperlinks URLs any text pictures and or media such as video audio and any combination of audio and video provided or displayed on a web page and any combination thereof.

While specific embodiments of and examples for the system are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the system as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or steps are presented in a given order alternative embodiments may perform routines having steps in a different order and some processes or steps may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or sub combinations. Each of these processes or steps may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or steps are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or steps may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the system have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the system. Accordingly the system is not limited except as by the appended claims.

