---

title: Method and apparatus for reading a non-volatile memory using a spin torque oscillator
abstract: A method and apparatus for reading electronic memory comprising a current source, a spin transfer oscillator, an external field source, coupled to the current source, for generating an RF signal, the spin torque oscillator positioned proximate a magnetic media comprising a plurality of bit regions of varying magnetic permeability, wherein a frequency of the RF signal varies in response to the permeability of a bit region in the plurality of bit regions being proximate the spin torque oscillator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09030780&OS=09030780&RS=09030780
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09030780
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 680 834 filed Aug. 8 2012 which is herein incorporated by reference.

Government Interest The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to memory devices and more specifically to a method and apparatus for reading non volatile magnetic memory.

Most modern memory is based on the evolution of magnetic recording. One form of magnetic memory is a hard disk wherein magnetic bits of information are stored on a magnetic film medium in very small localized regions. Depending on the magnetization within a region each region represents either a logic high or logic low value i.e. a 1 or 0 . The regions are electronically read via moving mechanical read write heads. The heads are mounted proximate a spinning disk supporting a magnetic film. A read head operates by sensing changes in the resistance of the sensor in the read head induced by the data bit regions as they pass under the read head. A write head stores data on the disk by utilizing magnetic flux to set the direction and amplitude of the magnetic moment for each bit region passing beneath the write head.

Disk storage has a limited storage lifetime bit density and volatility. The magnetic medium used in traditional disk storage degrades within 10 years. The information is stored in small magnetic bit regions through magnetizing each region in a particular direction. Over time the magnetization of the bit regions is corrupted by external electromagnetic forces through prolonged exposure to the Earth s magnetic field or through thermal upsets. Thermal upsets are statistical processes that occur when the magnetization of a bit region is thermally activated to overcome the anisotropy barrier.

Bit density of conventional hard disks is near 200 Gbits in however bit region size is limited by the superparamagnetic limit. Traditional magnetic recording is approaching the superparamagnetic limit. Thus further advances in storage density using traditional storage techniques is becoming increasingly difficult.

As electronic recording evolves and more information is digitized there exists not just a critical necessity for storage volume but also storage permanency. Therefore a need exists for high density stable non volatile memory with a longer storage lifetime.

A method and apparatus for reading electronic memory comprising a current source a spin transfer oscillator coupled to the current source for generating a radio frequency RF signal a magnetic probe field a magnetic media comprising bit regions of varying magnetic permeability the spin torque oscillator positioned proximate the magnetic media wherein a frequency of the RF signal varies in response to the change of the magnetic probe field and or a self field of the spin transfer oscillator caused by the permeability of the bit region proximate the spin torque oscillator are provided herein. Other and further embodiments of the present invention are described below.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. The figures are not drawn to scale and may be simplified for clarity. It is contemplated that elements and features of one embodiment may be beneficially incorporated in other embodiments without further recitation.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to reading magnetic memory comprising regions of high and low magnetic permeability using a spin torque oscillator STO . The STO can have various forms that include magnetic tunnel junctions and spin valves. One embodiment includes a current source driving an STO to produce an RF signal. The STO is positioned proximate a magnetic media and a spectrum analyzer measures a frequency of an RF signal that varies in response to the permeability of bit regions on the magnetic media.

The media is comprised of individually aligned bit regions and of material capable of being written and kept in a stable non volatile state while still maintaining their magnetic permeability such as Permalloy or Metglas. Metglas for example may be written with a laser such that cooling rates determine whether a bit region has a high permeability amorphous state or low permeability crystalline state . The cooling rate of a laser that gradually turns off is vastly different to a laser that instantly turns off. The cooling rates produce two distinct permeability regions on the Metglas that represent 1 s and 0 s. The resultant bit data may be permanent so long as the Metglas is not exposed to high heat i.e. in excess of 500 C. . The bit regions may be radially aligned on a disk or arranged as a grid for accurately locating and reading the individual regions of the media .

In the embodiment of the STO has a magnetic tunnel junction. The STO also known as a spin transfer oscillator or spin transfer torque microwave oscillator is comprised of a top electrode a magnetic free layer a non magnetic layer insulator a magnetic fixed i.e. pinned layer and a lower electrode . A current is passed from the current source through the STO electrodes and such that spin polarized current passes through the insulator . The magnetic moment of the free layer is parallel to the non magnetic layer which in some embodiments may be comprised of an insulating non magnetic material such as Magnesium Oxide MgO or Aluminum Oxide AlO . The combination of the fixed layer insulator and free layer forms what is known as a magnetic tunnel junction. In the magnetic tunnel junction the non magnetic insulating layer acts as a spacer to magnetically decouple the free layer and the fixed layer . If the nonmagnetic layer is instead a conductor the STO is a spin valve. In either case the free layer of the STO can rotate in response to external magnetic fields discussed further below and or spin polarized currents

In the STO a spin polarized current driven through the fixed layer tends to cause the magnetization to align parallel to the magnetization of the fixed layer . This tendency results from the angular momentum of the electrons in the current giving rise to torque that acts on the magnetization of the free layer. This torque prevents the magnetization of the free layer from aligning in the direction of the magnetic field. Instead the magnetization of the free layer precesses around the magnetic field and the system emits microwave radiation at the Larmor frequency that is set by the magnetic field strength. If current is driven from the free layer to the fixed layer the tunneling electrons align with the free layer then impact and reflect off the fixed layer . These electrons then interact with the free layer and tend to align the free layer anti parallel to the fixed layer . Again the torque transfer causes microwave oscillation. In either case the magnetization of the free layer precesses and the STO radiates microwave energy at a Larmor frequency that is proportional to the vector cross product right arrow over M right arrow over H where right arrow over M is the magnetization of the free layer and right arrow over H is the effective field acting on the magnetization of the free layer.

The current density driving the STO must be very high e.g. 10amps cm and be spin polarized. The motion of the free layer is governed by a modification of Landau Lifshitze Gilbert LLG equation 

The first term on the right hand side of the equation 1 i.e. right arrow over M right arrow over H gives rise to the precession and the second term

The permeability of the media modifies the effective magnetic field right arrow over H in equation 1 in that it attracts magnetic field lines into the regions of the media with high permeability. In general the media affects both the magnitude and direction of right arrow over H . Depending on the geometry i.e. the position of the high permeability regions in the media the media can either increase or decrease the field at the position of the STO. The change in right arrow over H depends on the amount of permeability for a specific bit area region of a plurality of bit regions on the media . Because of the first term in Eq. 1 the change in right arrow over H changes the precession frequency and thus the frequency of the microwave radiation emitted by the STO. Since the STO has a high quality factor Q small changes in the microwave radiation are easily detectable.

The voltage across the STO may be directly measured with the spectrum analyzer such that the changes in the precession frequency may be directly detected. Otherwise changes may be indirectly detected through measurement of the amplitude and the shift width of the resonance frequency. Other embodiments may include an antenna to indirectly capture and couple the signal to the spectrum analyzer .

The magnetic permeable media will modify the RF signal from the STO in two ways. Firstly the permeability will modify the magnetic field at the position of the STO by drawing in magnetic flux. Modifying the field will shift the RF precession frequency. Secondly the media will absorb microwave energy because of resistive losses. Since energy is absorbed this will decrease the amplitude of the oscillation and lower the Q.

As the reader operates based on the magnetic permeability of the media the memory is non volatile as permeability is an intrinsic property. Lifetime integrity is also extended almost indefinitely as the media no longer needs to hold a minimum energy for maintaining the magnetization direction that determines the bit value of the individual bit regions. Furthermore since the reader is not reliant on the magnetization direction of the regions the media is not limited by the superparamagnetic limit and may have greater bit volume. Thus in some exemplary embodiments the reader may read bits that are 20 20 nm or 400 nm with a bit density of 2 10 cm. The bit values detected by the spectrum analyzer may then be output to a computer for additional processing of the information.

In the above embodiment the magnetic field generators and may be permanent magnets electromagnets and or the like. In some instances the reader may use the magnetic field generators and to generate a probe magnetic field when the STO does not emit the correct RF frequency. The addition of the magnetic field generators and allows for improved freedom to tailor the STO for particular media by modifying the frequency of the microwave radiation from the STO . Alternatively one can control the proximate magnetic field generators and to optimize performance with a given STO. A large frequency shift arising from applying the magnetic field generators and allows the STO to operate within a larger frequency band. The frequency modification thus may effectively change the RF frequency of the STO to accommodate for the sensitivity of instruments such as the spectrum analyzer .

The frequency counter digitizes the resulting IF signal for the threshold comparator . The comparator applies predetermined known criteria for anticipated frequency shift values for a high or low permeability bit. The results of the high or low bits i.e. 1 or 0 are then output for processing by the computer comprising a processor memory that may include support circuits . The processor in some embodiments may be a microprocessor or microcontroller to execute instructions and store bit values in memory . The memory includes a signal processing module for interpreting signals ultimately generated by the STO and a controller module to ensure alignment of the STO and media . Support circuits may include A D converters D A converters alignment sensors or circuitry of the STO and media as well as signal processing for a user interface. Further embodiments may include using the computer to measure the frequency response for a change in quality factor gain or impedance matching.

The criterion includes a threshold for a 1 bit value at step which if returned true flags the bit location as a 1 . The method then determines if there are more bits to be read at step which if true proceeds back to align the STO with the next bit in the media or else the method ends . However if at step it is determined the 1 bit value threshold is not met the method determines whether the threshold for the bit value is a 0 at step . Should the threshold for bit 0 be met the bit location is accordingly fagged as a 0 and the method continues to determine if more bits are to be read at step . However if step determines the threshold for the 0 bit value is not met the method ends as an error or inconclusive reading. In an exemplary embodiment wherein the frequency response is measured the measurement of the bandwidth is compared with predetermined frequency criterion for bit values. As an example a 1 is where f f 2 and 0 is f 0 where fis the preset expected value for the high permeability bit.

Other further embodiments may include rewritable media such as Metglas. Metglas is a material that has a high magnetic permeability of approximately 10 000 N Ain the amorphous state and a low permeability of approximately 5 10 N Awhen it is crystalline. By controlling the cooling rate from above 500 C. after heating for example through an e beam or evanescent wave it is possible to rewrite the media by making the material either crystalline or amorphous. Further embodiments may also include n levels that are signally based on corresponding n levels of permeability. The multiple levels of permeability may thus also allow for more information to be stored per bit area and or greater bit density. A given permeability level may represent a symbol comprising multiple bits. Nevertheless the reader disclosed above utilizes intrinsic magnetic permeability and thus provides the ability to read magnetic media that is effectively immune from corruption by magnetic fields.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

