---

title: Methods and devices for storing content based on classification options
abstract: Methods and devices for storing content are described. In one example embodiment, a method includes: displaying, on a display of an electronic device, a plurality of selectable content classification options for classifying a content item, the selectable content classification options including a selectable option to classify the content item as an action item and a selectable option to classify the content item as an archive; receiving, via an input interface associated with the electronic device, a selection of one of the content classification options; and storing the content item in accordance with the selected content classification option.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09411876&OS=09411876&RS=09411876
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09411876
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120810
---
The present application relates to content storage and classification and more particularly to methods and electronic devices for storing a content item as an archive or an action item.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers often allow users to create receive and capture content. For example a camera may be included in an electronic device to allow an image to be captured of a real world event. Such images may be obtained by a camera application and stored along with other such images in a container reserved for storing such images. For example images may be stored in a picture folder. A software application or module may access the images in the folder and provide a slideshow or picture album. All images in the folder may be accessed and may be displayed in a common interface. For example thumbnail images of all images in the folder may be displayed.

Electronic devices may include other applications for accessing or creating other types of content. For example word processing applications may create word processing documents notepad applications may create notes and a personal information manager PIM may be used to create tasks.

Such applications provide little control over the manner by which content is stored classified or accessed. For example the manner by which content is stored or classified is largely dependent on the manner by which content is received.

In one example embodiment the present application describes a method of storing content. The method includes displaying on a display of an electronic device a plurality of selectable content classification options for classifying a content item the selectable content classification options including a selectable option to classify the content item as an action item and a selectable option to classify the content item as an archive receiving via an input interface associated with the electronic device a selection of one of the content classification options and storing the content item in accordance with the selected content classification option.

In another example embodiment the present application describes an electronic device. The electronic device includes a display and an input interface. The electronic device also includes a processor coupled with the display and the input interface and a memory coupled with the processor. The memory contains processor executable instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to display on a display of an electronic device a plurality of selectable content classification options for classifying a content item the selectable content classification options including a selectable option to classify the content item as an action item and a selectable option to classify the content item as an archive receive via an input interface associated with the electronic device a selection of one of the content classification options and store the content item in accordance with the selected content classification option.

In yet another example embodiment the present application describes a computer readable storage medium including computer executable instructions for displaying on a display of an electronic device a plurality of selectable content classification options for classifying a content item the selectable content classification options including a selectable option to classify the content item as an action item and a selectable option to classify the content item as an archive receiving via an input interface associated with the electronic device a selection of one of the content classification options and storing the content item in accordance with the selected content classification option.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which illustrates an example electronic device . In the illustrated example embodiment the electronic device is a communication device such as a mobile communication device. In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smart phone a tablet computer such as a slate computer an electronic book reader a wearable computer such as a watch a PDA personal digital assistant or a computer system.

A smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capabilities than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example a smartphone may have an ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

A tablet computer which may also be referred to as a tablet is an electronic device which is generally larger than a mobile phone such as a smartphone or personal digital assistant. Many mobile phones or personal digital assistants are designed to be pocket sized. That is mobile phones or personal digital assistants are generally small enough to be carried by a person easily often in a shirt or pant pocket while tablet computers are larger and may not fit within pant pockets. For example many tablet computers have a height which is seven inches 7 or more. In some example embodiments the tablet computer may be a slate computer. A slate computer is a tablet computer which does not include a dedicated keyboard. A slate computer may allow for text input through the use of a virtual keyboard or an external keyboard which connects to the slate computer via a wired or wireless connection.

In at least some embodiments the electronic device is a handheld electronic device. A handheld electronic device is an electronic device which is sufficiently small to be held in the hands of a user. The term handheld electronic device includes smartphones and may also include tablet computers. In at least some embodiments the handheld electronic device may be sufficiently small to be held in a single hand of a user. For example the handheld electronic device may be a palm sized device which is sized to be held in the palm of a user s hand. From the description which follows it will be appreciated that the techniques and methods described herein may be used in electronic devices having limited display capabilities. For example the methods of storing classifying and accessing content described herein may be used with the relatively small displays provided by smartphones.

The electronic device includes a housing not shown which houses components of the electronic device . The internal components of the electronic device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including one or more input interfaces such as a keyboard one or more control buttons a camera a location sensor one or more microphones and or a touch sensitive overlay associated with a touchscreen display etc. flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more output interfaces such as a display one or more speakers or other output interfaces a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

One or more of the input interfaces may be configured for receiving user input to allow a user to interact with the electronic device . Such input interfaces may for example allow a user to interact with a graphical user interface provided on the electronic device . Instructions commands or other forms of input may be received by the electronic device via the input interfaces. For example the input interfaces may allow a user to interact with one or more interface elements displayed on a graphical user interface of the display .

Such input interfaces may take a variety of forms. For example any one or combination of the following input interfaces may be included on the electronic device and used for receiving user input a touchscreen display a control button a trackball or trackpad a keyboard a camera which may be used for example to detect gesture based input an orientation or acceleration sensor such as an accelerometer which may be used for example to detect gesture based input performed by moving the electronic device a microphone which may be used for example to detect voice based commands . It will be appreciated that the foregoing list of input interfaces is not exhaustive and that other input interfaces may be used instead of or in addition to any of the interfaces described above.

As noted previously the electronic device may include a touch sensitive display which may be referred to as a touchscreen or a touchscreen display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller. The touch sensitive input surface overlays the touchscreen display and may be referred to as a touch sensitive overlay. The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. That is the touchscreen display acts as both an input interface and an output interface .

The electronic device may include one or more cameras . The camera is configured to generate camera data such as images in the form of still photographs and or motion video. The camera data may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor not shown associated with the camera . More particularly the image sensor is configured to produce an electronic signal in dependence on received light. That is the image sensor converts an optical image into an electronic signal which may be output from the image sensor by way of one or more electrical connectors associated with the image sensor. The electronic signal represents electronic image data which may also be referred to as camera data .

The cameras may include a front facing camera a rear facing camera or both. A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on or near a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which the display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the front facing camera is directed. A rear facing camera is a camera which is located to obtain images of a subject near a rear face of the electronic device . The rear face is typically a face which does not include the main display of the electronic device . The rear face is in at least some embodiments located at a side of the electronic device which is opposite the side which includes the display . The rear facing camera may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing camera. The field of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

In some embodiments the electronic device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

In some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network.

In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device also includes a memory module which may be flash memory and a memory module interface . The memory module may be removable from the electronic device . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory module for use in the relevant wireless network. The memory module may be inserted in or connected to the memory module interface of the electronic device .

The electronic device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data may include service data having information required by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases or data stores each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory of the electronic device .

The data may include one or more content items . A content item may for example be a video such as for example an MPEG video WMV video AVI video etc. audio such as for example an MP3 audio file a WAV audio file a RealAudio audio file etc. a word processor document such as a Microsoft Word file etc. a spreadsheet such as a Microsoft Excel file an electronic book such as an e book in an EPUB MOBI or other file format a presentation such as a Microsoft PowerPoint presentation a Portable Document Format PDF document a note such as a text based note prepared using a note taking application or an image such as a raster vector or 3D graphic image including for example a JPEG file TIFF file etc. . In at least some embodiments the content items may include a content item that is text such as text that may be entered into a list. Other types of content items apart from those types listed above may also be stored in memory of the electronic device . Furthermore in at least some embodiments a content item may not be stored in permanent memory. For example in at least some embodiments a content item may be a document that a user is currently editing and that may not have yet been stored to a permanent storage location. Such documents may for example be stored in a temporary memory such as a cache.

The content items may have been received at the electronic device for example via one or more of the input interfaces . For example a video may be received from the camera and an audio component of such video may be received from the microphone . Similarly audio may be received from the microphone and an image may be received from the camera . Text based content items such as a word processor document spreadsheet presentation or note may be received for example via a keyboard which may be a physical keyboard associated with the electronic device or a virtual keyboard provided on a touchscreen display of the electronic device . Those of skill in the art will recognize that other means of receiving content are also possible.

As illustrated in a content item may be stored as an action item which may also be referred to as tasks or as an archive or in some embodiments as an unclassified content item . An archive is a content item which a user may not wish to act on or which may simply wish to use as a reference. That is an archive is a content item which may not be planned to be acted upon. More particularly no specific and definite action may for example be planned for the content item that is stored as an archive . The archived content item may simply be stored for access at an unspecified later date or time so that for example the user may recollect a feeling associated with or represented by the content item . Thus the archived content item may serve as a record or reminder of a feeling and does not serve as a record of a future action i.e. it does not serve as a reminder of an action that a user intends to perform .

By way of example personal photographs such as images captured of family friends or captured while on a vacation personal videos such as home videos of family friends a vacation etc. or personal audio files such as a voicemail message or other audio recording of a friend or family may serve as a record or reminder of a feeling or memory. Such content items may be stored as an archive to allow a user to later retrieve and view such content items for example to recollect the feeling or memory.

In contrast an action item may represent a content item that a user intends to act on. More particularly an action item is a content item for which a concrete defined action is planned. For example a content item classified as an action item may be content which a user intends to review e mail or follow up on. Accordingly an action item may be a record of an action that a user wishes to be reminded of. That is the action item may be a record of a future action i.e. an action that a user intends to perform in the future . More particularly the action item may serve as a record for a user to remind the user that an action is required.

By way of example an image captured of a product that a user wishes to research may represent a content item which may be stored as an action item . For example a user may capture an image or video of a product when they are at a store and may store the image or video as an action item when they intend to follow up on the image or video for example by performing research on the product when they have time and facilities to do so.

A content item stored as an action item may have one or more completion requirements associated therewith. The completion requirements specify one or more requirements for completing the action associated with the action item .

By way of example the completion requirements may specify timing information for completing the action represented by an action item . Such timing information may be referred to as a when completion requirement or timing completion requirement. For example the when completion requirement may specify a date or time period during which the action item is to be completed or when a reminder to complete the action item is to be generated. Such a date or time may be referred to as a due date or deadline.

By way of further example the completion requirements may specify a contact such as a person or business associated with the action item . The contact may for example be someone whose presence will be necessary or desirable for completion of the action represented by the action item . For example completion of the action may require discussions with the contact. Such a required contact may be referred to as a who completion requirement or contact completion requirement.

By way of further example the completion requirements may specify a location associated with the action item . The location may for example be a location where the action item is to be completed or where the action item may be completed or may be a location where the user wishes to be reminded of the action item . That is a location related to the action item may be specified such as a location at which the action item will become relevant . When such a location is specified in an action item the location may be referred to as a where completion requirement or a location completion requirement for that action item .

The electronic device may be configured to automatically generate a reminder based on one or more of the completion requirements . That is the completion requirements may act as reminder conditions and the electronic device may automatically generate reminders based on such information. For example a due date or deadline associated with an action item e.g. a when context item may used to trigger a reminder when the due date or deadline is expiring or when the due date or deadline is imminent.

Similarly when a completion requirement of an action item specifies a contact associated with the action item a reminder may be triggered by identifying possible interactions with that contact and by triggering a reminder when actual or possible interactions with that contact are identified.

Similarly when a completion requirement of an action item specifies a location associated with the action item a reminder may be triggered based on the location associated with the action item and also based on the current or future location of the electronic device and or its user . For example the reminder may be triggered when the electronic device or the user is determined to be close to the location associated with the action item or may be triggered when the user is planning on being close to the location.

Since the completion requirements may be used for generating reminders the completion requirements may also be referred to as reminder conditions.

The reminder generated by the electronic device based on the completion requirements may for example be a sensory based reminder such as an audible reminder provided on the speaker a visual reminder provided on the display or a vibratory reminder provided by a vibrator associated with the electronic device .

Accordingly a content item stored as an action item may differ from a content item stored as an archive in one or more of the following respects. In some embodiments an action item may specify completion requirements while an archive does not specify such completion requirements since no action is required to be completed with respect to the archive . Similarly in some embodiments reminders may be triggered based on action items but reminders may not be triggered based on archives . Similarly in some embodiments action items may have a concrete action associated therewith while archives have no concrete actions associated therewith. Action items may be stored so that an action is completed in the future based on the content item while archives may be stored simply to allow a user to access the content item in the future. In at least some embodiments an action item may also include information defining the nature of the action to be completed. For example the action item may specify what it is that the user is required to do in order to mark the action item as being completed.

As will be described in greater detail below in at least some embodiments action items and archives may differ in that it may be easier to delete an action item than an archive . That is archives may be considered by the electronic device to be more permanent than action items and therefore may be more difficult to remove from the electronic device . Accordingly in some embodiments the electronic device may apply a higher level deletion policy to archives and a lower level deletion policy to action items . A higher level deletion policy is a policy that makes deletion more difficult than a lower level deletion policy. For example a higher level deletion policy may require a greater number of steps to perform a deletion than a lower level deletion policy.

For example in some embodiments when a request to delete an action item is received the action item may be removed from memory or moved to a recycle bin but when a request to delete an archive is received a prompt may be displayed requesting confirmation of the deletion e.g. Are you sure you want to delete this item . For a content item that is an archive removal from memory or relocation to a recycle bin may only occur when confirmation of deletion is received in response to the prompt. By applying a higher level deletion policy to the archives and a relatively lower level deletion policy to the action items the electronic device may achieve a balance between efficiency and security from the effects of accidental deletion. In some embodiments archives may be made more difficult to delete than action items since archives may represent more treasured content.

In at least some embodiments action items may have a completion indicator and or progress indicator associated therewith. A completion indicator may be a flag that may be set to complete or incomplete to indicate whether the action associated with an action item has been completed. In some embodiments the completion indicator may have two possible values a first value represents a complete state and a second value represents an incomplete state. A progress indicator may allow greater precision in describing a status of an action item . For example a progress indicator may specify the degree to which the action has been completed e.g. it may be specified as a percentage such as 50 . In some embodiments the progress indicator may allow a text based status to be set to indicate the level of completion of the action associated with an action item . By way of example the progress indicator may be set to not started in progress waiting for feedback or done. 

In some embodiments action items and archives may include metadata . Metadata is data which describes and gives information about other data. More particularly metadata may describe and give context to a content item . For example the metadata may specify a title of the content item a folder or project associated with the content item or a time of creation of the content item which may be the time and date when the content item was captured stored or received . In at least some embodiments the metadata may specify people referred to or captured in the content item such as the name of a person who is the subject of an image video or text based document . In some embodiments the metadata may also specify a description of a location where the content item was created. For example the metadata may specify a city where an image was captured. Similarly in some embodiments the metadata may include a description of an event where the content item was created.

As will be described in greater detail below when is discussed the metadata may be received for example from a user via an input interface of the electronic device and or may be automatically generated by the electronic device .

In at least some embodiments the data may also include one or more content items that are unclassified content items . An unclassified content item is a content item which has not yet been classified as an archive or an action item . An unclassified content item may be a content item which a user has deferred classifying. For example an unclassified content item may be a content item which a user has not yet had time to classify. Since such content items have not yet been classified they may not yet have any completion requirements associated therewith. That is such content items are not yet associated with an action they do not act as or represent a task.

The unclassified content items may also include metadata . Such metadata may be of the type described above with reference to the action items and the archives and may be obtained in the manner described above and in greater detail below with reference to .

In at least some embodiments the electronic device may be configured to store content items in containers . A container may be an actual or virtual location in memory for storing similar content. A container may for example be a folder within a file structure provided in memory of the electronic device .

In some embodiments a container may group commonly classified content items . For example a first container which may also be referred to as an action item container may store action items . That is the first container may store content items that have been classified as action items . In some embodiments the first container may store all content items that have been classified as action items but may not store content items that have been classified as an archive since such items may be stored in a second container or content items that have not yet been classified since such items may be stored in a third container . While illustrates a first container that includes a single content item that has been classified as an action item the first container may store a plurality of content items . Thus the first container may represent a group of content items that are classified as action items .

Similarly in some embodiments a second container which may also be referred to as an archive container may store archives . That is the second container may store content items that have been classified as archives . In some embodiments the second container may store all content items that have been classified as an archive but may not store content items that are classified as an action item since such items may be stored in the first container or content items that have not yet been classified since such items may be stored in the third container . While illustrates a second container that includes a single content item that has been classified as an archive the second container may store a plurality of content items . Thus the second container may represent a group of content items that are classified as archives .

Similarly in some embodiments a third container which may also be referred to as an unclassified container may store unclassified content items . That is the third container may store content items that are awaiting classification. In some embodiments the third container may store all content items that have not yet been classified i.e. it may store all content items that are stored as unclassified content items . The third container does not store content items that have been classified. For example the third container does not store content items that have been classified as action items since such items may be stored in the first container or content items that have been classified as an archive since such items may be stored in a second container . While illustrates a third container that includes a single unclassified content item the third container may store a plurality of unclassified content items. Thus the third container may represent a group of content items that are unclassified content items .

By grouping content items according to their classification content items may easily be displayed or accessed along with other similarly classified content items. For example a list of content items stored in a specific container may be displayed. By way of example if input is received requesting the display of content items stored in the first container then the electronic device may display a list of content items stored in the first container e.g. the action items could be displayed in a list . Such a list would exclude content items not included in the first container . Similarly if input is received requesting the display of content items stored in the second container then the electronic device may display a list of content items stored in the second container i.e. the archives could be displayed in a list . Such a list would exclude content items not included in the second container . By way of further example if input is received requesting the display of content items stored in the third container then the electronic device may display a list of content items stored in the third container i.e. the unclassified content items could be displayed in a list . Such a list would exclude content items not included in the third container .

Other methods of grouping action items and or archives may be used in some embodiments. For example in one embodiment a group may be created that includes both action items and archives . For example a grocery list group may be created to include action items and archives that represent a list of grocery items. Archives included in the grocery list group may for example specify items that remain on the grocery list even after they are picked up. For example the archives in the grocery list group may represent items that a user picks up frequently such as perhaps bread milk etc. Action items included in the grocery list group may for example specify items that are not frequently picked up by the user for example ingredients in a specific recipe that a user wishes to prepare. The archives and the action items in the grocery list group may in at least one operating mode be displayed together in a type of grocery item list. In at least some embodiments action items may be displayed with a checkbox or other interface element that allows such action items to be marked as completed. In at least some embodiments archives may not be displayed with such a checkbox or interface element.

In some embodiments archives and action items may selectively be grouped into a project group. The project group may represent archives and action items that are related to a particular project. The action items may represent actions that require completion for the project and the archives may represent documents or other content that a user may wish to refer to regarding the project.

The grouping of archives and action items may in at least some embodiments be performed by a user. For example user input may be received via an input interface assigning an action item or archive to a specific group. In at least some embodiments such input may be received at the time of creating the action item or archive.

Methods for classifying content items as action items or archives methods for marking a content item as an unclassified content item and methods for using and accessing such content items will be discussed in greater detail below.

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port may enable a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by for example providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . This download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic for example through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to the host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network may automatically be routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network may automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device may include or be connectable to a power source. In the embodiment illustrated the power source is a battery such as a rechargeable battery that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery may provide electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface may provide a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface may be coupled to a regulator not shown which may provide power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

In some embodiments a short range communication subsystem may provide for communication between the electronic device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communication subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A location sensor may be configured to determine a geographic location of the electronic device . That is the location sensor may be configured to act as a positioning system to determine the location of the electronic device in space. In some embodiments the location sensor may be a global positioning system GPS sensor which is configured to determine a location using satellites. The location sensor may take other forms in other embodiments. For example the location sensor may determine location through triangulation by measuring the strength and direction of signals from two or more nearby cell phone towers.

A pre determined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to an operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystems . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

In some example embodiments the electronic device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the touchscreen display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input interfaces such as the touchscreen display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and may operate for example as a typical cellular telephone. The overall operation may be similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals may be output to the speaker and signals for transmission may be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions may be provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the touchscreen display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and software applications such as a content management application . Functions and features provided by the content management application will be described in greater detail below with reference to .

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may perform some or all of the functions of the content management application . In other example embodiments the functions or a portion of the functions of the content management application may be performed by one or more other applications. Further while the content management application has been illustrated as a single block the content management application may include a plurality of software modules. In at least some example embodiments these software modules may be divided among multiple applications. For example in at least some embodiments a different software application or module may be used for classifying content items than is used for accessing such content items. For example a first software application or module may be configured to perform one of the methods described below and a second software application or module may be configured to perform another one of the methods described below.

The electronic device may include a range of additional software applications including for example a notepad application a word processing application an image viewing and or editing application a calendar application an address book application a mapping application or a media player application such as a video player and or an audio player or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the touchscreen display according to the application. In at least some example embodiments the software applications may include pre determined gesture information defining functionalities associated with the pre determined gestures received via the touchscreen display . For example a software application may determine a finger swiping movement i.e. a pre determined gesture on the touchscreen display as a scrolling function.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

The following discussion will refer to example methods of storing a content item in accordance with a selected classification option. Reference will be made to various example display screens to facilitate understanding of the example methods. The methods may in at least some embodiments be performed by the content management application . More particularly the content management application and or another application stored in memory may contain processor executable instructions which when executed cause the processor of the electronic device to perform the methods described below. The processor readable instructions may be configured to cause the processor to generate one or more screens having the features described below.

Referring now to an example method of storing a content item in accordance with a selected classification option is illustrated. The features of the method will be discussed with reference to the example display screen of .

At a plurality of selectable content classification options for classifying a content item are displayed on a display associated with the electronic device .

The content item may be a content item of the type described above with reference to . For example the content item may be a video audio a word processor document a spreadsheet an electronic book a presentation a Portable Document Format PDF document a note or an image. The content item may be of another type not specifically described herein.

The displayed selectable content classification options may include a selectable option to classify the content item as an action item . The selectable option to classify the content item as an action item may be an option to create an action item based on the content item

The displayed selectable content classification options may also include a selectable option to classify the content item as an archive . The distinction between an action item and an archive is discussed in greater detail above with reference to .

Referring briefly to an example of a display screen that displays such selectable content classification options is illustrated. More particularly in the example illustrated the selectable option to classify the content item as an action item is displayed concurrently with the selectable option to classify the content item as an archive . That is these selectable options are displayed simultaneously.

Furthermore these selectable options both relate to the same content item and are provided within a common application e.g. in the example illustrated they are both provided within a content management application which is a camera application . Accordingly the selectable options allow a user to determine how a content item is to be treated. In this example a user is provided with the ability to treat the same content as either an action item or an archive .

Furthermore these selectable options may be provided on electronic devices having small displays such as for example handheld electronic devices. In the example illustrated the display screen is sized for use on a mobile communication device. However such selectable options may be provided on electronic devices having smaller displays than that illustrated. For example such selectable options could be provided on a wearable electronic device such as a watch.

In the example illustrated the content management application is a camera application. That is the content management application is an application that is configured to receive camera data from the camera . In the example embodiment illustrated such camera data may be displayed for example in a viewfinder . The viewfinder may show a field of view of the lens of the camera which may be used in framing and focusing the picture. The camera data may define the content item

It will be appreciated that the content management application may take other forms in other embodiments. For example the content management application may be any one or combination of a camera application a video recording application a notepad application a word processor application an electronic messaging application or an application of another type.

Referring again to at a selection of one of the content classification options is received. The selection may be received for example via an input interface associated with the electronic device . By way of example any one or combination of the following input interfaces may be used for receiving user input a touchscreen display a control button a trackball or trackpad a keyboard a camera which may be used for example to detect gesture based input an orientation or acceleration sensor such as an accelerometer which may be used for example to detect gesture based input performed by moving the electronic device a microphone which may be used for example to detect voice based commands . It will be appreciated that the foregoing list of input interfaces is not exhaustive and that other input interfaces may be used instead of or in addition to any of the interfaces described above.

The method may include at obtaining or receiving the content item associated with the request. In some embodiments such as those illustrated in the selection of a classification option may be received before the content item is created. That is the content item may be created shortly after the selection of a classification option is received. Accordingly in some embodiments the feature of obtaining the content item may be performed shorty after receiving at the selection of a content classification option .

In some embodiments the content item may be obtained and or created in response to receiving at the selection of the content classification option . For example in some embodiments in response to receiving a selection of the option to classify the content item as an action item or a selection of the option to classify the content item as an archive the electronic device may capture an image using a camera associated with the electronic device . That is the selectable content classification options may serve a dual purpose they may define how a content item is to be classified and they may also act as a shutter button to cause the content item to be captured. It will be appreciated that dual purpose selectable content classification options may be useful to save time i.e. rather than having to activate a shutter button and then classify the image a user may simply select a single selectable content classification option and to save space on the display i.e. rather than having to display a shutter button and selectable content classification options only the selectable content classification options are displayed .

In other embodiments the content item may be created before the selection of the selectable content classification option is received. That is the feature of obtaining the content item may be performed prior to the feature of receiving selection of a content classification option . For example when the content management application is a document creation application such as a word processing application a notepad application etc. the content item may be created such as through user input e.g. via a keyboard and after the content item is created the selectable content classification options may be displayed on the display .

After a selection of one of the content classification options is received at the electronic device may store the content item in accordance with the selected content classification option .

In at least some embodiments at the content item may be stored in a container that corresponds to the selected content classification option . For example if a selection of the option to classify the content item as an action item is received then the content item may be stored in a first container which may also be referred to as an action item container. Similarly if a selection of the option to classify the content item as an archive is received then the content item may be stored in a second container which may also be referred to as an archive container. These containers are described in greater detail in the discussion of above.

In at least some embodiments at an action item may be created based on the content item if the selectable option to classify the content item as an action item is selected.

Similarly at the content item may be stored as an archive if the selectable option to store the content item as an archive is selected. Action items and archives are described in greater detail in the discussion of .

Optionally in at least some embodiments at the content item may be stored together with metadata . The metadata may describe and give context to a content item. As noted above the metadata may specify a title of the content item a folder or project associated with the content item a time of creation of the content item people or things referred to or captured in the content item a description of a location where the content item was created and or a description of an event where the content item was created.

Accordingly in at least some embodiments the method may include at obtaining metadata. In some embodiments the metadata may be obtained from a user via an input interface of the electronic device . That is metadata may be received via user input. A user may be permitted to specify metadata to be associated with the content item. For example a user may input a description of an event where the content item was created e.g. using an input interface such as a keyboard .

In some embodiments some or all of the metadata may be automatically generated by the electronic device . Accordingly metadata may be obtained at by automatically generating metadata. For example metadata that specifies a time of creation of the content item may be automatically generated using the time specified by a clock associated with the electronic device when the content item was created. Similarly metadata that specifies a location of the content item may be generated based on a location obtained from a location sensor when the content item was created. Similarly metadata that describes an event may be automatically generated based on calendar data from a calendar if the calendar includes a calendar event having a time corresponding to the time when the content item was created. For example if a content item is created at a time when the calendar indicates that a user is attending an event the electronic device may determine that the content was created at the event described in the calendar and may populate the metadata describing the event based on the calendar event entry in the calendar. For example metadata describing the event may be populated based on the title of the calendar event entry in the calendar.

Similarly in at least some embodiments metadata specifying people referred to or captured in the content item such as the name of a person who is the subject of an image video or text based document may be automatically populated by performing a recognition algorithm on the content. For example when the content item is an image or video a facial recognition algorithm may be performed to compare persons represented in the image or video to a database of known persons. When a match is found the metadata may be populated to include identification information identifying the known person such as a name of the person.

As noted in the discussion of above in some embodiments action items may be associated with one or more completion requirements . The completion requirements specify one or more requirements for completing the action associated with the action item . As noted above action items may be associated with completion requirements while archives may not be associated with completion requirements . Accordingly in at least some embodiments completion requirements may be obtained for action items but not for archives .

An overview having been provided reference will now be made to which illustrates an example method of storing a content item in accordance with a selected classification option. The method may include a number of features that are described above with reference to the method of . Such features are generally indicated using common reference numerals and the description of such features will not be exhaustively repeated. The features of the method will be discussed with reference to the example display screen of .

At selectable content classification options may be displayed in the manner described above with reference to . At a selection of a content classification option is received as also described above with reference to . In at least some embodiments at a content item may be obtained in the manner described above with reference to .

In at least some embodiments at the electronic device may determine whether a selection of the option to classify the content item as an action item has been received. If selection of this option is received then the electronic device may at display a prompt on the display . The prompt may be a prompt requesting input of a completion requirement associated with the content item.

Referring briefly to a display screen is illustrated that allows for input of one or more completion requirements . More particularly the display screen acts as a prompt to request input of one or more completion requirements. In the embodiment illustrated the display screen includes a date prompt which prompts for input of a when completion requirement which may also be referred to as a due date or deadline . The when completion requirement may specify a date or time period during which the action item is to be completed or when a reminder to complete the action item is to be generated. Such a date or time may be referred to as a due date or deadline.

In some embodiments the content management application may allow a user to input imprecise timing information associated with the content item. Such imprecise timing information may specify an imprecise time period for completing the action item . For example the content management application may provide a graphical user interface that allows a user to select any one or combination of the following soon someday far off ASAP yesterday now . In at least some embodiments such imprecise terms may be associated with more precise time periods in memory for the purposes of generating reminders. That is imprecise timing information may be mapped to more precise timing information. By way of example soon may be mapped to a time period of one week so that after a week has elapsed a reminder is generated based on the action item .

In some embodiments more precise timing information may be input by a user. For example in some embodiments the content management application may provide a graphical user interface that allows a user to specify a precise time period such as for example one day two days one week one month etc. . In some embodiments the date prompt may allow a user to specify a calendar date which may be specified in terms of a day month and or year.

By way of further example the display screen includes a required contact prompt which prompts for input of a contact such as a person or business that is to be associated with the action item . The contact may be someone whose presence will be necessary or desirable for completion of the action represented by the action item . For example completion of the action may require discussions with the contact. Such a required contact may be referred to as a who completion requirement. In at least some embodiments the required contact prompt is linked to an address book associated with the electronic device allowing a user to select from the address book a contact who is to be associated with the content item.

In the example illustrated the display screen includes a required location prompt which prompts for input of a location associated with the action item. The location may for example be a location where the action item is to be completed or where the action item may be completed or may be a location where the user wishes to be reminded of the action item . That is a location related to the action item may be specified such as a location at which the action item will become relevant . When such a location is specified for an action item the location may be referred to as a where completion requirement for that action item .

By way of further example the display screen may also include a prompt requesting input of a description of the action required to complete the action item . For example a description may be selected from a list of default descriptions. In some embodiments a description may be input using a freeform text input field.

In the example display screen of after a user has input one or more completion requirements they may select a selectable option to confirm the completion requirements . That is the selectable option may be selected to advise the electronic device that the user has finished inputting completion requirements. The electronic device may receive confirmation that the user has completed entry of the completion requirements that are to be associated with the action item .

Referring again to if it is determined at that the option to classify the content item as action item has not been selected i.e. if the user has elected to classify the content item as an archive then the prompt for input of the completion requirements is not displayed i.e. is not performed and input of completion requirements is not received i.e. is not performed .

In some embodiments at metadata which is to be associated with the content item is obtained. Methods of obtaining such metadata are described in greater detail above with reference to .

At the content item may be stored in accordance with the selected classification option in the manner described above with reference to . In some embodiments at one or more completion requirements may be associated with the content item. That is if the option to classify the content as an action item was selected then the action item may associate the content item with received completion requirements . If the option to classify the content as an archive was selected i.e. if at the electronic device is storing the content item as an archive then the content item may be stored without any completion requirements being associated therewith. That is since an archive represents a content item for which no concrete action is planned there are no completion requirements for the archive .

In at least some embodiments at the electronic device may generate a reminder based on a completion requirement if any such completion requirement has been specified. Since no completion requirements are specified for archives no reminders are generated based on archives. However since completion requirements may be specified for action items reminders may be generated for action items.

For example a reminder condition may be based on a when completion requirement which identifies a deadline for completing the action item. In such embodiments a reminder may be triggered based on the deadline for example if the deadline expires and or if a deadline is approaching a reminder may be triggered. For example if the timing information specifies a time period for completing the action item then after the time period has elapsed if the action item is not marked completed a reminder may be triggered.

Similarly in some embodiments a reminder condition may be based on a who completion requirement. The who completion requirement may specify a contact such as a person known to the user of the electronic device who is to be involved in completing the action item. In such embodiments the content management application may trigger a reminder based on the who completion requirement by identifying possible interactions with that contact and by triggering a reminder when actual or possible interactions with that contact are identified.

Such interactions may be identified for example using a location sharing service. A location sharing service is a service which shares location information specifying a contact s current or future location. By way of example the location sharing service may be Foursquare . In at least some such embodiments the content management application may determine whether an interaction with the contact is possible or likely based on the location of the contact provided by the location sharing service. In at least some embodiments the content management application may determine whether the contact is close to the electronic device . This determination may be made for example by comparing a location of the electronic device which may be obtained from a location sensor such as a GPS sensor with the location of the contact as provided by the location sharing service. If the electronic device is determined to be sufficiently close to the contact then the reminder may be triggered.

The determination regarding whether the electronic device is sufficiently close to the contact may be made by comparing the distance between the electronic device and the contact s location to a threshold. This threshold need not be the same for all contacts. More specifically in some embodiments the threshold used will depend on established norms for the contact. For example if the contact is typically very far from the electronic device e.g. if the contact and the user of the device live and work in different cities than one another then the threshold may be higher than if the contact is typically relatively close to the electronic device . Accordingly the determination regarding whether the contact and the electronic device are sufficiently close to one another to trigger a reminder may be based on established norms. Using this technique a reminder for an action item associated with an out of town contact may be triggered when that contact is in town but a reminder for an action item associated with a co worker who works near the user of the electronic device may not be triggered when that co worker is in town. Instead for the co worker the threshold may be much smaller before the reminder is triggered.

In other embodiments instead of relying on a location sharing service to determine whether the contact is sufficiently close to the electronic device to trigger the reminder the content management application may rely on an address such as a home address or work address associated with the contact which is defined in a contact record for that contact. More specifically the electronic device may identify its own current position using the location sensor and may identify an address associated with the contact from a contact record for that contact. The electronic device may then identify a possible interaction based on the current position of the electronic device and the address. More specifically the content management application may determine whether the electronic device is currently sufficiently close to the address. This determination may be made for example by comparing the distance between the electronic device and the contact s address to a threshold. As noted above the threshold need not be the same for all contacts and may be based for example on established norms i.e. typical distances between the electronic device and the address . If the electronic device is determined to be sufficiently close to the address the reminder may be triggered.

In some embodiments the content management application may identify possible interactions with the contact by identifying planned travel to a region associated with the contact. For example the content management application may scan emails received at the electronic device and may identify emails which contain travel itinerary information. Such emails may for example specify hotel reservation information flight information or other types of reservation information. When travel is planned to a region associated with the contact such as a city where the contact resides then the reminder may be triggered.

In at least some embodiments the content management application may not itself scan emails to identify travel information. Instead the content management application may rely on another application such as Blackberry Travel which reviews such emails and which identifies trips and shares such information with the content management application .

In some embodiments the content management application may identify planned travel to a region associated with the contact by comparing a destination address input into a navigation application such as Google Maps or another mapping application which provides navigation functions to an address or location associated with the contact. For example when a user requests directions to a location which is near the contact s location or address then a reminder may be triggered.

Other techniques may be used to identify actual or possible interactions with the contact associated with the action item. For example in at least some embodiments the content management application may monitor a calendar and may identify a possible interaction with the contact if an appointment is scheduled with that contact. When such an appointment is identified a reminder may be triggered.

Similarly in at least some embodiments the content management application may monitor communications on the electronic device and may trigger the reminder if a communication with the contact associated with the action item is identified. For example when a phone call is placed to or received from the contact the reminder may be triggered. Where an email is being composed to the contact i.e. if the contact is listed as a recipient then the reminder may be triggered. If a text message is composed to the contact then the reminder may be triggered. If an instant messaging conversation is occurring with the contact then the reminder may be triggered.

In some embodiments a reminder condition which is used to trigger a reminder may be based on a where completion requirement which specifies a location associated with the action item . That is a reminder condition used to trigger a reminder may comprise a location associated with the action item. In at least some such embodiments a reminder may be triggered based on the location associated with the action item and also based on the current or future location of the electronic device and or its user . For example the reminder may be triggered when the electronic device or the user is determined to be close to the location associated with the action item or may be triggered when the user is planning on being close to the location.

The current or future location of the electronic device or the user may be determined according to any of the methods described above. More specifically a location sensor may be utilized or planned travel may be identified by scanning emails or by monitoring requests for directions in a navigation application. The determination as to whether the electronic device is currently or is expected to be close enough to the location associated with the action item to cause the reminder to be triggered may be made using one or more thresholds e.g. if the current or planned distance between the device and the location is less than a threshold then the reminder may be triggered . These thresholds may not be the same for all locations. More specifically in some embodiments the threshold required to trigger a location based reminder may be based on established norms. That is the threshold may depend on the typical distance between the electronic device or user and the location. In this way when a user travels to a faraway place the threshold may be larger than when they are in their hometown.

When the reminder is generated at a visual audible or vibratory reminder may be generated on the electronic device . For example the electronic device may display a display screen which identifies the action item which the user is being reminded of. In at least some embodiments a user may be permitted to mark the action item as completed or may be permitted to dismiss or snooze the reminder.

The reminder of the action item may provide access to the content item. For example the reminder may display the content item or may provide a link for accessing the content item.

In at least some embodiments the selectable content classification options displayed at of the methods of may include a selectable option to store the content item as an unclassified content item .

Referring now to an example of one such display screen is illustrated. The display screen includes features that are also illustrated in the display screen of . The discussion of these features will not be repeated. However like reference numerals have been used to indicate like features. For example the display screen includes a viewfinder a content item and a plurality of selectable content classification options . Much like the display screen of in the display screen of a selectable option to classify the content item as an action item and a selectable option to classify the content item as an archive are displayed. However unlike the display screen of the display screen includes a further content classification option . More particularly the display screen includes a selectable option to store the content item as an unclassified content item .

The selectable option to store the content item as an unclassified content item may be used to allow a user to defer classifying a content item. That is the selectable option may be used when a user does not yet wish to classify the content item as an archive or an action item . For example the selectable option may be used when a user has not yet determined whether they would like to classify the content item as an archive or an action item or when they do not have time to classify the content item as an archive or an action item.

The selectable option to store the content item as an unclassified content item may operate in a similar manner to the other selectable options . For example in some embodiments the selectable option have a dual purpose it may cause a content item to be obtained e.g. it may act as a shutter button and may also store the content item as an unclassified content item .

When the selectable option to store the content item as an unclassified content item is selected the content item is stored e.g. at of the methods of as an unclassified content item . Since the unclassified content item has not yet been classified as an action item it is stored without completion requirements .

In at least some embodiments when the selectable option to store the content item as an unclassified content item is selected the content item associated with the request is stored in a third container which may also be referred to as an unclassified container . As noted previously the third container may be a container that is reserved for storing content items that are awaiting classification. In some embodiments the third container may store all content items that have not yet been classified i.e. it may store all content items that are stored as unclassified content items .

In some embodiments such as the embodiment illustrated in unclassified content items may have metadata associated therewith. Such metadata may be of the type described above and the methods of obtaining such metadata may be the same as those described above with reference to of .

After a content item is stored a user may wish to access the content item. Example techniques and methods for accessing such content items will now be described.

Reference will first be made to the example display screen of . The example display screen may for example be displayed in response to the receipt of user input requesting that the content items be displayed.

In some embodiments content items may be selected and displayed based on their classification. For example an action item list may list action items . More particularly the action item list may include one or more content items which have been classified as action items . The action item list may exclude content items that have been classified as archives and may also exclude unclassified content items . The action item list may for example specify one or more completion requirements associated with an action item . The action item list may in some embodiments specify metadata associated with the action item.

Similarly an archive list may specify one or more archives . More particularly the archive list may include one or more content items that have been classified as archives . The archive list may exclude content items that have been classified as action items and may also exclude unclassified content items . The archive list may in some embodiments specify metadata associated with the archive .

Similarly an unclassified content item list may specify one or more unclassified content items . More particularly the unclassified content item list may include one or more content items that have not yet been classified. The unclassified content item list may exclude content items that have been classified as action items or archives . The unclassified content item list may in some embodiments specify metadata associated with the unclassified content items .

In at least some embodiments the electronic device may be configured to allow one or more of the lists to be filtered or searched. By way of example the display screen of includes a selectable filtering option for each of the lists. For example the selectable filtering option may allow for filtering or searching based on metadata and or completion requirements.

While the display screen illustrates an embodiment in which the lists are displayed on a common display screen in other embodiments each list may be displayed on a separate display screen. In yet other embodiments two of the lists illustrated in may be displayed on a common display screen.

In some embodiments content items displayed in the lists may be selectable. Selection of such content items may cause a further display screen to be displayed on the display . Such further display screens may display the content item and or may allow a user to manage such content items 

Referring first to an example of a display screen is illustrated. The display screen may be used for managing an action item .

The display screen displays the content item . The display screen also includes a selectable option to set a completion indicator and or progress indicator associated with the action item in the example embodiment this option is labelled Mark as Completed . A completion indicator may be a flag that may be set to complete or incomplete to indicate whether the action associated with an action item has been completed. Accordingly the completion indicator may have two possible values complete or incomplete. In contrast a progress indicator may allow greater precision in describing a status of an action item. For example a progress indicator may specify the degree to which the action has been completed e.g. it may be specified as a percentage such as 50 . In some embodiments the progress indicator may allow a text based status to be set to indicate the level of completion of the action associated with an action item . By way of example the progress indicator may be set to not started in progress waiting for feedback or done. 

The display screen also displays a selectable option to edit the action item . Selection of this option may allow a user to edit the content item or information associated with the content item such as metadata or a completion requirement associated therewith.

The display screen may also include a selectable option to share a content item . In the example illustrated the selectable option is a selectable command button labelled share. However the selectable option may take other forms. Selection of the selectable option to share the content item may engage a sharing framework associated with the electronic device which allows content to be shared.

The sharing framework in at least some embodiments may allow content to be shared in a number of different ways. That is the sharing framework may allow a number of different sharing services to be accessed to share the content item. For example the sharing framework may in at least some embodiments be configured to allow content to be shared with others via electronic mail e.g. send an email with the content item or a link to the content item . Other methods of sharing may also be provided by the sharing framework.

The display screen also includes a selectable option to delete the content item. Selection of the selectable option to delete the content item may cause the content item to be deleted in accordance with a deletion policy.

Referring now to an example of a further display screen is illustrated. The display screen may be used for managing an archive . The display screen of includes many features included in the display screen of . For example the display screen displays the content item includes a selectable option to edit the archived content item a selectable option to to share the archived content item and a selectable option to delete the archived content item.

However the display screen of does not include a selectable option to set a completion indicator and or progress indicator associated with the archived content item.

Furthermore in some embodiments the selectable option to delete the content item may operate differently for an archived content item than for an action item. For example when the electronic device receives a request to delete a content item it may apply different deletion policies for archives than for action items. For example if the content item is an archive a higher level deletion policy may be applied and if the content item is an action item then a lower level deletion policy may be applied.

A higher level deletion policy is a policy that may make deletion more difficult than a lower level deletion policy. For example a higher level deletion policy may require a greater number of steps to perform a deletion than a lower level deletion policy.

Referring now to an example of a further display screen is illustrated. The display screen may be used for managing an unclassified content item . The display screen of includes many features included in the display screen of . For example the display screen displays a content item includes a selectable option to edit the content item a selectable option to to share the content item and a selectable option to delete the content item.

However the display screen of does not include a selectable option to set a completion indicator and or progress indicator associated with the content item.

The display screen of further includes a selectable option to classify the content item . More particularly the selectable option may allow the content item to be classified for example as either an archive or as an action item .

It will be appreciated that the display screens may have options and features in addition to those described above and that one or more of the options or features described above may be omitted from one or more of the display screens in some embodiments.

While the present application is primarily described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present application is also directed to various apparatus such as an electronic device including a mobile communications device. The electronic device includes components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods which may be by way of hardware components such as the memory and or the processor software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable storage medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. For example a compute readable storage medium may include computer executable instructions for performing one or more of the methods described herein. It is understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium or computer readable storage medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu Ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various example embodiments presented above are merely examples. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

