---

title: Analyzing electrocardiograms
abstract: An electrocardiogram (ECG) analyzing system for analyzing electrocardiogram (ECG) signals, the system including: a computing device including: a transformer for transforming an ECG signal into a time-frequency representation over a plurality of frequencies over a period of time; a calculator for calculating a magnitude of the time-frequency representation; an analyzer for analyzing a degree of clustering of a plurality of low-magnitude values in the time-frequency representation; and a diagnosing system for diagnosing whether ventricular fibrillation is present based on the degree of clustering.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849386&OS=08849386&RS=08849386
owner: 
number: 08849386
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120702
---
Embodiments of this invention relate generally to electrocardiograms ECGs and more particularly to analyzing ECGs to diagnose ventricular fibrillation.

ECGs depict electrical activity of the heart over time. Electrical activity is detected by electrodes placed at different locations on the body. The 12 lead ECG is well known to those skilled in the art. Each lead depicts electrical activity along a distinct axis of the heart. Electrical activity in the heart stimulates contraction of the heart muscle resulting in a cycle of contraction and relaxation. The electrical activity associated with these contractions may be visualized with an ECG providing information about the activity of the heart muscle.

Referring to a schematic representation of one known contraction of a heart within normal limits is shown. A contraction of the heart with a normal sinus rhythm may result in generating a P wave a Q wave an R wave an S wave and a T wave . With respect to a cardiac rhythm a QRS complex represents a rapid contraction of the ventricles of the heart. A person skilled in the art will readily recognize these features and others of the normal sinus rhythm. A person skilled in the art will readily recognize that the heart within normal limits may exhibit many variations on the representation shown in and that a skilled diagnostician may be needed to distinguish these variations and what those variations represent.

Referring to a schematic representation of a known rhythm strip of an ECG of the heart within normal limits is shown. The known rhythm strip shows electrical activity of the heart over time. A series of ventricular contractions and relaxations may be seen on the known rhythm strip. Referring to a schematic representation of a known rhythm strip of the heart within normal limits is shown. A series of ventricular contractions and relaxations may be seen on the known rhythm strip. In comparison to the contractions shown in are less distinct but the relaxation between the contractions may be distinguished from the contractions . A person skilled in the art will readily recognize that the heart within normal limits may exhibit many variations on the representations shown in and that a skilled diagnostician may be needed to distinguish these variations and what those variations represent. Diagnosing a ventricular rhythm of the heart may be useful for deciding whether to provide emergency intervention to a person. Ventricular fibrillation VF is a leading cause of death in the developed world. The standard of care for VF is to initiate cardiopulmonary resuscitation CPR and when available attach an external defibrillator to deliver an electrical shock. An automated external defibrillator AED may be used to administer an electrical shock to the person. Prior to allowing the administration of the electrical shock the AED may require that VF be detected. Current AEDs may require cessation of CPR and a delay of up to twenty seconds in order to diagnose a ventricular rhythm. In the person requiring defibrillation the delay of up to twenty seconds may decrease the chance of resuming spontaneous circulation and lower the probability of neurologically intact survival.

Referring to a schematic representation of a known rhythm strip of an ECG of the heart with ventricular fibrillation is shown. In VF the ventricles contract in an uncoordinated fashion. The ventricles exhibit essentially continuous activity with different parts of the heart muscle depolarizing at different times and the ECG does not show distinct ventricular contractions or recognizable ventricular relaxations quiescent periods . Under the circumstance represented by the heart s ventricles may be contracting relatively continuously and the individual may be diagnosed as suffering from ventricular fibrillation VF .

A first aspect of the invention includes a system for analyzing electrocardiogram ECG signals the system comprising a computing device including a transformer for transforming an ECG signal into a time frequency representation over a plurality of frequencies over a period of time a calculator for calculating a magnitude of the time frequency representation an analyzer for analyzing a degree of clustering of a plurality of low magnitude values in the time frequency representation and a diagnosing system for diagnosing whether ventricular fibrillation is present based on the degree of clustering.

A second aspect of the invention includes a method for analyzing electrocardiogram ECG signals the method comprising transforming an ECG signal into a time frequency representation over a plurality of frequencies over a period of time calculating a magnitude of the time frequency representation analyzing a degree of clustering of a plurality of low magnitude values in the time frequency representation diagnosing whether ventricular fibrillation is present based on the degree of clustering.

A third aspect of the invention includes a computer program product comprising program code embodied in at least one computer readable storage medium which when executed enables a computing device to implement a method the method comprising transforming an ECG signal into a time frequency representation over a plurality of frequencies over a period of time calculating a magnitude of the time frequency representation analyzing a degree of clustering of a plurality of low magnitude values in the time frequency representation diagnosing whether ventricular fibrillation is present based on the degree of clustering.

It is noted that the drawings of the invention are not to scale. The drawings are intended to depict only typical aspects of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements between the drawings.

Referring to a block diagram of one embodiment of an electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system in accordance with the invention is shown. ECG analyzing system may include a receiving system a transformer a calculator a normalizer an analyzer a diagnosing system and a communicator . A computing device may include memory which makes computing device operable to perform steps described herein. As indicated in the receiving system the transformer the calculator the normalizer the analyzer the diagnosing system and the communicator may be optional components or modules in ECG analyzing system . Alternatively the receiving system the transformer the calculator the normalizer the analyzer the diagnosing system and the communicator may be part of an external system which may perform the functions described herein. Computing device is shown in communication with ECG device and or a user . ECG device is shown in communication with the user . User may be a human for example a programmer or operator and or a computerized system interacting with computing device and or ECG device .

Referring to a flow diagram of a method of analyzing ECGs in one embodiment of the invention is shown. As shown in at S receiving system may receive an ECG signal from ECG device . ECG signal may be provided by any ECG device . ECG device may include for example a defibrillator and an AED. At S transformer may transform the ECG signal into a time frequency representation over a plurality of frequencies over a period of time providing an estimate of a contribution of each of a plurality of frequencies to the overall signal at each point in time. Time frequency transforms that may be used include a short time Fourier transform a wavelet transform an approximation of a wavelet transform using a discrete Fourier transform and a chirplet transform.

For example the time frequency representation of the ECG signal may be calculated using the wavelet transform 

At S calculator may calculate a magnitude of the time frequency representation. The magnitude of the time frequency representation may be calculated as where k is usually 1 or 2. The result M a b may consist of real values even if the original time frequency representation included complex values.

Referring to A and A schematic representations of the magnitudes of time frequency representations associated with ECG rhythm strips shown in and respectively are shown. Light shades on the schematic represent high magnitudes dark shades represent low magnitudes. show the magnitudes of the time frequency representation of the ECG signal of a heart with an organized rhythm. shows the magnitudes of a time frequency representation of the ECG signal of a heart in ventricular fibrillation. In a series of peaks A B C are shown with spaces A B between every two successive peaks A B and B C each peak A B C representing the QRS complex of the contraction of the heart and each space A B representing the relaxation of the heart. show the peaks A B C and the spaces A B to be distinguishable in the 2 25 Hz range. In there is substantially no distinction of the series of peaks A B C A and substantially no spaces A B A discernable in the 2 25 Hz range. The number of low magnitude data points is less than in and the clusters of low magnitude data points are smaller in area. represents ventricular fibrillation.

At S normalizer may normalize the time frequency representation such that a total magnitude at each frequency is equalized 

Referring to B and B schematic representations of normalized time frequency representations associated with the ECG rhythm strips in and and the magnitudes of time frequency representations in A and A respectively are shown. and B show normalized time frequency representations associated with an ECG rhythm strip of a heart with organized rhythm. shows a normalized time frequency representation associated with an ECG rhythm strip of a heart in ventricular fibrillation.

At S analyzer may analyze a degree of clustering of low magnitude values in the time frequency representation. The analyzer may construct a histogram representing the magnitude at each frequency and each time point in the time frequency representation. Referring to and schematic representations of constructed histograms associated with the ECG rhythm strips in and the calculated magnitudes of the time frequency spectra in A and A and the normalized time frequency representation in B and B respectively are shown. show constructed histograms associated with ECG signals of hearts with organized rhythm. show a distinct peak as the magnitude approaches zero. shows a constructed histogram associated with an ECG rhythm strip of a heart in ventricular fibrillation. does not show a distinct peak as the magnitude approaches zero. The degree of clustering may be analyzed by summing the contents of the n lowest magnitude histogram bins where n is a predetermined bin count. Additionally or alternatively the degree of clustering may be analyzed by calculating the statistical entropy of the p lowest magnitude bins where p is a predetermined bin count. Additionally or alternatively the degree of clustering may be analyzed by calculating the extent to which low magnitude values are clustered along the time and frequency axes using methods that may include cluster analysis mathematical morphology analysis and watershed analysis.

At S diagnosing system may diagnose VF by comparing the degree of clustering to a predefined threshold. At S communicator may communicate to the user whether to deliver an electric shock. Alternatively communicator may communicate to the user that a shock is about to be delivered and then initiate a shock without further user input. Electric shock may be administered by the ECG device or a separate component may deliver the electric shock.

A person skilled in the art will readily recognize that user who is a first responder medical technician nurse doctor or any other trained individual may make decisions concerning starting resuming and ceasing cardiopulmonary resuscitation and may make decisions concerning whether or not to administer the electric shock. Any number of factors evaluated at the time of responding to person s health needs may affect the decision or decisions user makes.

Referring again to communications between user and computing device can be implemented using any solution such as an audio interface a graphical interface an application programming interface API and or the like. Furthermore communications can utilize any combination of public and or private networks. Computing device is shown including a processing component e.g. one or more processors a database memory an input output I O component e.g. one or more I O interfaces and or devices and a communications pathway . In one embodiment processing component executes program code such as ECG analyzing system which is at least partially embodied in memory . While executing program code processing component can process data which can result in reading and or writing the data to from database memory and or I O component for further processing. Communications pathway provides a communications link between each of the components in computing device . I O component can comprise one or more human I O devices or storage devices which enable user to interact with computing device and or one or more communications devices to enable user to communicate with computing device using any type of communications link. To this extent electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system can manage a set of interfaces e.g. audio interface graphical user interface s application program interface and or the like that enable human and or system interaction with electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system .

In any event computing device can comprise one or more general purpose computing articles of manufacture e.g. computing devices capable of executing program code installed thereon. As used herein it is understood that program code means any collection of instructions in any language code or notation that cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after any combination of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form and or c decompression. To this extent electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system can be embodied as any combination of system software and or application software. In any event the technical effect of computing device is to transform calculate analyze diagnose normalize and communicate as more fully described herein.

Further electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system can be implemented using a set of modules . In this case a module can enable computing device to perform a set of tasks used by electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system and can be separately developed and or implemented apart from other portions of electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system . Electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system may include modules which comprise a specific use machine hardware and or software. Regardless it is understood that two or more modules and or systems may share some all of their respective hardware and or software. Further it is understood that some of the functionality discussed herein may not be implemented or additional functionality may be included as part of computing device .

When computing device comprises multiple computing devices each computing device may have only a portion of ECG analyzing system embodied thereon e.g. one or more modules . However it is understood that computing device and electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system are only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform a process described herein. To this extent in other embodiments the functionality provided by computing device and electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system can be at least partially implemented by one or more computing devices that include any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware with or without program code. In each embodiment the hardware and program code if included can be created using standard engineering and programming techniques respectively.

Regardless when computing device includes multiple computing devices the computing devices can communicate over any type of communications link. Further while performing a process described herein computing device can communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. In either case the communications link can comprise any combination of various types of wired and or wireless links comprise any combination of one or more types of networks and or utilize any combination of various types of transmission techniques and protocols.

As discussed herein electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system enables computing device to transform calculate analyze diagnose normalize and communicate as more fully described herein. Electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system may include logic which may include the following functions receiving system transformer a calculator a normalizer an analyzer a diagnosing system and a communicator . In one embodiment electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system may include logic to perform the below stated functions. Structurally the logic may take any of a variety of forms such as a field programmable gate array FPGA a microprocessor a digital signal processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other specific use machine structure capable of carrying out the functions described herein. Logic may take any of a variety of forms such as software and or hardware. However for illustrative purposes electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system and logic included therein will be described herein as a specific use machine. As will be understood from the description while logic is illustrated as including each of the above stated functions not all of the functions are necessary according to the teachings of the invention as recited in the appended claims.

In one embodiment the invention provides a computer program product embodied in at least one computer readable storage medium which when executed enables a computing device e.g. computing device to transform calculate analyze diagnose normalize and communicate as more fully described herein. To this extent the computer readable storage medium includes program code such as electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system which implements some or all of a process described herein. It is understood that the term computer readable storage medium comprises one or more of any type of tangible medium of expression capable of embodying a copy of the program code e.g. a physical embodiment . For example the computer readable storage medium can comprise one or more portable storage articles of manufacture one or more memory storage components of a computing device paper and or the like. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

In another embodiment the invention provides a method of providing a copy of program code such as electrocardiogram ECG analyzing system which implements some or all of a process described herein. In this case a computing device can generate and transmit for reception at a second distinct location a set of data signals that has one or more of its characteristics set and or changed in such a manner as to encode a copy of the program code in the set of data signals. Similarly an embodiment of the invention provides a method of acquiring a copy of program code that implements some or all of a process described herein which includes a computing device receiving the set of data signals described herein and translating the set of data signals into a copy of the computer program embodied in at least one computer readable medium. In either case the set of data signals can be transmitted received using any type of communications link.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a method of generating a system for transforming calculating analyzing diagnosing normalizing and communicating as more fully described herein. In this case a computing device such as computing device can be obtained e.g. created maintained made available etc. and one or more modules for performing a process described herein can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computing device. To this extent the deployment can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing and or I O devices to the computing device and 3 incorporating and or modifying the computing device to enable it to perform a process described herein.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

