---

title: Sensitive information handling on a collaboration system
abstract: On a document collaboration system, such as a wiki, the content of postings to the collaboration system is monitored for sensitive information. Under some embodiments, when instances of such sensitive information are detected, an e-mail is sent to the user that posted the collaboration page posting. In other embodiments, a message is then sent to a person associated with the entity that indicates that the information placed on the collaboration page is confidential information or is related to an asset of the entity. In further embodiments, individual people are assigned responsibility for monitoring the use of certain instances of sensitive information on the collaboration system. Each user is only notified when the instances they are responsible for appear on a collaboration page. In other embodiments, if a collaboration page includes an instance of sensitive information, access to the collaboration page is changed such that fewer people can access the collaboration page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08656288&OS=08656288&RS=08656288
owner: Target Brands, Inc.
number: 08656288
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120227
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 940 742 filed Nov. 15 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 151 200 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in this application.

A collaboration application is an application that enables its users to manipulate add to edit etc. a body of substantive content most commonly organized into a collection of informative collaboration documents that are made remotely accessible to the community of users usually through a search interface.

One example of a collaboration application is a wiki application. A wiki application typically includes a dynamic collection of substantive information organized in the format of a collection of article type web pages hosted on a site maintained on a computer network. In most cases a user of the wiki application is able to selectively retrieve an article through a query process that involves a user submission of one or more search terms that are compared to key words associated with the articles. A typical article will contain hypertext links that can be navigated to other related sources of information including but not necessarily limited to other articles within the content of the wiki application.

In general users are allowed to make edits and additions to the content of the wiki application. Most if not all pages include a link to edit functionality. If a user desires to change the page he or she simply navigates the link e.g. thereby causing the wiki application to display a corresponding editing screen . When the user is finished editing they issue a submit command e.g. by pressing a submit button thereby publishing the changes to the content of the wiki application. In general users are allowed to edit the work of other authors in contrast to a web log where changes to material as originally posted are generally not allowed .

Users of a wiki application are also typically allowed to add new pages to the body of content. A new page can be linked by the page creator or by other users to existing pages. The creator and or other users can edit the content of a new page. Thus the content of a wiki application grows and adapts as the result of the collective editing and authorship efforts of the wiki application s community of users.

Some collaboration applications are publicly oriented. One example of this is the Wikipedia system which is an Internet based encyclopedia project operated by the Wikimedia Foundation a non profit organization see www.wikipedia.com . Other collaboration applications are not open to the general public. For example some companies operate a wiki application for example to create an internal knowledge base.

Because a large number of people make changes to a collaborative document problems can arise if a user adds offensive content to the document. Some collaborative document systems have filters that prevent the posting of content that includes offensive words. Other systems provide a report to an administrator to indicate any document postings that have included an offensive term.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

On a document collaboration system such as a wiki the content of postings to the collaboration system is monitored for sensitive information. Under some embodiments when such sensitive information is detected an e mail is sent to the user that posted the collaboration page posting. This e mail warns the user about the use of the information on the collaboration page. In other embodiments collaboration page postings are searched for information that an entity wishes to keep confidential or that represents an asset of the entity. A message is then sent to a person associated with the entity that indicates that the information placed on the collaboration page is confidential information or is related to an asset of the entity.

In further embodiments individual people are assigned responsibility for monitoring the use of certain instances of sensitive information on the collaboration system. Thus one user may be assigned one word while another user will be assigned a different word. Each user is only notified when the instances of sensitive information they are responsible for appear on a collaboration page thereby allowing efficient monitoring and consistent responses to uses of certain sensitive information on the collaboration pages.

In other embodiments an indication that a collaboration page has been changed is received and the change to the collaboration page is searched to determine if it includes sensitive information in a list of sensitive information. If a collaboration page includes an instance of sensitive information access to the collaboration page is changed such that fewer people can access the collaboration page.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

On a document collaboration system such as a wiki or knowledge management system embodiments described below track the content of postings to determine if the postings include sensitive information. Such postings can include new collaboration pages or revisions to existing collaboration pages. Under some embodiments when such sensitive information is detected an e mail is sent to the user that posted the collaboration page posting. This e mail warns the user about the use of the information on the collaboration page. By sending the message in a separate e mail the embodiments described below have more impact on a user than just sending a message within the collaboration application because such e mails are perceived as being part of a larger notification framework that is likely to involve an administrator or supervisor. As such users are typically better motivated by an e mail message to correct the posting to remove the sensitive information than if the user was simply warned within the collaboration application.

In other embodiments collaboration page postings are searched for information that an entity wishes to keep confidential or that represents an asset of the entity. A message is then sent to a person associated with the entity that indicates that the information placed on the collaboration page is confidential information or is related to an asset of the entity. Providing messages that a collaboration page posting includes confidential information allows action to be taken to prevent the unwanted disclosure of confidential information.

In further embodiments individual people are assigned responsibility for keeping particular instances of sensitive information from appearing on collaboration pages on a collaboration system or for ensuring that the instances of sensitive information are used properly on the collaboration pages. Thus one user may be assigned a word or phrase associated with a first confidential project while another user will be assigned a different word or phrase assigned with a second confidential project. Each user is only notified when the instances of sensitive information they are responsible for appear on a collaboration page thereby allowing efficient monitoring and consistent responses to uses of certain instances of sensitive information on the collaboration pages.

In other embodiments an indication that a collaboration page has been changed is received and the change to the collaboration page is searched to determine if it includes an instance of sensitive information in a list of sensitive information. If a collaboration page includes an instance of sensitive information access to the collaboration page is changed such that fewer people can access the collaboration page. This helps to reduce access to collaboration pages that have confidential or proprietary information stored on them while still allowing some access to the collaboration pages.

Within environment a plurality of users and are shown as interacting with a plurality of corresponding client computing devices and . An illustrative four users and client devices are shown in environment but an actual implementation is just as likely to include more or fewer. Each client computing device interacts across a network with a web server . Network can be public in nature e.g. the Internet etc. or more internally focused e.g. a corporate LAN a private WAN etc. .

Web server controls access to and communication with a collaboration application which has associated databases . Examples of collaboration application include a wiki application and a knowledge management application under some embodiments. Web server may comprise a single computing device or multiple computing devices and portions of collaboration application and or databases may be stored on a single computing device or may be distributed across several computing devices. The illustrated scenario is but an example configuration. Together collaboration application and databases form a collaboration system such as a wiki or a knowledge management system.

In one embodiment web server is a computing device responsible for serving web pages e.g. HTML documents via the HTTP protocol to client devices and . Collaboration application generates web pages passed by web server based on content stored for collaboration pages for example content stored for wiki pages or knowledge management documents in databases . Each of devices and includes a client application e.g. a web browser application that is able to parse the web pages provided by web server and to display the parsed documents. Client application is also able to collect textual input from the user and to send that input to collaboration application through web server . In addition client application is able to interpret certain actions by the user as requests to follow links embedded in the web pages and based on such requests is able to request further pages from collaboration application through web server . It should be noted that though the reference numeral has been assigned to represent the client application on all of client devices in actuality different client devices could operate different client device applications. The consolidation of the reference numeral is solely for the purpose of simplifying the diagram.

In one embodiment not by limitation collaboration application is implemented as a server side script that runs on web server with the content generally stored in database which illustratively includes a relational database management system. In another embodiment however a server file system associated with web server can be used for data management also or instead.

Accordingly in one embodiment web server collaboration application and database together enable each of users and to utilize client applications to read edit and write their own contributions to one or more collaboration documents . The users are illustratively able to include links to other pages in the set of collaboration pages external links to the Internet or an Intranet and incorporate other content in the form of text images audio video etc. The collaboration application manages the collaboration processes including the publication of the collaboration pages storage of revision information including the identity of the author who revised content the date and time the revision was made and the revisions that were made. The collaboration application also includes the ability to call external applications when certain events occur as noted further below.

In step of a revision poster user indicates that they wish to save a posting to a collaboration document using collaboration application . In network client application and client devices and are not shown for simplicity but should be understood to be present to provide communication between revision poster and collaboration application . Collaboration application stores the collaboration document on collaboration page s database at step . After saving the collaboration document collaboration application examines an extensions list that lists external applications that are to be called during a save operation. Under one embodiment extensions list is a text document that is altered by an administrator of the collaboration system. Extension list identifies detection filter application as an application to be invoked upon saving a change to a collaboration document. Based on its inclusion in extension list detection filter application is invoked by collaboration application . As part of invoking detection filter collaboration application passes the collaboration page ID that identifies the collaboration document that has been revised as well as the author ID that identifies revision poster . The collaboration page ID and author ID are shown as parameters in .

At step detection filter application retrieves a sensitive information and action database . Sensitive information and action database includes a list of instances of information that are considered sensitive for the collaboration documents. Sensitive information can include offensive words and phrases words and phrases that are considered confidential to an entity words and phrases that are considered proprietary to an entity and words and phrases that are associated with an asset of an entity for example. Such assets can include trade secrets trademarks patents development projects products under development joint ventures investments customers and financial information for example. Other examples of sensitive information include project identifiers locations names financial information charts filenames and important dates for example. The embodiments described herein may be practiced for any instance of sensitive information such as a word phrase project identifier location employee name financial information chart filename or important date for example.

Sensitive information and action database also includes one or more actions for each instance of sensitive information where each action represents a function that is to be performed if the instance of sensitive information is detected in a collaboration document. Each listed action can include a function name and parameters that are to be passed to the function to perform the action. Under one embodiment the sensitive information and actions listed in sensitive information and action database are set by an administrator . In other embodiments any user with authority to modify a collaboration page or post a new collaboration page may add an instance of sensitive information and action to sensitive information and action database .

At step detection filter application requests the content of the revised collaboration document from collaboration application . Under one embodiment detection filter application performs this request by invoking a robot . Robot uses the collaboration page ID and the author ID received by detection filter application and application programming interfaces in collaboration application to request the content of the revised collaboration document. Examples of APIs include APIs used to query collaboration pages databases for the posting and APIs for parsing the text of the posting.

At step detection filter application searches the content of the last posting for any instances of sensitive information in sensitive information and action database . If an instance of sensitive information from sensitive information and action database is found in the content of a posting the instance of sensitive information and its associated actions are loaded into a found information and actions array at step . At step detection filter application invokes applications on an action application server to take the actions in actions array . Examples of such actions are discussed below in connection with . For example such actions can include sending an e mail message to the revision poster changing a security access level for the collaboration document and sending a message to a user referred to as a specialist responsible for the sensitive information. Although the action applications are shown on a separate action application server in in other embodiments the action applications may be stored on web server or may each be stored on separate servers.

At step detection filter application sends a message to an administrator listing the instances of sensitive information that were found the actions that have been taken the identity of the revision poster and the collaboration page ID. Under one embodiment this message is sent using an e mail application . In other embodiments a different message application may be used to send the message to administrator . The message application may be an instant messaging application or a report application that generates a markup language page indicating which instances of sensitive information have been found and the actions that have been taken. In general administrator is responsible for maintaining the collaboration system and insuring that the collaboration documents in collaboration pages databases meet the standards set for such collaboration documents.

At step detection filter application places the detected sensitive information in e mail text explaining concerns about the information and suggesting removal of the information from the page or different usage of the information for example. At step detection filter application sends the e mail text and the e mail address of the revision poster to an e mail application such as e mail application on action application servers . E mail application then delivers the e mail to revision poster at step .

The action of sending an e mail to revision poster to indicate that their post contains sensitive information and explaining concerns about the information provides a heightened response to the inclusion of sensitive information in a collaboration document. In particular many users perceive the reception of an e mail outside of the collaboration application as an indication that the sensitive information has triggered a larger response than if a simple warning is provided by the collaboration application itself. In addition many users perceive the sending of an e mail as an indication that others at an entity have been informed that the revision poster posted a collaboration document that included sensitive information. This helps to entice the revision poster to remove the sensitive information from their posting or to correct the usage of the sensitive information in the posting as quickly as possible.

At step access restriction application increases the security level of the collaboration page to reduce access to the collaboration page if the security of the collaboration page is below the security level required for the sensitive information. Under some embodiments access restriction application increases the security level of the collaboration page by calling APIs of collaboration application to set a new security level for the collaboration page in collaboration pages database . This new security level is such that fewer users can access the collaboration page but at least one user is still able to access the collaboration page.

By increasing the security level of the collaboration page to reduce access to the collaboration page this embodiment reduces access to the sensitive information thereby helping to preserve the confidentiality or proprietary nature of the sensitive information while at the same time allowing some users access to the collaboration page so that the collaboration page can be further modified if desired to either remove the sensitive information or to alter the text referring to the sensitive information so that it meets standards set for the sensitive information. Once such corrections are made the security level of the collaboration page can be returned to its previous level so that more users may access the collaboration page. Note that changing the security level of the collaboration page is less severe than simply deleting the collaboration page posting. Changing the security level allows the content of the posting to be maintained so that all of the work associated with the posting is not lost simply because the posting included an instance of sensitive information.

In further embodiments an instance specialist is notified when a particular instance of sensitive information appears in a collaboration page. As shown in the flow diagram of in such embodiments an administrator such as administrator is assigned to be responsible for all collaboration pages on the collaboration system at step . In step a plurality of users are set as specialists who are assigned responsibility for monitoring use of respective instances of sensitive information such that each specialist is responsible for a different set of instances. For example one instance specialist may be associated with sensitive words associated with a first business project while a second specialist would be associated with sensitive words associated with a second business project. By assigning particular instances to particular instance specialists while also maintaining an administrator who has responsibility for all collaboration pages this embodiment lightens the work load for the administrator and provides more consistent responses to the use of sensitive information since the instance specialist will develop an expertise for handling the use of their assigned instances of sensitive information in collaboration pages.

When instance specialists are used one possible action that can be taken is shown in the flow diagram of . In a specialist who is responsible for monitoring the use of an instance of sensitive information is identified at step . Under one embodiment the instance specialist is identified using a parameter stored in the sensitive information and action database for the action for example. After identifying the specialist detection filter application sends a message to the specialist identifying the instance of sensitive information the collaboration page and the identity of the revision poster at step . The message may be sent using e mail application to send an e mail to instance specialist or the message may be sent using message application . Message application may include applications that form instant messages as well as applications that create reports that are then sent to the instance specialist or stored in a file that instance specialist can access.

The methods and components discussed above may be implemented using computing devices that execute computers executable instructions that are stored or encoded on computer readable media. For example web server action application server s and client devices and represent computing devices that execute computer executable instructions representing collaboration application API s diction filter application robot access restriction application e mail application message application and client application .

An example of a computing device that can be used as a server or client device is shown in the block diagram of . The computing device of includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples the system memory to the processing unit . System memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory ROM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the personal computer is stored in ROM .

Embodiments of the present invention can be applied in the context of computer systems other than personal computer . Other appropriate computer systems include handheld devices multi processor systems various consumer electronic devices mainframe computers and the like. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that embodiments can also be applied within computer systems wherein tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. communication utilizing Internet or web based software systems . For example program modules may be located in either local or remote memory storage devices or simultaneously in both local and remote memory storage devices. Similarly any storage of data associated with embodiments of the present invention may be accomplished utilizing either local or remote storage devices or simultaneously utilizing both local and remote storage devices.

Computer further includes a hard disc drive an external memory device and an optical disc drive . External memory device can include an external disc drive or solid state memory that may be attached to computer through an interface such as Universal Serial Bus interface which is connected to system bus . Optical disc drive can illustratively be utilized for reading data from or writing data to optical media such as a CD ROM disc . Hard disc drive and optical disc drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disc drive interface and an optical disc drive interface respectively. The drives and external memory devices and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage for the personal computer on which computer executable instructions and computer readable data structures may be stored. Other types of media that are readable by a computer may also be used in the exemplary operation environment.

A number of program modules may be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In particular application programs can include any of the applications robots or application interfaces discussed above and program data may include data stored in any of the databases or lists discussed above.

Input devices including a keyboard and a mouse are connected to system bus through an Input Output interface that is coupled to system bus . Monitor is connected to the system bus through a video adapter and provides graphical images to users. Other peripheral output devices e.g. speakers or printers could also be included but have not been illustrated.

The personal computer may operate in a network environment utilizing connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a server a router a peer device or other common network node. Remote computer may include many or all of the features and elements described in relation to personal computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such network environments are commonplace in the art.

The personal computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface . The personal computer is also connected to WAN and includes a modem for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the I O interface .

In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the personal computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . For example application programs may be stored utilizing memory storage device . In addition data associated with an application program such as data stored in the databases or lists described above may illustratively be stored within memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown in are exemplary and other means for establishing a communications link between the computers such as a wireless interface communications link may be used.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

While the invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

