---

title: System and method for maintaining on a handheld electronic device information that is substantially current and is readily available to a user
abstract: A system and method for managing data on a handheld electronic device is provided. A server periodically pushes data to a particular handheld electronic device, the data being stored on the handheld electronic device via a routine running in the background, such reception and storage being generally transparent to a user. The data can include data is desired by the user or that fits a profile or preference of the user. The profile can be predetermined and/or customized by the user and/or reflect a preference of the user. The data pushed to the handheld electronic device can also be related to a geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device. Such pushing of data and storage is managed by a routine running in the background of the handheld electronic device. The routine enables current data to be maintained on the handheld electronic device for ready access by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745131&OS=08745131&RS=08745131
owner: Blackberry Inc.
number: 08745131
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120803
---
The present application is a continuation of pending application Ser. No. 13 080 949 filed Apr. 6 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 620 063 filed Nov. 17 2009 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 931 268 filed Aug. 31 2004 issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 650 334 which in turn claims priority from U.S. provisional app. No. 60 575 458 filed May 28 2004 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates generally to handheld electronic devices and more particularly to a system and method of maintaining data on a handheld electronic device and making it easily available to a user.

Numerous types of handheld devices are known. Examples of such handheld devices include for instance personal data assistants PDAs handheld computers two way pagers cellular telephones and the like. Such handheld electronic devices are generally intended to be portable and thus are relatively small. Many handheld electronic devices also feature wireless communication capability although many such handheld electronic devices are stand alone devices that are functional without communication with other devices. With advances in technology handheld electronic devices are being configured to include greater number of features while having relatively smaller form factors.

Wireless communication between a server and a client such as a handheld electronic device can occur in numerous ways. One mode of communication can be referred to as a pull wherein the handheld electronic device transmits a signal requesting data and in response thereto a server transmits the desired data to the handheld electronic device. Another mode of communication can be referred to as a push wherein a server transmits data to a client such as a handheld electronic device without an express request from the client. The transmission of data in either of these fashions requires a certain amount of transmission time and significant quantities of data can require substantial amounts of time to communicate between the server and the client.

For those handheld electronic devices having a wireless communication capability it would be desirable to provide to a user data that is meaningful to a user or is desired by a user. It further would be desirable to provide such information to a user on a more or less instantaneous basis so that a user does not need to wait in order to obtain the data that is desired by the user. Such data preferably would be readily accessible to the user. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a system and method of providing on a handheld electronic device such data in such a readily accessible fashion.

An improved system and method for managing data on a handheld electronic device includes a server that periodically pushes data to a particular handheld electronic device with the data being stored on the handheld electronic device by way of a routine running in the background whereby such reception and storage is generally transparent to a user. The data can be any type of data and may be data that is desired by the user or that fits a profile or preference of the user. The profile can for instance be predetermined and or can be customized by the user and or can reflect a preference of the user. The data pushed to the handheld electronic device can also be related in some fashion to a geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device. Such pushing of data and storage is managed by a routine running in the background of the handheld electronic device. The routine enables current data to be maintained on the handheld electronic device for ready access by a user.

Accordingly an aspect of the invention is to provide an improved method for managing data on a handheld electronic device periodically pushing data to the handheld electronic device and storing the data on the handheld electronic device for ready access by a user.

Another aspect of the invention is to provide an improved method of managing data on a handheld electronic device by pushing to the handheld electronic device data that is meaningful or desirable to the user such as in a mobile context and by storing such data on the handheld electronic device.

Another aspect of the invention is to provide an improved method for managing data on a handheld electronic device by maintaining data stored on the handheld electronic device and by making the data readily accessible by a user such as even if the handheld electronic device is out of communication with a wireless communications network.

Another aspect of the invention is to provide an improved method for managing data on a handheld electronic device by periodically pushing data to the handheld electronic device in response to a predetermined event such as when the data changes and by storing the data on the handheld electronic device so that the handheld electronic device generally has available thereon the most up to date data even if the handheld electronic device is out of communication with a wireless communication network.

Another aspect of the device is to provide a method for managing data on a handheld electronic device wherein the type of data can be predetermined and or customized by a user and or is reflective of a preference of the user.

Another aspect of the invention is to provide an improved method of providing on a handheld electronic device data that is related to a geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device.

Another aspect of the invention is to provide an improved method of enabling an association based upon some type of relatedness of the client profile between a plurality of clients of a server or of a plurality of servers that are capable of communication with one another.

Accordingly an aspect of the invention is to provide an improved method of managing data on a handheld electronic device with the handheld electronic device including a wireless communication system a processor apparatus an input apparatus and an output apparatus the wireless communication system being adapted to enable wireless communication between the handheld electronic device and a server. The processor apparatus includes a processor and a memory the input apparatus having a plurality of input members and being adapted to provide input to the processor apparatus. The output apparatus is adapted to receive output signals from the processor apparatus and to provide output representative of the output signals. The handheld electronic device is identifiable to the server by a unique identifier. The general nature of the method can be stated as including making available to the server a profile associated with the handheld electronic device forming a first set of data employing the unique identifier to push from the server to the handheld electronic device a first signal representative at least in part of at least a portion of the first set of data storing on the handheld electronic device a second set of data derived at least in part from at least a portion of the first signal and employing at least a portion of the profile to configure at least a portion of at least one of the first set of data and the second set of data to comply at least in part with the profile. The method further includes responsive to a predetermined event altering at least a portion of the first set of data to form an updated first set of data employing the unique identifier to push from the server to the handheld electronic device a second signal representative at least in part of at least a portion of the updated first set of data storing on the handheld electronic device an updated second set of data derived at least in part from at least a portion of the second signal and employing at least a portion of the profile to configure at least a portion of at least one of the updated first set of data and the updated second set of data to comply at least in part with at least a portion of the profile.

An improved handheld electronic device in accordance with the invention is indicated generally in and is depicted schematically in . The exemplary handheld electronic device includes a housing upon which are disposed an input apparatus an output apparatus and a processor apparatus . The input apparatus includes a plurality of input members that can be said to include a plurality of keys a rotatable track wheel and an key . The keys include a plurality of alphanumeric keys and a special key .

The output apparatus includes a display . The output apparatus can additionally include for instance additional indicators such as lights and the like and can additionally include an audible output such as a speaker as well as other output devices.

The processor apparatus includes a processor that can be for instance and without limitation a microprocessor P and it is responsive to inputs from the input apparatus and provides output signals to the output apparatus . The processor apparatus further includes a memory that includes a number of routines stored thereon. As employed herein the expression a number of and variations thereof shall refer broadly to any nonzero quantity including a quantity of one. The processor interfaces with the memory and the routines are executable on the processor .

The routines include among other routines a foreground routine and a background routine . As a general matter the foreground routine is a routine that when active on the handheld electronic device is apparent to the user. For instance the foreground routine operates on input received from the input apparatus and provides output to the output apparatus . The background routine operates in a fashion that is generally transparent to the user. For instance the background routine may manage various activities that do not require input of the type that might be provided from the user through the input apparatus and generally do not require that an output be provided of the type that might be provided to the user through the output apparatus . It is understood however that the background routine may in some circumstances receive input and or provide output to a user without departing from the concept of the invention. As a general matter however the operation of the background routine is generally transparent to the user.

As can further be understood from the handheld electronic device is part of a communications system that includes in addition to the handheld electronic device a server and a communications network . The communications network is represented by the schematically depicted antenna and a connection with the server . The handheld electronic device includes a wireless communications system that enables wireless communication between the handheld electronic device and the communications network and ultimately the server .

As a general matter an exemplary flow of information on the system between the handheld electronic device and the server is depicted in . A first set of data is created for example on the server as at . While the data need not necessarily be stored on the server the data is at least identified to or available to the server for communication to the handheld electronic device .

Upon a detection of an occurrence of a predetermined event such as at the first set of data is pushed as at to the handheld electronic device using an appropriate signal and employing a unique identifier that uniquely identifies the handheld electronic device . The signal is representative at least in part of at least a portion of the first set of data and is transmitted from the server through the communications network to the wireless communication system of the handheld electronic device . The handheld electronic device includes a unique identifier that is known to the server and that uniquely identifies the handheld electronic device to the server . As a general matter the signal can be directed uniquely to the handheld electronic device by providing the unique identifier as a header in the signal i.e. as a header in the data transmission.

The aforementioned predetermined event can be any of a variety of events that might make it desirable for the first set of data to be transmitted to the handheld electronic device. For instance the predetermined event might be some type of change in the first set of data. The predetermined event potentially could also or alternatively be a change in some type of predetermined parameter either on the handheld electronic device the server or on another part of the system . The aforementioned predetermined events are exemplary only and it should be apparent that virtually any circumstance can be employed to trigger a push as at of the first set of data toward the handheld electronic device .

The signal sent from the server as at is received as at on the handheld electronic device by the wireless communication system . The wireless communication system can for instance recognize that the signal is intended for the operating system on the handheld electronic device and by way of further example the operating systems can determine that the signal is intended for the background routine . The operating system might then activate the background routine and transfer the signal to it for processing on the processor in the background of the handheld electronic device . The background routine then would store as at the contents of the signal as a second set of data that is stored in the memory of the handheld electronic device .

It thus can be seen that the signal received on the handheld electronic device from the server has been processed by the background routine in order to store the subject matter of the signal in the form of the second set of data that is stored in the memory of the handheld electronic device . Since the second set of data is resident in the memory of the handheld electronic device it can be readily accessed by a user. Moreover since the second set of data is resident on the handheld electronic device the handheld electronic device advantageously need not be in wireless communication with the communications network at the time the second set of data is accessed by the user. For instance this would enable a user to access data even if the user is outside the range of communication of the communications network . Since the second set of data was stored in the memory by the background routine the reception of the signal and the storage of the second set of data occurs substantially in a fashion transparent to the user meaning that the user likely was unaware that the reception of the signal and the storage of the second set of data occurred. Since the pushing of the first set of data in the form of the signal as at occurred in response to the occurrence of the predetermined event as at the transmission bandwidth and power consumption are maintained at a minimum.

The operation of the foreground routine and the background routine are depicted in further schematic detail in . As can be seen input is provided as at from the input apparatus and is directed to the foreground routine where processing occurs as at . The foreground routine then provides as at an output to the output apparatus . It is understood however that the depicted foreground routine is of an exemplary nature and need not require both inputs from the input apparatus as at and provide output to the output apparatus as at .

As was indicated at the numeral and as is similarly indicated at the numeral the signal is received by the wireless communication system . The content of the signal ultimately is processed by the background routine as is indicated at the numeral . The background routine stores as at and as was similarly indicated at the numeral the data in the form of a second set of data stored in the memory of the handheld electronic device .

Notably the foreground routine and the background routine can be operated in parallel i.e. substantially simultaneously on the processor apparatus . The operation of the foreground routine is apparent to the user and the operation of the background routine is generally transparent to the user although in certain circumstances it may be desirable to provide to the user an indication that storage of the second set of data has occurred as at and and the indication can be provided without departing from the concept of the invention.

As suggested above a profile can be associated with the handheld electronic device and can be made known to the server . Such a profile typically would be a profile of a user of the handheld electronic device . The profile can be a predetermined profile such as might indicate the particular set of data services that are provided as part of a data subscription to which the user may have subscribed. The profile could be customized such as for instance by being tailored by the user to request that certain types of data be provided in certain types of order for instance or it can be customized in numerous other fashions to suit the user. The profile also can include one or more preferences of the user such as may be derived from previous use by the user or that may be specified by the user as to the user s desires habits and the like.

The first set of data as at is typically determined at least in part by the profile of the handheld electronic device which will generally will be the profile of the user of the handheld electronic device and will be known to the server . Alternatively or additionally a geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device can be determined in numerous fashions and can be employed in determining at least in part the makeup of the first data set as at . By way of example a geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device can be determined on the handheld electronic device itself through the use of global positioning system GPS signals received on the handheld electronic device . Alternatively or in addition thereto the geographic disposition can be determined by the server and the communications network through triangulation of a signal received from a handheld electronic device at various antennae of the communications network . The geographic disposition i.e. location of the handheld electronic device can be obtained in other fashions without departing from the concept of the invention.

The assembling of the first set of data as at is depicted in greater detail in . By way of example a geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device can be obtained as at and as suggested above by determining the geographic disposition on the server or by having the geographic disposition transmitted to the server from the handheld electronic device . The profile associated with the handheld electronic device is also obtained such as at . The profile can be obtained either by having it already be known to the server or by providing it from the handheld electronic device or from some other source. As mentioned above the profile can be any collection of indicators or values that determine the types of information that are to be provided to a user or the layout of such information or other parameter.

Based upon the geographic disposition and the profile the server can assemble as at the various elements that will make up the first set of data. For instance the profile may dictate that certain data such as weather data restaurant location data and news be provided on the handheld electronic device . The geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device that was obtained at would be relevant to the weather and restaurant location information. Specifically the geographic disposition would have some relevance to weather because different areas of the world have different weather. The geographic disposition would be pertinent to the data regarding restaurant locations since a user might desire that only restaurants within a certain proximity to the geographic disposition be provided on the handheld electronic device . The geographic disposition likely would not have any pertinence to the news although this might not be the case if the user customizes the profile such that local news i.e. news local to the geographic disposition be provided on the handheld electronic device .

The profile obtained at likely would be pertinent to the weather the restaurant location and the news data that is provided to the handheld electronic device . Specifically the profile likely would determine the types of data that are provided i.e. weather data restaurant location data and news data. The profile might also indicate an order in which the data is to be presented and may include preferences for instance as to what is desired to be presented as higher priority data and the like. The server itself may serve or have available to it vast amounts of data. The various data can be filtered such as through the use of the geographic disposition and or the profile to assemble a set of data components that together make up the first set of data. In this regard and depending upon the specifics of the profile and the geographic disposition either or both of the profile and the geographic disposition may be irrelevant to certain of the data that is included in the first set of data.

A more particular indication of what happens to the first set of data is indicated generally in . Once the first set of data has been completely arranged as at and as was depicted generally in the system makes a determination as at as to whether or not the first set of data has undergone a change since the last time the first set of data was arranged. depicts the decision arrangement as being part of a continuous loop whereby the first set of data is continually being rearranged i.e. the various aspects of the profile and the geographic disposition are used to filter the data available to the server to provide a continually updated first set of data as at . In certain circumstances such as might occur at nighttime the first set of data may not change because the data and the matters affecting the data available to the server are in a static condition.

However if it is determined at that the first set of data has changed the updated first set of data is pushed as at to the handheld electronic device . Such an alteration of the first set of data such as was detected at could serve as the type of predetermined event such as is determined at which initiates a push of the updated first set of data as at and from the server to the handheld electronic device . In this regard therefore the first set of data such as would be associated with the server is intended to be always in an updated and current condition.

It is understood however that the updating operation can be triggered by any of a wide variety of predetermined events and can be tailored in numerous fashions. For instance the updating operation can be triggered in the event of any change in the first set of data or it could be triggered only after a certain degree of change in the first set of data. The updating operation can occur after the expiration of a certain period of time or in the event of any other trigger. It thus can be understood that the change in data depicted generally in as driving the updating process is exemplary only and it need not perform the updating function every time and it may not be required for such updating to occur.

Depending upon the geographic disposition and the profile substantial periods of time may elapse in which no change is actually made to the first set of data. However once the first set of data changes as may be detected at the updated first set of data is pushed as at to the handheld electronic device . By pushing the first set of data as at only upon the occurrence of the predetermined event such as the detection of a change in the first set of data or other predetermined event as at the transmission and reception bandwidth that are required on the handheld electronic device are maintained at a minimum while still maintaining current data on the handheld electronic device . Similarly the power required on the handheld electronic device can be minimized by providing a transmission of the signal representative of the first set of data only when the first set of data has been changed in a predetermined fashion or upon the occurrence of another predetermined event.

Other types of predetermined events will be apparent. For instance a predetermined event may be determined to have occurred if the geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device changes. Similarly a predetermined event may be the expiration of a certain period of time since the immediately prior transmission of updating data from the server to the handheld electronic device . Other types of predetermined events can be envisioned.

Further regarding a change in the first set of data if it is desired that news be part of the first set of data a new news story might result in a change of the first set of data thereby triggering an updating transmission to the handheld electronic device . Such updating potentially could be customized by the user and stored in the profile such as if a user desired to have information be updated only upon the occurrence of an event of national importance rather than an event of only local or of other perceived lesser degrees importance.

As can be understood from the foregoing therefore the system enables the handheld electronic device to have stored thereon a second set of data that is reflective of the first set of data available to the server with the second set of data generally always or at least desirably being in an updated condition. Such data is updated using a minimum of transmission reception bandwidth and with a minimum of power because the data is updated only when necessary such as upon the occurrence of a predetermined event.

It is understood that the handheld electronic device may not always receive each signal from the server such as when the handheld electronic device may be out of transmission range of the communications network . In such a circumstance however the second set of data will remain stored in the memory on the handheld electronic device and will remain accessible even though the handheld electronic device is out of radio contact with the communications network . In such a situation relatively current data will still remain available to the user on the handheld electronic device despite the absence of radio communication at that time.

The second set of data stored in the memory can be made readily available to the user through the use of the key . As is depicted in an actuation of the key can be detected as at . Responsive thereto the second set of data can be retrieved from the memory as at and can be output as at on the display .

The output provided as at can be for example in the form of a content page as is depicted on the display in . The content page can be in the form of for example a home page provided by the communications network and may be customizable by the user. In this regard the invention potentially could be in the nature of a content page that is periodically pushed to the handheld electronic device in certain circumstances for retrieval as needed by the user. The content page may constitute the entirely of the second set of data or the second set of data can include further data such as if the content page included one or more shortcuts that cause the retrieval from the memory of certain other data for output to the display . The content of the second set of data stored in the memory can be customized by the user or otherwise determined such as through the use of the profile.

It is noted that the periodic updates of the second set of data stored in the memory can either be in the nature of data that replaces outmoded data or as data that is stored in addition to the outmoded data. Likely an actuation of the key will retrieve from the memory the most current data and the handheld electronic device may be set up so that only the most current data is maintained or that outmoded data is retained for a certain period of time.

Another exemplary output to the display is depicted generally in . The display in is outputting to the user a content page that has been customized by the user. Specifically in the example of the user has customized the content output to provide the current temperature the current weather forecast and the time at which sunset will occur. The handheld electronic device can be set up such that the aforementioned information is automatically retrieved from the memory and is output to the display upon the detection of an actuation of the key .

Depending upon the content and the amount of data that is desired by the user to be maintained on the handheld electronic device an actuation of the key may additionally or alternatively output a number of channels that can be selected by the user for display of specific data. For instance and as in indicated generally in upon detection of an actuation of the key as at certain channel data may be retrieved from the memory and output as at to the display in the form of a plurality of shortcuts as is indicated generally in . The various shortcuts depict the various types of information that are stored on the handheld electronic device and that can be easily obtained.

Upon the detection as at of a selection of one of the displayed shortcuts the relevant data is retrieved as at from the memory and is output as at to the display . One of the shortcuts can be selected in any of a variety of fashions that will be apparent. For instance upon the output of the channel data as at to result in the shortcuts depicted generally at a selection of the shortcut RESTAURANTS may result in a retrieval of restaurant location data stored in the memory for output to the display such as might result in the output depicted generally in . It is also understood that the output depicted in could be obtained directly by an actuation of the key if the user desired that such restaurant data be immediately displayed and set up the handheld electronic device and or the profile to provide such an output.

As can be seen from three different restaurants are displayed. For example the user may have provided a preference for Chinese restaurants and Italian restaurants with the Chinese restaurants being favored. Such a preference may have been expressly provided by the user or may have been derived from previous behavior or habits of the user.

By way of further example the restaurants may be listed in order of proximity to the geographic disposition of the handheld electronic device . Furthermore and as is indicated generally in the listing may first provide all of the Chinese restaurants in order of their proximity with Italian restaurants being listed in order of proximity but after the listing of the Chinese restaurants.

The second set of data stored in the memory is of a very rich content and is highly personal to the user since the data is customizable and is provided according to the user s desires preferences and interests and the like. The exemplary output depicted generally in can be considered to be in the form of a content output that is directed by one or more preferences or interests of the user.

As can be further understood the various shortcuts depicted as being displayed in may reflect data that is stored on the handheld electronic device for immediate retrieval by a user. The shortcuts themselves are also of a very rich content and are highly personal to the user since the user likely would have determined that those channels of information i.e. data are desirable to the user. The highly personal and rich content of the data stored on the handheld electronic device increase the versatility of the handheld electronic device and increase the likelihood that a user will consult such data since the data is desired by the user and is stored directly on the handheld electronic device in order to enable substantially immediate retrieval without any delays for transmission of the data from a data source.

A user s profile can be used in other fashions. For instance the handheld electronic device may be only one of many clients that are wirelessly connectable with the communications network and the server or set of servers. For instance the handheld electronic device may be a first client with a given profile. A second client may have another profile that is particular to a second user who constitutes the second client . The server may determine that some type or similarity or other reason for association between the first client and the second client would be desirable. For instance both profiles may in some circumstance be the same. Alternatively or in addition thereto the profiles may indicate a complementary relationship such as if the first client were a seller of certain goods and the second client were a purchaser of such goods.

For example the server may invite both the first client and the second client to communicate with one another through the server . Such interaction can be suggested or provided by the server in numerous fashions and for various purposes according to various criteria.

The first client also can be provided with a listing of a set of other users i.e. clients that are available for instance within a given geographic proximity or that have a certain aspect in their user profile. The second set of data and the listing of the set of other users can be tailored to be updated for instance when any of the information changes such as if any of the users moved out of the geographic proximity and the like.

It thus can be seen that the system provides data that can be stored on the handheld electronic device with the data being current and readily accessible by a user without a delay for transmission of the data from a data source. The data can be customizable in all fashions by the user and is available even when out of radio communication with the communications network since the most current data was stored in the memory as of the last successful transmission of the signal between the communications network and the handheld electronic device . The second set of data stored in the memory of the handheld electronic device is highly personal to the user because it is reflective of the user s needs interests desires and preferences and therefore is highly useful to the user. Such usefulness to the user is greatly increased since the rich personalized data is immediately available to the user upon an actuation of the key and possibly also with the selection of a shortcut .

While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly the particular arrangements disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breadth of the claims appended and any and all equivalents thereof.

