---

title: Food movement and control within a container for food preparation
abstract: An apparatus and method for controlling the movement of a food product in a container is described. The apparatus can be cleanable, portable, and fully automated. It can include a main container for holding the food product and one or more other containers for holding a substance, such as liquid. The main container can be moved between the one or more other containers so that the food product is immersed in the substance (e.g., liquid) in the one or more other containers. Any of the containers can be heated to heat the food product. This movement of the main container can be used run fully automated cycles (e.g., sprouting, rinsing, soaking, cooking, cleaning, etc.) that do not require user interaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09445614&OS=09445614&RS=09445614
owner: LEGUPRO AB
number: 09445614
owner_city: Gothenburg
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20120817
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 524 767 filed Aug. 18 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 658 879 filed Jun. 12 2012 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

This invention pertains in general to a container for controlling movement of foods and more specifically to an apparatus for preparing and cooking food products using a moveable container.

While many kitchen tasks have been automated there are still some unmet needs that have long been a problem in the household food preparation cooking world. For example preparing and cooking dry beans is a notoriously laborious process that can requires hours if not days and includes many steps requiring the cook s presence. Dry unprocessed beans must often first be rinsed and then soaked in fresh liquid and the soaking can commonly take hours e.g. 4 to 8 hours or overnight soybeans may require soaking 12 hours or more . Commonly the soaking water is then drained and the beans are then cooked in fresh water often in a pot on the stove for e.g. 1 to 2 hours . Since salt can affect the cooking addition of salt can be at controlled times in the cooking process. Further some users prefer to first sprout the beans to increase the health benefit and nutritional value of beans. To sprout dry beans the cook typically lays the dry beans out in a container with enough water to keep them moist and carefully monitors the water level to avoid drying out or over soaking. Typically the beans sit for 3 or 4 days with temperature and lighting conditions monitored to ensure proper sprouting. Thus multiple labor intensive steps for cooking and or sprouting that require the user to return to the kitchen and take action all the while carefully managing the temperature and environment of the beans.

Currently there is no device that can perform all or even most of these sprouting preparation cooking steps in an automated fashion. Crock pots or slow cookers rice cookers and bread machines are popular kitchen appliances for having the ability to allow a user to insert the uncooked food in the pot early in the day and return to a fully cooked meal at the end of the day. Yet these machines cannot automatically prepare or cook foods that require movement into and out of fresh liquids or that otherwise require a controlled movement associated with liquids. While there are a few commercial cookers used by restaurants for cooking beans in large quantities none of these devices are helpful to the typical consumer in the average household who wishes to prepare a meal involving dry unprocessed beans or other cooking processes requiring fresh liquids e.g. they are too large heavy complicated labor intensive and or are not suitable for home use portable or easily cleanable with standard home washing equipment etc. .

An apparatus and method for controlling the movement of a food product in a container are disclosed. The apparatus can be cleanable portable and fully automated. It can include a main container for holding the food product and one or more other containers for holding a substance such as a liquid. The main container can be moved between the one or more other containers so that the food product is immersed in the substance in the other containers. Any of the containers can be heated to heat the food product. This movement of the main container can be used to run fully automated cycles e.g. sprouting rinsing soaking cooking cleaning etc. that do not require user interaction.

There are a number of embodiments of the apparatus and method. One example is an embodiment in which the apparatus is a portable and or consumer kitchen apparatus for preparing a food product. The apparatus comprises a first liquid container a second liquid container and a main container associated with the first liquid container and the second liquid container where the main container holds the food product. The apparatus also comprises a mover associated with the main container for controllably moving the food product between the first liquid container and the second liquid container. The apparatus further comprises a heater associated with the second liquid container for heating the food product when the food product is in the second liquid container and a controller in communication with the heater and the mover for controlling the heater and the mover. The controller can also be a control system and can include multiple controllers or controller parts that can be separate from one another. Additionally the apparatus comprises a sensor in communication with the controller that communicates to the controller when to control the mover to move the food product to the second liquid container. The sensor can be configured to automatically sense when to move the food product between the first liquid container and the second liquid container. The mover can be configured to move the food product between the first liquid container and the second liquid container responsive to a signal from the sensor.

Another example is an embodiment in which the method is an automated method for preparing a food product in a portable and or consumer kitchen apparatus. The method comprises receiving the food product into a main container of the apparatus and receiving one or more settings input by a user. The method also comprises moving at least a part of the main container into a first position inside a first liquid container wherein the food product enters the first liquid container by the moving of the main container into the first position. The method further comprises moving the main container into a second position wherein the food product enters the second liquid container by the moving of the main container into the second position and wherein the food product is immersed in a liquid by entering the second liquid container. In addition the method comprises heating the second liquid container wherein the heating of the second liquid container heats the liquid and the liquid heats the food product.

The features and advantages described in this disclosure and in the following detailed description are not all inclusive and particularly many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter resort to the claims being necessary to determine such inventive subject matter.

The figures depict embodiments of the invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Referring now to the invention in more detail in there is shown the apparatus with an outer container a main container a first liquid container a second liquid container among other components. The outer container is a chassis enclosure or other covering for various components of the apparatus including the main container . In brief summary the main container can be opened via the lid to allow the user to insert food inside such as dry beans the outer container can also be a steam resistant enclosure and or have a lid or other access method to allow the user to access the main container . The user adds fresh liquid e.g. clean water from a tap to the first liquid container and to the second liquid container . The main container is designed to move within the outer container to move food product contained in the main container into the first liquid container or from the first liquid container to the second liquid container . This movement can be used transfer food product to the first liquid container for a soaking process and then to a second liquid container for a cooking process in fresh liquid. In some embodiments there are two heaters though there can also be only one heater. In the embodiment of two heaters are illustrated. The first heater provides heat to the first liquid container and the second heater provides heat to the second liquid container . These heaters provide heat for cooking and other processes requiring heat. The components of the apparatus are each described in more detail below.

The outer container generally contains the components of the apparatus . The outer container can be made of various materials such as metal plastic silicone glass ceramic among others or a combination of these. The outer container can have the shape shown in but can also take a variety of other shapes.

The main container generally contains the food product for cooking etc. in the apparatus . The main container can be made of various materials such as metal plastic silicone glass ceramic among others or a combination of these. The main container can have the shape shown in but can also take a variety of other shapes. The main container can be designed to be a basket or other perforated container with a variety of openings through which liquid can drain. In this manner the main container and the food product it contains can be dunked in liquid in the liquid containers and then removed from the liquid. The liquid that entered the main container while it was in containers can drain through the basket or openings. The openings in the main container can be designed so that they allow liquid to pass through without allowing larger particles e.g. particles of food product to pass through. In one embodiment all or a portion of the main container is a mesh sieve grid or other filter that can prevent passage of most food particles while allowing the passage of liquid. In one embodiment the openings prevent passage of food particles above a certain size or to retain solid particles of the food product of a pre determined diameter along a shortest axis of the particles. In another embodiment the openings prevent larger substantially whole food particles from passing but allow smaller solid waste material such as small stones or grit sand and other impurities to pass through to achieve retention of food with elimination of waste material.

The openings in the main container can be sized according to use of the apparatus . For example the openings can be e.g. 0.01 0.45 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 mm in diameter cross section or larger or smaller or values in between or ranges including any of these values as appropriate. In some cases smaller openings or filtration may be appropriate for example for retaining particles above 0.5 1 2 5 6 10 20 30 40 50 75 100 200 or 500 microns or larger or smaller or values in between or ranges including any of these values . Openings may be a mixture of sizes and or shapes. In some embodiments openings may be small towards the bottom of the container and larger towards the top vice versa or other asymmetrical arrangements to facilitate draining without food loss. In some embodiments the openings are on the bottom side top or all of the surfaces of the main container . In addition the main container can include one or more opening covers that can be used to close or open the openings to allow liquid not to pass or to pass depending on desired usage.

The material used for the main container can be a thermally conductive material for conduction of heat to the food product and or liquid inside the container . In some embodiments all or part of the main container includes one or more surface treatments or coatings such as a non stick coating for easy removal of food product inside and easy cleaning. The main container can also be removable or detachable from the apparatus for separate cleaning or to be used as a serving container to be set on a tabletop or counter for serving the food product. The main container may also be foldable collapsible or flexible for example to allow the container to provide a larger size while filled with liquid but a smaller size after draining or for reducing size in pre determined steps during movement of the main container for example during transfer between containers such as a first and second liquid container. Similarly the main container can be a larger size when inside the liquid containers but can be collapsed squeezed down made flexible such as a distortable bag or malleable container that is smaller in one sub region for squeezing through an opening or reduced in size during movement between the liquid containers to save space in the apparatus. The main container may also be disposable such as a paper plastic or fiber basket or filter. In addition the main container can be a bag for holding the food. In such embodiments the liquid containers might be connected to each other via a chute or slide and the food bag can be slid along this slide from one liquid container to the other thereby saving the space in the apparatus that would be required to move a full basket of food from one container to another. The food bag can be grabbed by pinchers hooked or otherwise captured or connected to a mechanism for dragging the bag between containers.

The outer container and or main container can further be designed to resist pressure and temperatures in the range of 5 10 15 20 25 30 psi or more over the existing atmospheric pressure. At 15 psi 107 kPa pressure boost relative to sea level atmospheric pressure for example water boils at 122 C. 252 F. and cooking times are reduced up to 70 while preserving nutrients and coloration of food to be cooked. The outer container and or main container can also be designed to resist the escape of liquids and of gases other than through a gas outlet or other gas release mechanism in one or both containers . One or both of the containers can include an openable and closable lid or other cover. The lid can include a seal to prevent undesired fluid escape. The lid can be a lock top lid hinged lid possibly with lock or latch or other design. In some embodiments the outer container is a stand or other body that that connects and holds up containers without actually covering or fully covering any of them.

The outer container and main container can also be designed in various sizes. The size dimensions can include the largest dimensions for example width height length or diameter of 75 cm 60 cm 50 cm 40 cm 30 cm 20 cm 15 cm 10 cm 5 cm or larger or smaller or values in between or ranges including any of these values as appropriate. The main container can be designed to hold a specified amount of content such as 2 cups 4 cups 8 cups 10 cups 15 cups 20 cups 30 cups or larger or smaller as appropriate. It can be designed to hold a specified number of servings of food including 1 2 3 4 5 6 8 10 15 20 30 or more or fewer servings or values in between or ranges including any of these values as appropriate. In some cases the main container can simultaneously hold a specified amount of food product e.g. at least one portion such as 50 mL and a specified amount of liquid e.g. 3 5 times the amount of food such as 150 250 mL or more . In some embodiments the first liquid container second liquid container and main container have a maximum volume of at least 0.5 1 2 3 or 4 liters and in some cases the volumes are less than 10 liters. In many cases food product will expand when soaked. For example beans may expand to 2 3 times their original weight or size when soaked so the amount of soaking water can be controlled correspondingly e.g. from 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 or 6 times the amount of dry beans or ingredients or values in between or ranges including any of these values . The main container can also include markings for measuring an appropriate amount of food product and or liquid to add to the container. In many embodiments the main container sizing will be increased by an appropriate amount to allow for measurement error to contain overflow etc. for example 1 2 4 5 10 20 50 100 or other percentage or fixed size e.g. a fixed size of the specified larger than the mentioned sizes larger than the maximum recommended fill level for food and liquid contents.

Inside the main container is a food product to be exposed to a liquid in the first liquid container and or second liquid container . The food product can be any type of food product that might require preparation and or cooking such as rice beans cereals grains vegetables potatoes fruits salt preserved or dried foods among others. In some embodiments the food product includes only solid food products where the solid food product cooked in the main container is consumed by a user. The liquid s can be any type of liquid s that might be used in the preparation and or cooking of the food product such as water juice oils sauces batters coatings among others. The food product can be immersed in the liquid of a liquid container and that liquid can thereby be at various levels relative to the food product depending on the process being conducted by the apparatus . For example where the food product is beans the liquid can be at a lower level e.g. not covering any of the beans or only covering some of the beans for sprouting though the liquid may be at a higher level e.g. covering most or all of the beans during soaking or cooking in some cases in a different liquid container.

In one embodiment in which a 450 g one pound bag of dry beans equals about 6 8 portions of cooked beans e.g. 3 4 cans of beans water will cover the beans by about 5 cm which for 450 500 g of dry beans corresponds to a maximum of 12 dL of water depending on container shape . The same measurements apply for cooking water as with soaking water for beans e.g. 12 dL cooking water . For rinsing of the beans before or after soaking or cooking or rinsing of the main container about 6 dL of water can be used. These measurements produce approximately 6 8 portions of cooked beans. For convenient sizing in some embodiments the first liquid container holds about 3 L the main container holds about 2 L and the second liquid container holds about 3 L. In some embodiments for the simplest design the user can use the same amount of water no matter what type of food product and how much of the food is added. The simplest approach is to soak and cook in the maximum amount of water to remove the need to measure out specific amounts of soaking and cooking water. In some embodiments temperature measurement is performed only for safety to prevent boiling off all water burning etc. . By adjusting the size and power of the one or more heating elements e.g. heaters to create a long term simmer for the maximum amount of water and food the need for cooking regulation of temperature is removed. The apparatus can also include a temperature controller e.g. included in or separate from controller configured to maintain the temperature inside the first or second liquid containers or main container such that the temperature is greater than or equal to 100 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments the apparatus is configured for rinsing the food product with liquid before soaking cooking. For example some embodiments can provide a possibly separate extra liquid container where immersion and optionally agitation or repeated dunking of the food product achieves rinsing. In other embodiments the user rinses the food product and the apparatus is configured to heat the food product when initially started in order to dry it.

The first liquid container holds liquid in which the food product will be placed for the first part of the preparation process e.g. for a sprouting rinsing or soaking process for example . The first liquid container can be made of various materials such as metal plastic silicone glass ceramic among others or a combination of these. The first liquid container can have the shape shown in but can also take a variety of other shapes. The first liquid container is sometimes larger than the main container so that the main container can be at least partially immersed or fully submerged in the liquid contained in the first liquid container . Thus the food product in the main container can be immersed or submerged in the liquid.

The second liquid container holds the liquid in which the food product will be placed for the second part of the preparation process e.g. for a soaking or cooking process for example . The second liquid container can be made of various materials such as metal plastic silicone glass ceramic among others or a combination of these. The second liquid container can have the shape shown in but can also take a variety of other shapes. The second liquid container is sometimes larger than the main container so that the main container can be at least partially immersed or fully submerged in the liquid contained in the second liquid container . Thus the food product in the main container can be immersed or submerged in the liquid. In some embodiments the first and second liquid containers are spatially disjoint and the mover is configured to move the main container from the first liquid container to the second liquid container .

More than two liquid containers can also be included in the apparatus . For example there could be a third fourth etc. liquid container. For example there could be one liquid container for sprouting one for rinsing one for soaking one for cooking etc. The apparatus can include any one or more of these. In addition while certain containers are referred to as liquid containers throughout these containers can contain liquids solids gasses mixtures or distinct layers of these can be empty etc.

The containers can be designed to hold any sort of liquid including water juice oils sauces among others. One or both of the containers can contain fresh liquid e.g. fresh water from the tap or other water source for soaking cooking cleaning etc. which will become used liquid once it is used for preparing the food product or is put into contact with the food. In some embodiments one or both of the containers are removable from or detachably connected to the apparatus . As one example both containers might be removable for cleaning and also to be filled with fresh liquid that can then be used to prepare the food product. The user can fill one or both containers according to instructions for different meals based on markings inside the containers etc. In some embodiments one or both of the containers are connected directly to a water source e.g. a water faucet or home water pipe and are connected directly to a water disposal e.g. a kitchen drain or hose a kitchen pipe resting in a sink attached to a temporary container or removable bottle etc. .

One or both of the liquid containers can be positioned in various ways relative to the outer container and main container . The containers can be separate as shown in or they can be a single container with a division between them or two otherwise connected containers.

One or more heaters can be included in the apparatus such as heaters and shown in . There can be one heater for each of the liquid containers . Similarly a single heater can be used to heat both containers. In addition the heater s can be attached or associated with the main container . While the heaters are shown beneath the main container they can otherwise be positioned inside the outer container relative to the main container or liquid containers . For example they can be positioned above surrounding or to the side of the main container or liquid containers and do not have to be directly in contact with or attached to the main container or liquid containers . The apparatus can be connected to a power source via wires. The apparatus can be designed to work with 220V 50 Hz or 110V 60 Hz batteries gas or other power sources. In some embodiments indirect or inductive heating is used. In some embodiments a heater may be able to lower temperature such as a chiller that lowers the liquid temperature to more rapidly cool or freeze a food product. One or both heaters can be configured to heat liquid contained in the liquid containers to near boiling.

The apparatus further includes a mover for moving the main container . The mover in the embodiment of includes a rotating arm and can also include a motor or other mechanism for powering the movement. The motor provides a force to that moves the mover and causes movement of the food product from the first liquid container to the second liquid container . In some embodiments the motor is a linear actuator e.g. with a traveling nut spring piston etc. . Where the mover includes a linear actuator the linear actuator can lift the main container in a vertical direction while in some cases keeping the main container in a substantially horizontally fixed location. In some embodiments the movement of the main container from the first liquid container to the second liquid container comprises a spatial translation of the main container where the spatial translation is larger than a radius of the main container .

The rotating arm of the mover connects to the main container in some manner such as at the top of main container as is shown in . As shown in the main container can move along a path of movement in one direction and a path of movement in another direction. This movement can be created by moving rotating arm from one side to the other. The main container can move to a first position where the main container is resting inside or partially inside the first liquid container . If the main container is moved along path of movement it can eventually reach a second position where the main container is resting inside or partially inside the second liquid container . In this manner the main container and food product contained within can be placed in the liquid inside container and then in the liquid inside container . For example where the food product is dry beans the dry beans in the main container can be placed in fresh water inside the first liquid container in position for soaking the beans and then the main container can be moved to position in the second liquid container into fresh water for cooking the beans. In some embodiments rotating arm is actually two or more arms on either side of the main container designed so that the container can swing between the arms during rotation from one side to the other. In some embodiments the rotating arm is configured to rotate in a conic section having a horizontal axis. In some embodiments the arm is curved semi circular circular jointed flexible bendable geared with multiple or no axels axes a slot a track a guide along a path of motion and or in other shapes or dynamic in structure sufficient for moving the main container between liquid containers.

The main container can also be moved to one or more positions near or between positions and . A third position is shown in which can be a loading and unloading position for the main container . This position can be easily accessible to the user for filling the main container with the food product. In some embodiments the main container can be removed or snapped into and out of the apparatus for loading uncooked food product and unloading cooked food product. The main container can also act as a food product serving dish. In some embodiments the main container includes a basket or other container inside the main container that is removable by the user for easy loading and unloading of food product. A fourth position and fifth position are also illustrated. These can be draining positions in which the main container stops just outside and above the liquid containers after being immersed in the liquid to allow excess liquid to drain from the main container . These draining locations can be spatially disjoint from the first and second liquid containers . Once drained the main container can continue along its path of movement . In some embodiments there is an additional one or more positions at which spices are added to the main container or to the liquid containers or these one or more spice adding positions can be one of the first second third fourth or fifth positions already described.

In some embodiments the path of movement can include a track or other system along which the main container moves. For example this could include a ratchet system that allows the main container to ratchet along one or more notches along the paths . There can be a notch for one or more of the positions to allow the main container to stop easily at each of those positions without consuming a lot of energy to hold the main container at that position for a period of time. For example the main container could rest in on a notch in a ratchet system at the fourth and fifth positions to allow the main container to rest in those positions to drain excess liquid without consuming much energy to hold the main container there. A switch reversible ratchet such as used in standard socket wrenches may be used in some embodiments. illustrates just one example of a mover design though a variety of other designs can also be used including any design that allows the food product to be moved from one liquid area to another liquid area. Some additional mover examples are provided below in .

In some embodiments here using the apparatus as one example but applicable to most all embodiments described in this application the invention comprises an enclosure and includes a gas outlet e.g. on the outer container and or main container that allows gas to exit from the apparatus to avoid pressure build up or prevent excessive steam build up. Such an outlet can also keep gas inside the apparatus to speed up the cooking process. The gas exiting the apparatus may be steam created from the heating of the liquid in the main container . The gas outlet can be designed to be openable or closeable by the user by a controller via the pressure of the gas via gravity etc. In other embodiments the apparatus is designed to trap the steam or gas to retain the liquids and heat in the apparatus . For example the apparatus can include an insulating layer surrounding at least one of the main container the first liquid container and the second liquid container and the insulating layer can help to retain heat and lower apparatus s energy consumption. A moveable or flexible partition between areas containing different liquid containers may regulate gas e.g. steam cooler air crossing between them.

In some embodiments the apparatus includes a mechanism for depositing liquid on the food product. For example this can be a single nozzle or multi nozzle sprayer mister liquid atomizer or other means to evenly or directionally distribute spray mist and or otherwise control the form of the liquid and location within the main container first and or second liquid containers where the liquid is delivered. Such a liquid deposition mechanism can be designed to facilitate cleaning of the surface s of one or more containers to facilitate sprouting self cleaning to reduce or control foam distribution of the food to minimize splashing of the materials already in the container and or to maintain a controlled temperature environment in the main chamber by regulating the rate of liquid delivery in conjunction with heating or cooling of the chamber etc. Liquid can also be delivered from multiple locations at a controlled rate and or through one or more nozzles.

In further embodiments the apparatus includes an air pump fan or passive opening air circulator to allow for or regulate the circulation of air within the apparatus . The air circulator can be used to circulate air e.g. hot or cool stale or fresh air into or out of the apparatus. The air circulator can be integrated with the outer container or main container e.g. in the lid of container or or otherwise positioned in or associated with the apparatus . Seals may be arranged prevent free circulation of air between the main container and the outside atmosphere. Hence the contents of the main container may be substantially isolated from the outside atmosphere. However controlled circulation or inlet of fresh air may be achieved by the use of an air circulator.

The apparatus can further include a display which can take various forms or locations. The display could be placed on the top bottom side nearby but by with wired wireless or network communication etc. and there could also be multiple displays. The user can then enter various types of information into the display unit. For example the user can enter information about the type of food product beans rice vegetables etc. and the specific kind of that food product e.g. black beans pinto beans etc. . In some embodiments the user can enter one or more additional details including the amount of food product e.g. pounds ounces etc. or a level of food product e.g. marked by visible physical markings inside the main container or an amount of food product added e.g. cup 1 2 3 4 or 5 cups etc. . The user can also enter timing data such as when the food should be ready when it was added when the user will be home to check on it etc. In some embodiments the user can further enter different preparation or cooking cycles recipes e.g. sprouting soaking cooking warming etc. by applying a recipe to automate the corresponding process . The display unit can include a keypad web server touchpad WiFi or network connection with software API voice control unit mouse touch sensitive screen or other mechanism for user manipulation and a window screen etc. for display to the user.

In some embodiments the apparatus also includes a control box that can be located in various locations in the apparatus and can be a microcontroller or other control mechanism that controls various components of the apparatus and that can interact with the display and or with sensors in the apparatus where such sensors are included. The controller can control heating draining liquid immersion and spice addition to the main container . The controller can be configured for user customized cooking programs for cooking various types of foods. The controller can also regulate immersion in liquids in the first and second liquid containers and to control the heater s for soaking and cooking of the food product.

Where the apparatus includes sensors these can be a variety of different sensor types that can be located in various positions. The sensors can be sensors of variety of types including temperature sensors weight sensors pressure sensors optic sensors liquid level sensors liquid flow sensors ultrasonic sensors infrared sensors edibility or cooking status sensors ECS sensors scales or weight sensors piezoelectric sensors clocks or time sensors including timers infrared IR sensors barcode sensors RFID sensors pH sensors conductance or capacitance sensors liquid or atmospheric pressure sensors imaging sensors cameras providing an image of the inside of the main container mechanical sensors to determine the viscosity or resistance to stirring in the main container voltage or current or energy usage sensors chemical or odor sensors or combinations of these or other sensors or others. In some embodiments the sensor is a timer for communicating to the controller to move the main container after a pre determined period of time including at a pre determined time.

In some embodiments one or more recipes are stored on a computer readable storage medium e.g. a flash memory RAM ROM disks etc. that stores instructions e.g. computer program instructions that can be executed by a computer processor for operating the apparatus according to the recipe. Thus there can be recipes for preparing different food products e.g. beans rice etc. or different types of food products e.g. black beans pinto beans and so forth. The recipe can specify the appropriate temperatures lengths of time quantities of food product or liquid etc. and the device can operate according to the directions specified in the recipe. In some embodiments a recipe can be stored mechanically for example as a set of pre determined mechanical actions that will occur in response to a series of actions of one or more timers sensors switches etc. As one example the recipe can specify the temperature of the second liquid container by providing the instructions to the controller wherein the controller applies the instructions to determine a desired temperature of the second liquid container and for controlling the heater to heat the second liquid container to a specified temperature. The recipe can also specify the timing for placing and removing the main container into and out of the first and second liquid containers or the duration in which the main container should sit in or be in contact with containers . In some embodiments the apparatus includes one or more recipe codes comprising instructions for operating or controlling the operation of or by the controller to cook a different type of food product. The recipe codes comprise one or more recipes for cooking different types of beans. In some embodiments the recipe codes comprise a sub recipe for degassing beans.

The apparatus can also include one or more spice hatches e.g. seasonings containers embodiments of which are also illustrated in . The spice hatch es are one or more cups chambers repositories or seasonings holders where liquid or dry seasonings or other reagents spices can be added and then released into the main container or into one of the liquid containers . Spice hatch includes one or more spice hatches and spice hatch can include one or more spice hatches. In some embodiments only spice hatch es or spice hatch es are included in the apparatus but not both. In other embodiments additional spice hatches are included in the same or different locations in the apparatus . Similarly spice hatch es can be positioned elsewhere in the apparatus .

Spice hatch es can be in the lid of the main container though they could also be located in other places within the main container liquid containers or in the outer container etc. In some embodiments one or more of the spice hatches are associated with the main container such as in the lid of the container . The user can access the spice hatch es by opening the lid of the main container and by opening the lid s of the spice hatch es to insert spices into the spice hatch es . The release of spices into the main container can occur by simply opening the lid s on the spice hatch es once the lid of the main container is closed to expose the spice hatch es contents to the main container . In some embodiments opening a mechanical hatch flap door or lid can drop or slide the seasonings into the main container e.g. a trap door mechanism . A seal can also be included on the lid s of the spice hatch es that seals the spices inside the spice hatch es . A lid retainer such as a latch hook pull spring or other standard mechanical method can hold the lid of one or more spice hatches in place to trap the spices inside the corresponding hatches. The spice hatches can be fully or partially removable for loading and cleaning.

A spice release control can control the opening of the lid retainer for one or more spice hatch es which allow the contents of one or more spice hatches to be released into the inside of the main container . Various different control mechanisms can be used. For example spice hatches can be opened by means of an permanent magnet or electromagnet that does not require a physical connection to the inside of the main container and which can be activated to release the lid of the spice hatch. In general such a spring magnet mechanism a motor a slider a valve and many other means well known in the appliance arts can be used to implement the spice release control. In some cases spice hatches have lids that open at a pre determined temperature or pressure.

Spice hatches can be designed such that opening a hatch to the main container allows appropriate transfer of seasonings into the main container . For example steam or steam condensation could be enough to dissolve liquefy melt or solvate seasonings and thereby allow them to flow into the main container . Similarly seasonings can be formulated such that they are solid or viscous at room temperature and humidity but liquefy or gasify on exposure to the main container and thereby flow or release into the main container . A spice hatch s lid isolates the seasonings from the main container environment and keeps the seasonings ready for use until the appropriate point in the cooking process for spice addition to the food product. Salt for example could be placed in one of the spice hatches and added late in the final cooking step to facilitate full flavor when cooking food products like beans in order to achieve desired flavor without causing tough skins on the beans. Chili and hot spices that the operator wanted to penetrate vegetables or beans could be added to a second of the spice hatches and then controllably exposed to the main container earlier in the cooking process to soak them deeply into the food. Baking soda or BEANO could be added to a third one of the spice hatches and then exposed to the main container during a pre rinse soak step to neutralize flatulence inducing nutrients and yet be substantially eliminated in a rinsing cycle. Hydrophobic coatings and other easy cleaning materials may be applied to the spice hatch to keep charged or hydrophilic materials from sticking to the spice hatch.

In some cases the spices added to one or more spice hatches are contained in a pre filled canister packet or single use container or spice package that can be used to add a pre determined mixture of seasonings. For example in some embodiments the seasoning package is sealed prior to use and is punctured by the apparatus to allow fluid flow into and out of the package to transport the seasonings into the main container. In some cases the seasonings are delivered by controllably flowing liquid through the spice hatch at the desired time or in recipe conditions when the time is right to add some or all of the spices to the main container . Commonly spice packages having pre mixed liquids or seasonings can be added to a main container by the flow of a carrier liquid such as water to flush them into the main container from a pre prepared reagent container. Reagents such as salt or salt water baking powder or baking powder infused water vinegar and other reagents known to aide in food preparation can be kept separately from the main cooking or rinsing water. The spices used can be liquid paste powder infusible materials like tea coffee saffron or bay leaves etc.

More than one spice hatch can be included in the apparatus . The various spice hatches can be independently controllable for releasing different spices at different points in the cooking process or to contain seasonings that need different types of containers for practical handling reasons e.g. dry spices that mix poorly with liquid seasoning oils . Multiple magnets or mechanical controllers can be included that allow the hatches to be opened or closed independently e.g. by controlling the opening and or closing of lids of the spice hatches. In some cases one or more seals can be used to provide a liquid solid or gas tight seal. In some embodiments the sensors can be used to sense some or all of the following the presence or level or type of seasonings present in the spice hatches the rate of inflow of liquid or outflow of liquid or seasonings the freshness expiration date or vendor of the seasonings or seasonings container to confirm if an inner or outer lid is open or closed partially or fully to determine if the seasonings or seasonings package present is in accordance with a recipe to be performed by the invention or to determine a recipe to be performed based on a machine readable label e.g. a RFID tag signature barcode data matrix code semacode data glyph code tag other machine readable label or other measurement of the seasonings or seasonings package etc.

The mover in the embodiment includes a rotation axel a control and motors and though more or fewer components can be included. The outer basket wraps around and or is otherwise moveably connected to the rotation axel . The rotation axel can act as both a linear actuator and a rotation axel. In some embodiments it is a threaded pole. In some embodiments a piston is used. Some embodiments include a sloped slot and pin or partially threaded groove assembly in the control causing a fixed degree of rotation to the outer basket each time the actuator raises the basket to a sufficient level to engage the control mechanism. In some cases a rotational drive mechanism similar to a Yankee drill or push drill is used. One or both of the motors allow the movement of the outer basket up the rotation axel to remove the outer basket and inner basket from the liquid container . The baskets can rest above the liquid container for a period of time that allows liquid to drain from the baskets . Then the baskets can move up the rotation axel via rotation of the rotation axel . One or both of the motors can cause rotation of the rotation axel which causes the baskets to move upward along the rotation axel . The baskets can move upward to the top of the pole to just above the liquid container or to some point in between. This movement can be controlled by control which can control rotation of the rotation axel along rotation path . At some point after the baskets have at least cleared the liquid container the baskets can be rotated around the rotation axel by one or both motors controlled by control until the baskets are aligned above the liquid container . In some embodiments control enables the baskets to lift vertically while simultaneously applying a rotational force that still allows the rotational axel to rotate when the baskets have not yet freed rotational obstructions e.g. the liquid container . The baskets can thus rotate once they are free of obstructions e.g. baskets try to rotate until they clear the liquid container then they start rotating but this does not bind up or jam the rotational axis during the time that the baskets are not yet free to rotate . In some embodiments a slip clutch ratchet or frictional rotation mechanism is used. In some embodiments part or all of the control is located between the rotation axel and the outer basket near the motor or in other locations. After rotation away from liquid container the baskets can then be lowered into the liquid container so that the food inside the inner basket can be immersed or submerged in the fresh liquid of liquid container . Some of the many possible locations for one or more spice hatches are shown in spice hatches are described in more detail elsewhere in this application. In other embodiments the control allows the basket to lift vertically with little or no rotation until the basket s are free to rotate and then allow the baskets to rotate into position for lowering over the liquid container. In some embodiments all or part of the controller will be located at or near the contact between the outer basket and the rotation axel . illustrates a top view of a lift and rotate apparatus according to one or more embodiment s of the invention. illustrates the inner basket inside the outer basket which are both within or partially within the first liquid container . also illustrations the rotation axel about which the baskets will rotate and translate to move to the second liquid container . The counter weight is also illustrated at the side of the second liquid container which will provide balancing of the outer basket while holding the inner basket. The outer container generally surrounds partially or completely these components of apparatus . In some embodiments baskets are within one of the liquid containers but only partially within above or partially above or in other locations. For example the outer basket may be above the liquid container but it positions the inner basket so that part of the inner basket may be contained in the first liquid container for immersion or full submersion in fluids in the liquid container or container .

Once engaged the mover can move upward to lift the inner basket out of the liquid container . In some embodiments a motor inside the apparatus moves the mover up and down via a lift . In one embodiment a rod of the lift slides up and down within an opening in the apparatus to move the mover vertically up and down. When the base of the basket is out of the container the mover can swing or rotate around rotational axel toward the second liquid container to move the basket toward the container through a path of motion . Once the basket is above the second liquid container the mover can move the basket down into the container . The can be done for example by sliding the rod of lift downward into the opening in the apparatus to lower the arm which is holding the basket . In some embodiments the mover continues to move downward even after the basket has reached the bottom of the container and is resting on the bottom. The mover can disengage the basket by continuing this downward motion after the basket has reached the bottom. In some embodiments the mover disengages by sliding horizontally away from the basket e.g. toward the container . In some embodiments the mover returns to a resting position such as the center position shown for arm in .

In some embodiments the horizontal motion of the mover can be an arc e.g. as illustrated in path of movement or in other horizontal motions e.g. alternate path of movement for example to minimize the footprint of the apparatus while keeping the baskets over the apparatus to catch drips. In some such cases this will be achieved by moving the arm in a way that includes rotation translation conic sections and other types of linear and curved motion as described throughout. In one example the arm can rotate while also shortening itself by e.g. retracting or moving parallel to the length of the arm so that the basket while being rotated is also effectively moved in a compressed arc or straight line. In some cases the arm rotates but the basket has a different motion for example rotating to an alternate preferred position or remaining unrotated with a fixed orientation. In some such cases a bearing pivot motor or other rotational coupling will allow the basket to stay in a relatively fixed rotational position or in a constrained horizontal or vertical path while moving. Some embodiments constrain basket motion by incorporating a track rail outer container or other impediment to rotation or motion of the basket relative to the apparatus or containers and or . In some cases the outer basket engagement point is not fixed relative to the mover. For example the outer basket may slide along the arm rotating and or sliding freely and or in a controlled manner powered or unpowered. In some cases sliding or other motion of the outer basket allows the outer basket to remain over the apparatus while a mover such as the arm moves the basket. In some embodiments the mover contains joints and in some cases such joints allow the mover to use rotational motion to move a lifted basket while keeping the basket over the apparatus e.g. as illustrated in path of motion or a foreshortened path between an arc and line

Combininations of any or all mentioned movements control mechanisms and or basket handling mechanisms as well as any others known in the arts are taught. For example some portion such as the first or last portion of vertical ascent or descent or of rotation twisting moving past the intended position of a basket e.g. prior to or past the initial or final position or any other movement of the mover can be sufficient to engage or disengage a basket e.g. by connecting via a pocket catch hook depression pin magnet or other mechanism for attaching or detaching the mover from the basket. Different motions can be used for different steps or different iterations of the same step. For example one type of motion can be used to engage and another to disengage a basket. Note that engage and or disengage are understood to mean any change in association with the mover and that others are possible including changing the state of the attachment mechanism. In many cases engage or disengage for example can mean to change to a state necessary but not sufficient for release or attachment without subsequent steps not completely releasing or attaching rotating or otherwise repositioning the basket with respect to the mover etc. In some cases the mover will include a rod cable pull electromagnetic switch or motor or electro mechanical actuator that is activated to engage or disengage the basket. In some embodiments the engaging or disengaging of the basket will only be possible at certain pre determined positions such as by a pin switch circuit channel or fixed guide regulating or restricting the path of the mover. For example in some cases all or part of the mover will only be able to raise lower twist or otherwise move in a particular path when at specific locations. Such motion can be required to engage or disengage a basket. In some cases this movement will provide for consumer safety such as preventing the basket from disengaging at an inappropriate or unsafe position. Engaging or disengaging can be controlled to happen when the mover arm or associated components close a switch or circuit at a predetermined position cause movement of the mover or subcomponent by encountering a pin releasing a spring or other mechanical means when reaching some location e.g. releasing a catch pushing an engage disengage rod on the mover opening or closing a claw or release prevention arm rotating the basket to a position allowing release from a hook or engagement mechanism at associated with the mover etc. . Multiple movers are also possible to move the same basket or multiple baskets and or engage disengage the basket s either through independent action of each mover or multiple movers acting in concert.

The mover in the embodiment moves the inner basket along the paths of movement illustrated. The mover is a linear actuator according to some embodiments. The inner basket can translate upwards to leave the first liquid container and allow the liquid to drain from the inner basket above container . The inner basket can then slide e.g. translate toward the second liquid container . The inner basket then translates downward toward the second liquid container . In this manner the inner basket containing the food product can move from one container of liquid to another container of liquid to immerse or submerge the food product in the liquid. One example of how the mover could be designed is illustrated in though other designs following the same paths of movement could also be used.

The left side of illustrates the inner basket inside the first liquid container . The right side of illustrates the inner basket lifted out of the first liquid container . The cable has shortened and the inner basket is now positioned closer to the lift .

In some embodiments the food product can be contained in an inner basket that slides or rolls along the main container such as a round or cylindrical inner basket with perforations that allow liquid to contact the food. In this case the inner basket may be removable from container and or for removal of the food product from the apparatus . As applies throughout this application the inner basket can have other shapes or be absent as described for the other figures embodiments elsewhere in this application.

In addition each of the liquid containers can include a heater though more or fewer heaters can also be used. The heaters are shown in various different positions associated with the liquid containers to illustrate some of the different configurations that can be used for the heaters. However the heaters can all be positioned in the same position relative to the respective liquid container too. Heater is shown wrapped around a portion of the container . Heater is shown below and in direct contact with container . Heater is shown below and not in direct contact with container . The heaters shown in any of the other figures can use any of these positions.

In general the illustrative embodiments shown herein are applicable to 2 3 4 5 or more containers. For example an apparatus similar to with three or with five or more liquid containers is possible and those containers may be equally sized or differently sized. Similarly a linear chain four square grid or other pattern of containers is possible for embodiments similar to those shown in with containers equally or differently sized. Two or more inner and or outer containers are also possible. For example in a second inner container could be present in place of or conjunction with the weight . An asymmetrical arrangement is also possible in by adding adjacent outer baskets e.g. in first liquid container as shown and simultaneously in liquid container not shown . Those outer baskets could be rigidly fixed relative to each other and each move their own corresponding inner basket at the same time or they could operate independently with one or more movers. Embodiments including swinging arm lift and move teeter totter etc. as described herein may have multiple jointly or independently moved inner and or outer baskets.

In some embodiments a mover is present along with an outer basket moved by the mover . In these embodiments an inner basket can be included and can be removable from the outer basket and thus also moveable by the mover . In those embodiments some or all of the food product can be contained in one of the moving baskets and in the inner basket as shown in . In many such embodiments the controller will control the mover and thus will control the positioning of the basket s and the positioning of the food product that is in the baskets. In this way for example the controller can control the immersion of the food product in the baskets in a liquid contained in the first liquid container and for example can dunk the food product in the liquid or remove the food product from the liquid to drain the liquid from the food product. In embodiments where the mover and basket s are present the controller executes the soaking program executes the cooking program and uses the mover to drain the food product when the cooking program reaches completion in order to prevent over cooking or over exposure of the food product to liquid. In some cases food product removed from the liquid may be temporarily replaced in the liquid to for example maintain temperature or liquid content e.g. prevent drying out of the food product . In some embodiments the mover is also used to hold the main container out of the liquid before the start of the first cycle e.g. before the start of the soaking cycle to prevent soaking from starting until a particular time has been reached. In addition the mover can move the main container out of the liquid in between the cycles as desired.

The sensor s shown in can be any of the types of sensor s described throughout this application and can include a combination of different sensors. For example one or more of the sensor s could be a tilt sensor for detecting if the apparatus has been tilted or is otherwise imbalanced. Such a sensor can be used to prevent spillage of the liquid in the first liquid container or to detect when a spill has already occurred.

Although controller connections are shown in the figure as direct connections indirect connection to the controller may also be used e.g. the mechanical operation of a mover controlled by the controller to control a spice hatch . Furthermore some or all components may be part of the controller system a.k.a controller by being independently controlled e.g. self controlled but part of the controller by being part of the designed plan to control the operation of the apparatus to produce the food product.

This apparatus provides for among other aspects the soaking and cooking of a food product in a single liquid container and when a mover and baskets outer and or inner are provided for also using the mover to improve the cooking soaking and maintenance of the food product s quality. In addition a mover can also be used to position the basket s for more convenient receiving of the food e.g. to raise the baskets out of the liquid for activation of spice hatches e.g. for mechanical interaction with spice hatches to release spices such as bumping a switch protrusion etc. . Since only a single liquid container is included the apparatus does not require changing of liquid between the soaking and cooking steps. Instead the soaking liquid used to soak that food product can be reused as the liquid for cooking the food product.

In some embodiments of each type of apparatus described in this application gravity e.g. sliding down a track and a downward path may be used to provide some or all of the power required for translating and or lowering the inner basket. In further embodiments the apparatus e.g. includes a combination of one or more of the concepts described throughout with one or more of a drain with a valve for draining liquid from one of the containers e.g. containers . This liquid can drain into a dump container and the user can throw out this used liquid after the cooking process is complete. In further embodiments the apparatus e.g. includes a rotating pot that can pour water into one of the containers e.g. containers to fill or refill liquid in the containers as needed. This rotating pot can sit above or near containers e.g. for example and can be filled by the user. The pot can rotate as needed to pour liquid into the containers e.g. as liquid is used. Similarly liquid could drain out of one or multiple containers e.g. e.g. into a dump container and the liquid can be replaced by the rotating pot pouring fresh liquid into one or more containers e.g. to replenish the liquid.

The motions described herein can be applied to move various components of the apparatus to achieve the same relative motion of the food product and liquid containers. This can be applied to virtually all embodiments. As one specific example in the inner basket and outer basket could be held stationary relative to apparatus while the mover mechanism lowers and rotates the first liquid container and second liquid container . Thus the mover can move the food product from the first liquid container to the second liquid container by holding the food product stationary while moving the first and second liquid containers . Similarly In the inner baskets and could be fixed relative to the apparatus while a mover moves the first and second liquid containers and downward and across in order to effectively move the inner basket from the first liquid container to the second liquid container. In some such embodiments other components such as the heaters may also move with the liquid containers. In other embodiments the heaters and or other components may stay fixed relative to the overall apparatus. In some embodiments movement of the liquid containers may be used to eliminate one or more additional components such as having a single heater or sensors fixed relative to the inner container and able to heat or sense the first second or other liquid containers depending on which container is moved to for example a position to contain the inner basket. Thus the descriptions emphasizing the motion of one component such as moving one or more inner baskets or food products relative to one or more fixed liquid containers can also include fixing the inner baskets or food products while moving the liquid containers or other components.

In some embodiments a holding mechanism for holding a main container inner basket and or outer basket will be used to allow keeping the basket or food product in a particular position with minimal energy. For example one may desire to move the food product from a liquid container to above a liquid container and hold it above the liquid container for an extended period to drain excess liquid back into the liquid container or to present it for easy removal by a user. In some cases a basket handle will be more easily reached when the inner outer or main container is raised to a position above and or between liquid containers e.g. position and or and in some cases the inner outer or main container will release from the mover mechanism for manual removal only when in specific pre determined locations e.g. position and or . However many mover components such as motors may consume energy while holding a weight against the force of gravity. In some such cases the apparatus may incorporate a mechanism such as a one way ratchet a lip ledge fixed or controllable moving pin or other resting position where the inner outer or main container may rest so that the mover expends little or no energy to resist the full force of gravity or a mechanical lock gearing clutch electromagnetic locking pin or other mechanical intervention to hold the weight of the inner outer or main container and or food product. The holding mechanism can be configured for holding the main container e.g. in a fourth position where the main container is vertically over the first liquid container e.g. such that liquid from the main container e.g. drains by gravity into the first liquid container e.g. and a fifth position where the main container e.g. is vertically over the second liquid container e.g. such that liquid from the main container e.g. drains by gravity into the second liquid container e.g. . Similarly the holding mechanism can hold the main container e.g. at a position for adding spices to the main container e.g. or any other predetermined position in the apparatus and the holding mechanism can provide control of one way directionality. In some embodiments the holding mechanism comprises instructions for holding the main container in predetermined positions in the apparatus.

In the swinging arm example a ratchet at the pivot point may be desirable as may a locking pin at the pivot point or inserted into or next to the mover e.g. arm to lock it into place at the desired angle or location. In the lift and rotate examples a locking pin clutch or catch in the controller may be desirable as may lowering the basket at an intermediate point between the liquid containers possibly to rest on a drip protector between the liquid containers e.g. to rest on drip protector of . In the lift and translate examples such as a catch in the mover that controllably locks the outer basket may be desirable as may lowering the outer basket to rest at an intermediate point drip protector . A locking pin friction brake clutch etc. and many other known mechanisms can also be used within the motor mover power transmission mechanism other components of the system to temporarily halt the motion of the mover while holding up the various moved containers baskets and food products.

In some embodiments a heater heating etc. can be interpreted as having the ability to cool or freeze removing heat or chilling liquids or food products etc. In some embodiments an ability to increase and decrease temperature can be used by a heater to maintain a stable or fixed temperature in a high temperature environment. In some embodiments an ability to decrease temperature can be used to create a low temperature liquid or environment for rapid cooling of a food product in some cases before or after it has been subjected to a high heat environment.

In some apparatuses methods and or embodiments described herein a design or method to move the main container around for dunking is an optional addition. For example the main container can be repeatedly raised and lowered within or in and out of one or more liquid containers thereby causing motion of liquid across a food product or container holding food. In some embodiments this dunking motion is used to achieve one or all of rinsing or washing of a food product cleaning of the actual container or part of the apparatus itself maintaining an approximate temperature for a container or food product by subjecting it to one temperature in a liquid container removing it from that liquid container to allow partial adjustment towards the temperature outside e.g. in air or another liquid container of that liquid container replacing it into the liquid container for adjustment of the temperature towards the temperature in the liquid container and thereby attaining an overall an intermediate temperature mixing food product within a container by the dunking e.g. due to stirring of the food product by the influence of the liquid in the liquid container. In addition the motor can be configured to move the main container around to mix the food product and liquid inside the main container.

The liquid container main container outer and or inner basket can contain one or more stirring mechanisms. In some embodiments a stirring mechanism may include a rotating arm or blade a magnetic stirring bar or magnetic stirring particle s baffles structures for increasing stirring during dunking or liquid flow or others. In some embodiments the stirring mechanisms can be limited in force motion action and or shape to prevent or encourage breakage damage or disruption of food product or arrangements and in some embodiments those food products include limiting the stirring mechanism to prevent the breakage or damage to tender beans.

The spice hatches and sensors can be placed in many locations in most of the embodiments described for our invention in this application. For clarity and brevity they and their controller connections have been omitted from the many of the figures. However they can be located in places including contained in the main container inner basket outer basket in the lid of the apparatus the first second third etc. liquid containers etc. In some embodiments it may be desired to provide spices e.g. seasonings directly to the food product or indirectly by first adding them to the liquid in a liquid container. Moreover in some embodiments the spice hatches and or sensors can be activated by and or connected to one or a combination of a mechanical or electronic controller a mechanical or electronic switch activated by the passage of the food product or a container past a pre determined point or the physical contact with a main container basket etc. A motor is used in a general sense throughout this application and may include but is not limited to an AC motor a DC motor a servo a stepper motor a spring a mechanical coil a weight or counter weight a magnet or electromagnet or a combination of these.

For brevity some figures do not show particular components including one or more controllers controller components and or one or more sensors to avoid unnecessary complication in the figures. However the figures all provide for and teach the presence of one or more controllers and sensors for many embodiments and similarly they teach control and or communication connections connecting some or all of the controllers sensors heaters motors movers and other components of the apparatus that perform sensing motion control user input or interaction consume energy etc. The location of sensors is described in many embodiments throughout this text and those descriptions and placements apply to the other embodiments given in our text and figures and the sensors may be placed in other locations regardless of whether they are drawn or not in a particular place in a particular figure. Moreover sensors that sense will generally be in communication with i.e. connected to in some operative manner a controller for example through electrical optical mechanical wireless and or other types of connections well known in the appliance and electro mechanical arts for communicating signals or transmitting information. Similar types of connections will be present for controlling the mover s heaters drainers spice hatches cooking programs storage and execution apparatus user inputs motors sprouting components rinsing components soaking components self cleaning components etc.

In some embodiments a controller will be an electronic control such as a central processing unit or application specific integrated circuit. In other embodiments a mechanical system one or more timers switches and or relays etc. will be used instead or in addition. Those controllers will in many embodiments activate and control heaters by regulating the flow of electrical current to the heaters or gas flow valves supplying energy to the heaters. In some embodiments the sensors will be connected to the controllers to provide information on time cooking doneness temperature etc with electrical wires being one common method of providing information to the controller. Spice hatches can commonly communicate with the controller via wires often indirectly by the state of switches motors or other described means that indicate whether a particular spice hatch is open or closed and similar communication may be used by the controller to activate catches movers or other mechanisms to open or close one or more spice hatches. Controllers can be in communication with user interfaces for receiving settings for example through a touchpad dials speaker microphone electrical or mechanical switches etc. When user feedback mechanisms such as a display sound generators and or indicator lights are present the controller can be connected to control what is shown on the display when and what sounds are generated and the state of indicator lights. The operation of the controller can be enhanced by sensors that indicate the position and state of the one or more main containers basket device lid etc. so that the correct order of steps may be followed and feedback given to the user. In some cases a simple form of controller can be achieved by the designed opening and closing of various switches that are opened or closed by timers movers or container positioning etc so that the system steps through a series of known states in a known order for example as following a flowchart or state diagram where the actual controller is distributed as the set of switches relays and or mechanisms that control the state of the system as it steps from one state to the next. For example a switch that cuts off power when a swinging arm mover reaches a pre defined position and that activates a timer that will re activate the mover once the timer counts down does also provide a form of controller that can be used with the apparatus even though the components are both distributed and no central processing unit is required. Controllers as mechanical devices are taught for use in our invention.

In some cases heating liquid to indirectly heat a food product is described however one of ordinary skill will appreciate that those cases also include directly heating the food. In some embodiments microwaving inductive heating and or infra red heating are used.

In some embodiments one or more spice hatches have an opening mechanism set to fully or partially isolate ingredients that are affected by conditions within the apparatus e.g. extended soaking heating and or exposure to humidity. For example dry rice many peas and some lentil varieties may be best cooked without extended pre soaking some spices dissipate or loose flavor and a spice hatch that holds and isolates them until proper release time thus allows the apparatus to be pre loaded with these foods and with liquids yet delay for an extended period of time before starting a e.g. cooking cycle and or run other cycles while keeping those ingredients primed for use. In some embodiments a spice hatch will be configured to expose contents e.g. ingredients to some conditions but isolate from others e.g. allow heat in but keep out moisture to prepare those ingredients for future use e.g. heated to a safe keeping temperature without exposing to liquid prior to opening a spice hatch pre melting certain spices etc. .

One or more spice hatches e.g. delay boxes can also release or expose a food product e.g. the spice hatch will be opened such as lentils beans meat etc. that was previously kept dry and or isolated from the surroundings by the un opened or un released spice hatch into a basket main container and or liquid container. The one or more spice hatches can be located above near or even immersed or fully submerged within liquid e.g. cooking liquid in a liquid container in the apparatus. In some such embodiments the spice hatch will be opened upon reaching pre determined conditions by a mechanical switch bimetal coil or other standard mechanism that is sensitive to physical conditions e.g. temperature pressure and or humidity . In some examples food such as lentils split peas or rice can be released into liquid only a minute or so before the water boils based on the temperature activation of a mechanically or signal controlled spice hatch e.g. a temperature sensitive release coil. In some embodiments opening of a spice hatch is performed by a passive or active locking opening mechanism such as a passive mechanism can be made out of a material that changes shape or size upon reaching a set point in temperature pressure or humidity. This material can be a bimetal for example copper steel or brass steel or a memory alloy such as Nitinol or other bimetal e.g. those used in the thermostat in simple rice cookers. In some cases a locking opening mechanism changes shape or size and thus allows the bottom or the sides of the spice hatch to open and release contents. Spice hatch bottoms or parts may be made from material that changes shape or size at a certain conditions so as to open the spice hatch. Active mechanisms may include a power source and or a sensing element that senses when a set point of conditions is reached and then delivers an electric signal to a control circuit that determines what action to take. The control circuit can also affect a locking mechanism opening the spice hatch e.g. so the hatch contents can pour out.

A spice hatch may be free standing to fit into any pot chamber basket or other structure of the apparatus or it can be an integral part of a specific cooking container basket the main apparatus and or a lid of any structure in the apparatus. Spice hatch es may be pressure safe or only protect the contents from liquid temperature and or moisture and in some cases can be fully closed or even have the top or a side open perforated or otherwise partially exposed. In some cases such openings may improve loading the spice hatch cleaning and or delivering its contents.

The method includes receiving the food product into a main container of the apparatus. In embodiments in which the main container is removable the main container can also be received into the apparatus. For example the main container can be received in the third position in the apparatus which can be a position for loading and unloading the main container or the food product in the main container. The method also includes receiving one or more settings input by a user. In some embodiments the settings are for one or more cycles or at least two cycles including a food product sprouting cycle a food product rinsing cycle a food product soaking cycle a food product cooking cycle an apparatus self cleaning cycle a cooling cycle a warming cycle and a frying cycle. The method can further include automatically starting a new cycle upon completion of another cycle. As one example the method can include receiving settings for a soaking cycle and a cooking cycle for the food product where the cooking cycle can start in response to the soaking cycle coming to an end. A variety of other cycles can start one after another or at the same time as desired. This series of one or more cycles may be part of a recipe.

The method further includes moving at least a part of the main container into a first position inside a first liquid container. The food product enters the first liquid container by the moving of the main container into the first position. In some embodiments the food product is immersed e.g. partially or fully submerged in a liquid by entering the first liquid container. Where there is a heater associated with the first liquid container the method can include heating the first liquid container. If not the method continues to the next step. Where there are one or more spice hatches included in the apparatus the spices or other substances e.g. degassing components etc. can be released into the main container and or liquid container. The food product can be allowed to stay in the first liquid container for a specified time period. For example where this is a soaking cycle the food product can be allowed to soak in a liquid in the first liquid container for a period of time. In some embodiments a specified time period can be until pre defined conditions are met and hence variable in the actual wall clock time used. As one example in some embodiments of the preceding step pre determined conditions for a time period include sufficient soaking of a food product detected by a soaking sensor attached within the apparatus. When this time is up the method can move to the next step. In embodiments in which there is a fourth position for the main container the method further includes moving the main container into the fourth position e.g. a draining position for allowing liquid to drain from the main container. This fourth position can be directly above the first liquid container or otherwise positioned to allow liquid to drain back into the first liquid container.

The method additionally includes moving the main container into a second position. In some embodiments this movement is in response to reaching the end of the specified time period for being allowed to stay the first liquid container. The food product enters the second liquid container by the moving of the main container into the second position. The food product is immersed in a liquid by entering the second liquid container. Where there is a heater included for the second liquid container the method also includes heating the second liquid container. The heating of the second liquid container heats the liquid and the liquid heats the food product. For example where this is a cooking cycle the heating can cook the food product in the second liquid container. In some embodiments this heating also occurs when the main container is in the first liquid container e.g. for a heated soaking cycle or quick soak degassing for a heated sprouting cycle etc. . Where there are one or more spice hatches in the apparatus the method also includes releasing the spices or other substances into the main container or into the first or second liquid container. In some embodiments the main container can be allowed to stay in the second liquid container until a specified period of time has passed.

Where there is a fifth position when the time period has passed the method then moves the main container into a fifth position e.g. a draining position for draining liquid from the main container. This fifth position can be directly above the second liquid container or otherwise positioned to allow liquid to drain back into the first second or other liquid container s . If there are additional cycles to run and or additional liquid containers into which the main container can be placed the process can restart by moving or the main container into the next liquid container. This can be automatic without requiring any user intervention. In some embodiments the method ends by moving the main container into a third position e.g. a loading unloading position for unloading the main container or a portion thereof from the apparatus or for unloading the food product from the main container. Each of the steps of the method except perhaps for the receiving steps can be fully automated without requiring any input or interaction with a user. The order of some steps may also be changed. For example the order of receiving food product receiving settings may be varied or done in parallel pre heating may be used to heat liquid containers earlier in the method spices may be added at varying and or multiple times etc. In some embodiment the method is a sprouting method and steps of operating the apparatus are performed to sprout the food product.

Referring now to there is shown a flowchart illustrating the user method of operation of the apparatus according to one or more embodiment s of the invention. The user fills the main container with the food product to the correct level e.g. a pre determined amount as determined by a measurement line on the inside of container or by a sensor etc. e.g. about 2 cups 4 dL . The user fills one or both liquid containers to a measurement line with fresh liquid e.g. about 10 cups 2 L . In embodiments where there are one or more spice hatches in the apparatus the user may fill one or more spice hatches. The user can make sure the display still displays the start message. Steps and can occur in any order. In some embodiments the user can take advantage of removability of the liquid containers to fill one or more away from the apparatus and then return them to the apparatus. For example the user can remove a liquid container fill it at a kitchen sink and then return it. In such embodiments a carry handle may be built into the liquid container. In some embodiments the spice hatches are loaded with sufficient spices for multiple uses so a user need not always fill them.

The user may enter the parameters for the apparatus. For example the user can select the particular food product on the display confirms and the message on the display shows the food e.g. BLACK BEANS . In some cases the device may auto select settings for example by an optical RFID or other sensing of the type of food and or spices added. As another example the time symbol e.g. 00 00 can appear on the display and the user can set the desired eating time e.g. in hours and minutes from the time right now or desired time until starting by adjusting the time on the display. The user may confirm any or all settings. One or messages will be displayed for the cycle e.g. BLACK BEANS RESTING 16 30 which is the time left to the end in this example 16 hours and 30 minutes . Once the timer counts down to zero the apparatus can switch to low heat or warming mode to keep the meal warm for up to several hours or days and the display can indicate this e.g. COOLING aa bb where aa bb is the time since the low heat mode was entered . In such keep warm modes special programs to keep food sanitary such as heating to or above 60 C or 140 F occasionally or continually may be employed. The user can wait until the display indicates this cycle e.g. LOW HEAT aa bb which indicates that container is sufficiently cooled off to be removed. The user can then remove the food product or remove the main container holding the food product . In some embodiments the main container can then be used as a serving dish. Afterwards the components of the apparatus can be washed and one or more components placed in the dishwasher. The user can also put the container back into the apparatus to run a cleaning cycle . The user can then re start a new cycle with a new food product as desired. This is just one example of steps that can occur in the method though more fewer or different steps can occur. The order of some steps may also be changed. For example the order of filling with food product filling liquid filling spice hatch entering input entering eating time may be varied or done in parallel spices may generally be added at varying and or multiple times etc.

A variety of other designs and uses are possible for the apparatus. Some designs of the apparatus include multiple main containers for coordinated cooking of different food products under different or distinct conditions in each chamber. For example beans could be prepared in one container and rice in the other. In the multi chamber design the main container can be replaced by two main containers that may allow separate or joint cooking and or that may be designed for snapping into and out of the apparatus by the user according to his cooking needs. Both chambers can be thermally connected such that when the left chamber is heated the right chamber is also heated or they could be heated separately with separate heaters. In some cases a divider can be added to a main container to create two possibly temporary compartments serving as dual main containers. In some embodiments the containers can have two or more liquid containers for receiving liquid independently in the chambers. Each chamber can have one or more independent spice hatches. A microcontroller mechanical controller and or various sensors can be used to independently operate the two chambers. Hence the apparatus provides for one two three four five or more main containers some or all of which may be independently or only jointly removable drainable liquid receivable etc. with independent sensors and so forth.

The apparatus can be designed to allow sprouting of some foods such as for sprouting of beans legumes plants etc. In some embodiments sprouting includes growing of plants of various types. Moisture warmth and in most cases indirect or artificial sunlight may be needed for sprouting. The food to be sprouted can be placed directly into the main container or into one or more removable baskets placed in the main container. The apparatus can include a sprouting cycle or setting that allows the user to set the apparatus to sprout the food product e.g. for a specified period of time such as for 1 day 2 days 3 days etc. The user can also set the apparatus to sprout for a set period of time and then automatically begin cooking after that period of time. The apparatus can be designed to allow the food product to receive light for sprouting e.g. where the lid of the main container and or outer container is transparent or allows light to pass through where there is a growing light inside one or both containers etc. . There can also be a grow light attached to the main container or outer container for providing light to the food product inside the main container. The apparatus can be designed to allow for air circulation and to provide moisture during the sprouting process. Sensors can be used to ensure the moisture level is appropriate for sprouting. The apparatus can further include an agitator to mechanically agitate or shake the main container or the floor of the main container or the container itself can be moved to provide agitation for circulating the food product or liquid in the main container. The apparatus can also include an air circulator associated with the main container for circulating air inside the main container. The apparatus can also be used to provide warming or temperature management for sprouting. The apparatus can be further designed to control the environmental conditions inside including the pressure temperature humidity etc. to maintain the appropriate or optimal sprouting conditions for the particular food product e.g. via the microcontroller and sensors . The apparatus can further include an immersion regulation controller for controlling the amount of immersion of the main container in the moisture to sprout the food product.

The apparatus can also be designed for blanching steaming sterilizing and or frying food. For example there can be separate settings or buttons of the device for these functions. The blanching function can be designed to do a quick boil or to quickly dip the food in hot water. For example for vegetables this could be designed to cook in a manner that does not penetrate the vegetables all the way through so that they are still crunchy but cooked on the outside. The vegetables or other food or plant item can be placed directly inside the main container for blanching or steaming or there can be one or more insertable baskets inside the main container in which the food to be blanched or steamed can be placed. The frying function can be designed to lower the food into heated oil in the second liquid container and remove it when an appropriate time period has ended. In some cases that time period can be when specific conditions such as done ness level as sensed by a sensor are achieved. In some cases fried beans legumes or other foods can be made by utilizing water into a first liquid container and oil into a second liquid container. Again the environmental conditions inside the main container can be controlled for steaming blanching sterilizing and or frying food. In addition the apparatus can further be used for sous vide a French style of cooking food under vacuum with the food in a airtight plastic bag in a water bath for a period of time e.g. 72 hours at an accurately determined temperature that is much lower that is normally used for cooking e.g. 60 C. or 140 F. . The food in the airtight plastic bag can be placed in one of the liquid containers. It can be moved to different liquid containers or be raised and lowered from the liquid container to adjust the temperature of the food according to some embodiments. In some embodiments an inner or outer basket may be or may be used as or in place of an airtight plastic bag. In some embodiments an inner or outer basket may be airtight flexible vacuum sealable may designed to be bled of air or allow easy air removal etc.

Many of the principal components of the apparatus e.g. the main container s liquid containers and other surfaces in liquid and solid contact with the main container s during cooking can be removed for cleaning either manually or for placement in a standard home dish washing machine to maintain the hygienic state of the apparatus. In some embodiments all parts that come into contact with the food product can be removable. Components can also be sized to fit inside a standard home dish washing machine including in the size dimensions described above and can be coated or designed with materials that are dishwasher safe. In some embodiments the weight of each removable component will be suitable for easy detachability washability and ergonomic home use e.g. with a weight not more than 50 25 20 15 12 10 8 5 4 3 2 1 or 0.5 pounds or any values in between or any ranges including these values and in many cases a designed to fall at or below OSHA guidelines for single person manual lifting. In practical uses detachable or removable means easily removed from the device without resorting to general purpose tools and also means easily re installed without those tools.

The apparatus can be further designed to be portable meaning it can be moved or carried by a single home user and can be placed on a standard home kitchen countertop with components that can be placed in a home dishwasher etc. The device can be designed to minimize the device footprint or counter shelf space in a kitchen. It can be powered for use with standard household outlets and can follow appliance guidelines for standard household use. In some cases the apparatus may incorporate portable power such as solar cells and or batteries to maintain partial or full functionality with intermittent or no connectivity to external power sources for an extended period of time. Physical design can also be adjusted for storage portability and placement. In some embodiments the apparatus is a consumer or home kitchen appliance apparatus that is non industrial in nature or for use in non industrial kitchens.

The above description provides various examples of the apparatus and methods. Various other components could be included in the apparatus and various other steps in the methods including any of components steps and any of the different designs of component steps described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61261342 filed on Nov. 15 2009 U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 945 891 filed on Nov. 15 2010 International Application No. PCT US10 56636 filed on Nov. 15 2010 and or U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 370 466 filed on Aug. 4 2010 which are each incorporated by reference herein in their entireties for all purposes including any appendices or attachments thereof.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments. The scope of the invention is to be limited only by the following claims. As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or some embodiments in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

