---

title: IP-based conferencing in a telecommunications network
abstract: Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems, methods, computer program products, and the like, for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network, and more specifically for a conferencing routing service for managing and routing collaboration participants. In one embodiment, the conferencing system may utilize Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) to conduct the routing of the collaboration conferences within the telecommunications network. The SIP-based routing provides for the exchanging of information from one device of the conferencing system to another that is not available in non-IP based conferencing systems. Thus, through the use of IP-based telecommunication devices, the network provides beneficial features for collaboration conferencing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09013538&OS=09013538&RS=09013538
owner: Level 3 Communications, LLC
number: 09013538
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121207
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 794 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 798 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 803 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 807 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 578 810 entitled SIP BASED VOIP COLLABORATION all filed on Dec. 21 2011 and each of which is incorporated by reference in there entirety herein. This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to provisional patent application 61 584 115 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE and provisional patent application 61 584 122 titled CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVICE both filed on Jan. 6 2012 and both of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure generally relate to systems and methods that provide for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants using devices connected to a telecommunication network including a VoIP network and more specifically for a conferencing system utilizing one or more Internet Protocol IP based telecommunication devices.

Telecommunication networks provide for the transmission of information across some distance through terrestrial wireless or satellite communication networks. Such communications may involve voice data or multimedia information among others. In addition telecommunication networks often offer features and or services to the customers of the network that provide flexible and varied ways in which the communications are transmitted over the network. For example some telecommunication networks provide a conferencing feature that allows several users of the network to communicate at once rather than a simple person to person communication. The number of participants to a conference communication may range from a few users to several thousand users communicating on the same telephonic and or data call.

Typically conferencing communications require participants to the conference to place a telephonic call to a dedicated conferencing number. Some networks also require the participants enter a conference call code into the keypad of a telephonic device. The conferencing number and code are then utilized by the telecommunications network to connect that participant to a conferencing bridge device. In general a conferencing bridge is a telecommunications device that hosts the participants of a conferencing communication such that the participants can attend the communication. Thus the network typically receives the dialed number and conference code from each participant and connects the participant to the conferencing bridge. Once connected to the conference bridge the participant may take part in the conferencing communication.

It is with these and other issues in mind among others that various aspects of the present disclosure were conceived and developed.

One implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a telecommunications network. The network may include at least one conference bridge and a least one routing device. The routing device is configured to receive a communication from a user of the telecommunications network the communication comprising a request to initiate a collaboration conference identify the at least one conference bridge and transmit a refer command configured to route the communication from the user to the at least one conference bridge. Further the at least one conference bridge is a Session Initiation Protocol SIP based telecommunications device and is configured to host the collaboration conference in response to the communication from the user.

Another implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a method for hosting a collaboration conference in a telecommunications network. The method include the operations of receiving a SIP request message for access to a collaboration conference from a requester s communication device the request comprising an identifier of the requester in the header of the SIP request message and selecting a hosting conference bridge from a plurality of conference bridges associated with the telecommunications network and configured to host a collaboration conference wherein the hosting conference bridge is a session initiation protocol SIP based telecommunication device. In addition the method includes transmitting a SIP request message to the selected hosting conference bridge wherein the SIP based request message comprises at least the conference identification number and transmitting one or more SIP refer routing messages to the telecommunications network wherein the one or more routing messages comprises at least an internet protocol IP address of the selected hosting conference bridge.

Yet another implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a system for hosting a collaboration conference in a telecommunications network. The system includes a network interface unit configured to receive a communication from a user of a communications network to establish a collaboration conference on the network an application server in communication with the network interface unit and a computer readable medium connected to the application server. The computer readable medium is configured to store information and instructions that when executed by the application server performs certain operations. Such operations include receiving a session initiation protocol SIP request message from a routing device of the network the SIP request message comprising a request for at least one communication port of a hosting conference bridge associated with the network wherein the hosting conference bridge is a SIP based telecommunication device reserving at least one communication port of the hosting conference bridge and transmitting a SIP based acknowledgement message in response to the SIP request message the acknowledgement message comprising at least the IP address of the hosting conference bridge. Additionally the operations also include receiving a SIP request message for access to a collaboration conference from a requester s communication device the request comprising an identifier of the requester in the header of the SIP request message and hosting a collaboration conference of a plurality of users of the network.

Aspects of the present disclosure involve systems methods computer program products and the like for collaboration conferencing with multiple participants over a communications network and more specifically for a conferencing system utilizing one or more Internet Protocol IP based telecommunication devices. The term collaboration conferencing as used herein includes any type of multimedia conferencing over a network such as audio conferencing web or internet conferencing and multi site video conferencing. In one embodiment the conferencing system may utilize Session Initiation Protocol SIP to route collaboration conferences within the telecommunications network. The SIP based routing provides for the exchanging of information from one device of the conferencing system to another that is not available in non IP based conferencing systems. Thus through the use of IP based telecommunication devices the network provides beneficial features for collaboration conferencing.

The VoIP network includes numerous components such as but not limited to gateways routers and registrars which enable communication across the VoIP network but are not shown or described in detail here because those skilled in the art will readily understand these components. More relevant to this description is the interaction and communication between the VoIP network and other entities such as the one or more customer home or business local area networks LANs where a participant in a conference will connect with the system for the conference.

Customer network can include communication devices such as but not limited to a personal computer or a telephone connected to a router firewall . Although shown in as computer the communication devices may include any type of communication device that receives a multimedia signal such as an audio video or web based signal and presents that signal for use by a user of the communication device. The communication and networking components of the customer network enable a user at the customer network to communicate via the VoIP network to other communication devices such as another customer network and or an analog telephone . Components of the customer network are typically home based or business based but they can be relocated and may be designed for easy portability. For example the communication device may be wireless e.g. cellular telephone smart phone tablet or portable laptop computer.

The customer network typically connects to the VoIP network via a border network such as one provided by an Internet Service Provider ISP . The border network is typically provided and maintained by a business or organization such as a local telephone company or cable company. The border network may provide network communication related services to their customers. In contrast the communication device accesses and is accessed by the VoIP network via a public switched telephone network PSTN operated by a local exchange carrier LEC . Communication via any of the networks can be wired wireless or any combination thereof. Additionally the border network and PSTN may communicate in some embodiments with the VoIP Network through a media gateway device . For ease of instruction only three communication devices are shown communicating with the VoIP network however numerous such devices and other devices may be connected with the network which is equipped to handle enormous numbers of simultaneous calls and other communications.

In general a request for a collaboration conference over the VoIP network is initiated by a requester through one of the communication devices associated with the network. As used herein the term collaboration conference includes any type of collaboration between three or more users of a communication network. For example the collaboration conference may include audio collaboration video collaboration web collaboration a combination of any of the above and the like. For ease of instruction the collaboration conferences discussed herein are generally made in reference to an audio conference although any type of collaboration conference over a telecommunications network is envisioned with respect to the present disclosure. Similarly although illustrates some of the communication devices as telephonic devices the communication devices may be any type of communication device including personal computers cellular phones and the like.

Upon receipt of the request for a collaboration conference the network routes the request to a routing device or routing devices integrated within the network . However it should be appreciated that the routing device may be a part of the network may be separate from the network or may have portions deployed in the network and out of the network. In addition the routing device may be resident on one or more components of the VoIP network including several instances of the routing device integrated throughout the network . Further although only a single instance of a routing device is illustrated in any number of routing devices may be present in the network .

To transmit the request to the network the requester uses the communication device to enter a conference specific telephone number or access port. The routing device receives the request to begin a collaboration conference or join an existing conference. In response and described in more detail below the routing device may route the one or more requests to one of several conference bridges associated with the VoIP network for hosting of the collaboration conference. Although only two conference bridges are shown in it should be appreciated that any number of conference bridges may be associated with the network for hosting collaboration conferences.

In general the conference bridges provide a hosting site for a collaboration conference between a plurality of users of the network . Thus the conference bridge A may host a collaboration conference while the conference bridge B may host an additional collaboration conference. In particular the conference bridge A is connected to the communications network through a media gateway similar to the media gateway disclosed above. This configuration may be utilized when the conference bridge is a time division multiplex TDM bridge. Conference bridge B is internal to the VoIP network through which the communications of the conference are transmitted. This configuration is utilized for Internet Protocol IP based bridges and is generally described in more detail below.

One particular network and or conference bridge platform supported by the network configuration of is a Session Initiation Protocol SIP based network. For example the conference bridge B may be a SIP based conference bridge. Such IP based components may provide additional conferencing features to the network by providing information concerning the collaboration conference in a header of a message transmitted through the network such as an identification of the collaboration conference video integration Uniform Resource Identifier URI based routing and conference integration conference access credentials for authentication and permission to enter the requested conference. SIP based conference bridges may also provide high definition audio additional security features and transitions between collaboration conferences without having to redial into the system. In general because components operating utilizing SIP can exchange information within a header many additional features for a collaboration conference can be offered to participants on a SIP based conference bridge. In addition SIP based CCRS devices may utilize many of the advantages of information exchange within the header when communicating with TDM based network devices.

To connect to a collaboration conference each participant to the conference may be routed to the same conference bridge for the duration of the conference. The conference bridge in turn provides communication ports for each participant such that each participant can hear or otherwise participate in the collaboration conference. Any conference bridge known in the art or hereafter developed may be integrated into the system of for hosting a collaboration conference including IP based conference bridges. In addition the term conference bridge or bridge includes any component of a communication network that provides an access point to one or more users of the network for a collaboration conference. For example a conference bridge may also include such devices as a media server device a gateway server device or the like as configured within the network .

In some instances the conference bridge or routing device upon receipt of the request to initiate or join a collaboration conference executes an application that queries the requester to enter an access code number that the requester enters into the communication device . With this information the network determines that the requester intends to initiate or join a collaboration conference and routes the request to a conference bridge as explained in greater detail below.

The conference bridge may receive a request from the network to connect a requester with a hosted conference. The request may be received through a signaling protocol such as through the signal plane of a SIP based communication. In response the application server may provision one or more ports for connection to the requester s communication. The app server may then signal to the network that the ports are available at which point the data or audio portion of the communication may be routed to an available port in the conference bridge . In this manner the handshaking between the network and the conference bridge may occur over the signaling plane of the IP based protocol separate from the data or audio portion known as the real time transport protocol RTP plane of the communication request. A more detailed description of the method through which a request is routed to a conference bridge is included below with reference to .

In a SIP based implementation of the network and the conference bridge the routing of the request to the conference bridge may include the transmission of one or more SIP based commands with each command including a header with information concerning the routing of the request. For example the network may route a request to the routing device . In one particular embodiment the request is a SIP based command and includes an identifier of the requester in the header portion of the command. The requester identifier may be any character based identifier including telephone number name of the requester name of a group of company associated with the requester or other identifier. In response the routing device selects a conference bridge that is hosting or will host the collaboration conference identified in the request. The routing device then issues a SIP refer command to route the request from the ingress network of the requester to the selected conference bridge. The SIP refer command may include among other information an identification of the conference bridge in the header of the command. In response the network then routes the requester s request to the conference bridge for connection to the collaboration conference. The operation of the routing device and the conference bridge are described in more detail in relation to .

In this manner the network may be utilized by one or more participants to a collaboration or conferencing communication hosted on a conference bridge . In particular is a flowchart of a method for the routing device of the network to receive a request from one or more participants to join a collaboration session and route the participants to the proper conference bridge through which the collaboration is hosted. In general the operations described in relation to the flowchart of are performed by one or more components of the routing device as part of the telecommunications network .

Beginning with operation a participant to a conference communication may dial into or otherwise contact the network to join the conference using a communication device and or . For example the participant may dial a conference number and or enter a conference code to access the collaboration conference. The media gateway or other switching device routes the request from the participant to the routing device through the network . In the request is illustrated by the dashed line between the media gateway and the routing device . As should be appreciated in some IP networks the request may be a SIP based command routed to the routing device on a signaling plane and does not include the audio portion of the communication. The request is then received by the routing device as indicated by operation of .

Upon receipt the routing device determines in operation which of the available conference bridges associated with the network that is hosting or will host the collaboration conference requested by the participant. The routing device may utilize several factors to determine which conference bridge hosts the collaboration conference. In addition the routing device may communicate with one or more of the conference bridges associated with the network in operation . This communication between the routing device and the conference bridges is illustrated by the dashed lines between the routing device and the conference bridges in . Further in the embodiment in which the conference bridge is within the network the routing device would communicate directly with the conference bridge without going through a media gateway device .

In one embodiment the routing device communicates particularly with the app server component of the conference bridge to determine the appropriate collaboration bridge and to establish the collaboration conference. The app server component of the conference bridge may provide any information concerning the conference bridge to the routing device including number and types of available ports the technical capabilities of the conference bridge current collaboration conferences being hosted by the conference bridge and the like. In the SIP based conference bridge embodiment the routing device would communicate with the app server through the network interface unit . The app server then provisions the requested ports and notifies the routing device when such ports are available for the collaboration conference. In addition the app server provides the information of the conference bridge that may be utilized by the routing device to determine which conference bridge will host the collaboration conference.

In operation the routing device requests an open communication port from the conference bridge identified in operation . In the embodiment shown in the conference bridge may utilize a port in the DSP component of the conference bridge in response to the request sent by the routing device . The open port in the DSP component allows the participant to connect to the collaboration conference hosted by the conference bridge and participate in the conference. In addition the conference bridge may transmit an acknowledgement to the routing device from which the request originated to indicate that the requested communication is open. Again in IP based networks the request for available ports and acknowledgement may occur on a separate communication signal than the audio or video portion of the collaboration communication. Further a SIP based network the request may include certain information in the header of the request such as the master ID number and or the number of requested ports. The request made by the routing device to the conference bridge is illustrated in as the dashed line from the routing device to the media gateways associated with each conference bridge.

In operation the routing device receives the acknowledgement message from the conference bridge . In one embodiment the acknowledgement message contains information that identifies the open port to the routing device . For example in the SIP based embodiment the acknowledgment may include the IP address of the conference bridge in the header of the message. In response to receiving the acknowledgement message the routing device routes the participant s communication to the open port in the conferencing bridge in operation . In one embodiment the routing device facilitates the communication to the conference bridge such that the audio portion of the communication from the participant is no longer routed through the routing device. For example in a network that utilizes Session Initiation Protocol SIP the routing device may issue a SIP Refer command to route the participant communication to the conference bridge effectively removing the routing device from the communication flow. This refer message may include the IP address of the selected conference bridge in the header such that the network can route the communication to the selected conference bridge. The connection of the communication bypassing the routing device is illustrated in as the solid line connecting the media gateway associated with the participant s telephonic device and the media gateway associated with conference bridge . Thus through the use of the method outlined in the CCRS may receive a request from a participant of a collaboration conference and route the participant to the proper conference bridge that hosts the specific collaboration conference. In a similar manner collaboration conference participants may be routed to media gateway and conference bridge A such that multiple conferences may be occurring simultaneously through the network on multiple conferencing bridges .

The routing device may include a database configured to store information concerning an associated network one or more customers or users of the network identification numbers and or any other information useful by the routing device in routing billing load balancing disaster recover and the like for collaboration conferencing communications. For example the database may store identification numbers for individuals or groups of users to the network who have access to a collaboration conference feature. Associated with the identification numbers may be one or more telephone numbers access codes communication device identifications master identifications and routing rules associated with the users. The database may also store information associated with the routing and handling of collaboration conferencing such as accepted communication devices welcoming messages and operational rules for conducting the collaboration conference. In general any information that may be utilized by the routing device to route a collaboration communication and conduct the collaboration conference may be stored in one or more databases associated with the routing device.

The routing device also includes a web server or web application that utilizes one or more applications stored in an application server to execute the one or more applications. For example the web server may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs that execute any number of stored applications to perform the operations described herein. The web server may also enable the provisioning of the databases of the routing device by the application server . In addition the routing device may include a network interface unit as a proxy for receiving any type of information and or instructions from the network to route the communication. The network interface unit may also initiate one or more of the applications stored in the application server or database for execution by the routing device and or receive a request from the telecommunications network to initiate a collaboration conference.

Through the use of the described components the routing device provides added flexibility and features to collaboration conferencing not previously available. For example because each collaboration conference request is routed through the routing device or system of routing devices routing rules may be applied to a block of related requesters identified by a master ID number or customer number removing the need to update the routing rules for each member associated with the master ID or customer number. In addition the database of the routing device may maintain a control engine or state of a particular routing device that determines which conference bridge a collaboration conference occurs.

In operation the routing device may perform the operations of the flowchart of . In particular the routing device receives a request to establish a collaboration conference at the network interface in operation . The request may include information concerning the requestor such as requestor s telephone number and access code number. However although the operations of are described in reference to the request comprising the requestor s telephone phone number and access code number this is but one example of the information used by the CCRS to identify the requester. For example the request may include an identification of the requester s communication device in the request header such as a text string of the requester s personal computer. In another example the requester s name may be used as the identifier of the requester in the request. Thus any operation described herein utilizing the requester s telephone number and access code may be applied to other information contained in the request. For ease of instruction however the example of the telephone number and access code number is used.

Upon receiving the request the application server in concert with the web server utilizes the requestor s telephone number and access code number to possibly determine a group ID number for the requester in operation . In particular with the requester s information the application server accesses a lookup table stored in the database to match the telephone number and code access number to the group ID number. In some instances it is advantageous to associate a group ID number to a group of users of the collaboration conference system. For example through the group ID one or more routing rules may be applied to the entire group without the need to provide a routing rule for each individual member of the group. In some instances the group ID number may be associated with a customer ID number such that each member associated with a customer ID number is given the same group ID number and alterations to the customer s account with the network can be applied to each group member through alterations to routing rules associated with the group ID number.

In operation the application server may also associate a master ID reference or number to the collaboration conference request and stores the master ID reference or number in the database . The master ID reference or number is utilized by the network to track the collaboration conference and the participants to the conference and may be associated with the requester s information. With the master ID number associated with the request the application server again accesses the database to determine a state of the collaboration conference. In general if the collaboration conference has been established on a conference bridge such that the requester is a participant to the collaboration conference and not the initiator the database includes an identification of the conference bridge on which the collaboration conferencing is hosted. Alternatively if the request is to initiate a new collaboration conference the database includes a notification the request is a request for a new collaboration conference at which point the application server routes the request to a master CCRS device that executes a master control engine application to determine which conference bridge will host the conference. In this manner the components of the CCRS receive the request to join or initiate a collaboration conference and route the request to the proper conference bridge.

As mentioned above the database may include a subscriber information table that associates information of the requester such as a telephone number access code number or other identification or reference of a requestor to a group ID number for the routing device system. Thus several different requester references can be associated with the same group ID number such as a customer number. In addition one or more routing rules can be associated with a group ID number in the database . For example one routing rule may restrict all collaboration conferences for a particular group ID number to a particular conference bridge. This removes the need to manually change the routing rules for each individual requester for all of the members of a particular group ID number. Further the database of the routing device may be utilized by a control engine of the routing device system to store information utilized by the control engine such as associating a master ID number of a collaboration conference with an ID of the conference bridge on which the conference is hosted the status of a collaboration conference the start time of the collaboration conference the participant count of the conference the maximum number of participants that have attended the particular conference and the like. In general the database may include any information concerning collaboration conferences hosted by the telecommunications network.

The use of the SIP based conference bridge and in particular through the capability to pass information in a header of the SIP based command provides several advantages related to collaboration conferencing in a telecommunications network. Some of such features of the SIP based conference bridge are illustrated in . For example the conference bridge may provide reservationless conferencing between the multiple users of the system. This feature enables users to set up collaboration conferences dynamically such that the session is always on or available. This may remove the need to establish a new session whenever a new collaboration conference is desired. Similarly the SIP based collaboration conferencing allows for switching from one conference to another without the necessity of establishing a new session. In particular because the SIP based commands may contain an identification of the requester in the header portion of the command the requester s communication through the network is not necessarily tied to a dialed number. Rather the header identifier in a SIP reinivite command allows the requester to be shuttled between destination conferences as identified within the header of the SIP based commands.

Another feature provided by the SIP based collaboration conference bridge includes a web based moderator control generally through a graphical user interface GUI accessed through the moderators computer. The moderator control may allow a moderator of a collaboration session to control several features and the overall flow of the collaboration session. For example the control may provide information on the participants to the session may allow the moderator to control the features available to which participant establish a chairperson to the collaboration control the view that each participant sees on their respective computers mute one or more participants disconnect one or more participants etc. This feature is possible with the SIP based conference bridge as an identifier of the collaboration conference can be passed in the header portion of the SIP command. Thus the audio and or video packets can be tied to or otherwise associated with the web based packets such that the collaboration conference can include a web based moderator control in a manner that provides association between the various parts of the collaboration conference.

Similarly the SIP based conference bridge may allow for sub conferencing accessed and activated through the moderator control . Sub conferencing allows for the creation of one or more smaller collaborations from the participants of a larger collaboration. This feature may be activated by the moderator through the moderator control or by a user through another control feature. In general any configurable feature or information of the collaboration process may be made available to the moderator and controlled through the web based moderator control . Similarly the conference bridge may provide a web based operator assistance tool that provides aid and technical support to moderators or users of the IP based collaboration tool. Also the SIP based conference bridge may include a phone based participant control feature. This feature may be similar in use to the dual tone multi frequency DTMF signaling of traditional non IP based conference bridge that allow a participant to press one or more buttons on the participant s phone to control aspects of the collaboration conference.

In addition SIP based conference bridges provide high definition audio and video signals for increased quality of collaboration conferences. In general IP based telecommunication devices have the capability of higher quality audio and video transmission such that high definition audio and video signals may be provided by the SIP based conference bridge .

Security measures may also be provided in the SIP based conference bridge . Such security may allow for support for law enforcement requirements under the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies CALEA guidelines. Additionally the collaboration tool may include fraud monitoring encryption of command messages and control to ensure proper use of the conference bridge.

In addition to the additional features a SIP based conference bridge provides the use of SIP commands may also be used to transmit information concerning one or more collaboration conferences to aid in the establishing and hosting of the conferences. For example identification of the participants to a collaboration conference may be included in the header portion of a SIP command. Other information includes a conference identifier the role of a requester moderator or participant and other information to aid in transmission of the multimedia signals of the conference.

I O device may also include an input device not shown such as an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys for communicating information and or command selections to the processors . Another type of user input device includes cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processors and for controlling cursor movement on the display device.

System may include a dynamic storage device referred to as main memory or a random access memory RAM or other computer readable devices coupled to the processor bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processors . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processors . System may include a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the processor bus for storing static information and instructions for the processors . The system set forth in is but one possible example of a computer system that may employ or be configured in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

According to one embodiment the above techniques may be performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . These instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as a storage device. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory may cause processors to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with the software instructions. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure may include both hardware and software components.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Such media may take the form of but is not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

As described by utilizing one or more of the embodiments described above the routing device system may route a collaboration conference communication to an appropriate conference bridge based on any number of preferences or information about the requester and or communication network. In one example the routing device may employ one or more control or state engines that monitor or maintain a status of the collaboration conferences occurring over the network. The control engines maintain information about each collaboration conference such as a master identification number for the conference a status such as active inactive temporary or unknown the conference bridge on which the conference is hosted a start time for the conference a participant count a maximum participant count and a stop time for the conference among other information. In general the control engines may obtain or receive any information about the conference and maintain a record of the information for use by the routing device system. As such each control engine in the routing device may be connected to or otherwise associated with the conference bridges associated with the communications network to provide and receive information concerning the collaboration conferences of the network. In one embodiment the control engines may be an application executed by the application server with the information or data stored in the database . The operation of the control engine in relation to the routing device is described in more detail in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 659 titled METHOD FOR ROUTING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Related features are also described in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 636 titled Central Conferencing Routing Server which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The routing device may utilize the information maintained by the control engines to perform several of the functions related to the routing of conference communications described above. For example a request received by the routing device to join an existing collaboration conference may be routed to the correct conference bridge by referring to the information stored by the control engines. As mentioned above the control engines maintain a status of each conference and the conference bridge on which the conference occurs. With this information the routing device may appropriately route any additional participants to the correct conference bridge. Such information may also aid in routing requests for a new collaboration conference to a suitable conference bridge including based on network performance and user preferences.

In one embodiment described above the routing device routes the conference request to a conference bridge by requesting the conference bridge for an available port on the bridge. If the conference request is a request to establish a collaboration conference the request may be for a plurality of available ports to host the conference. The allocation of available ports associated with the conference bridge for hosting the conference may be handled by a request from the routing device or by a control server associated with the conference bridge. In either case available ports of the conference bridge may be made available in response to the conference request. In other embodiments selection of a conference bridge may be accomplished using domain name system DNS resolution techniques such as round robin selection or intelligent algorithms that take into location and or proximity considerations e.g. Anycast load on the bridges popularity or any other known policy. Such techniques may either replace or supplement the routing protocols as part of the conference bridge selection process.

As mentioned above the routing device system may include a plurality of routing devices or control engines executing on several application servers. As such the network may determine a master control engine application to be executed on one of the routing devices that is tasked with routing new collaboration conference requests. In one embodiment the master control engine may be determined by connection criteria. For example each control engine of the routing devices may maintain a total number of bridges that are connected to all of the control engines with which the local control engine is communicating. In this embodiment the control engine that sees the highest total number of bridges is selected as the master control engine and handles all collaboration conference requests. However if more than one control engine sees the highest total number of bridge connections the control engine with the highest number of local connections between the control engines with the highest total number is selected as the master control engine. If no single control engine is selected by the first two criteria than a prioritized system ID may be employed to select the master control engine. It should be appreciated that this is but one example of a method for selecting the master control engine and any method to select a master control engine from the operating control engines may be employed. The use of a master control engine to determine which conference bridge a new collaboration conference is established may aid in preventing a split conference being established on multiple bridges. Additionally any control engine of the routing device may act as the master control engine based on any criteria including the example mentioned above. Some delay may be incorporated into the switching the master control engine from one engine to another to prevent bouncing from one engine to another rapidly.

In addition to the master control engine feature the routing device system may also incorporate a priority table or list into a decision process when determining which conference bridge to host the collaboration conference. The information or data within the priority table may be stored in one or more databases of the routing device. In general the priority list is associated with a customer number or other identifying number of a requester that lists one or more conference bridges that may host a collaboration conference and a priority associated with each conference bridge in the list. For example the priority list for one customer may include three conference bridges ranked in order by the highest priority to the lower priority. In some embodiments a plurality of conference bridges may be grouped into a single priority group. Upon receipt of a request for a collaboration conference the master control engine may identify the requester access the priority list associated with the requester and select a conference bridge based on the priority list. As discussed in more detail below the priority of the conference bridges for any requester may be based on several criteria. The operation of the load balancing and priority routing in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 678 titled LOAD BALANCING IN A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

In one example of such criteria one or more conference bridges may be assigned a higher priority based on the geographical location of the conference bridge. For various reasons a conference bridge located in a particular area may be preferable for hosting a collaboration conference from a particular requester. For example a conference bridge located nearer the requester may be preferable to one located a far distance as the connection speed and clarity may be improved for a conference bridge located nearer the requester. In this situation the priority list for that requester may be updated or created to provide priority to the conference bridge near the requester such that upon determining which conference bridge to host the collaboration conference the master state engine may first consider the higher prioritized bridge.

Similarly a higher priority may be given to a conference bridge that provides additionally requested features for the collaboration conference. For example the customer to the network may request a collaboration conference occur in wideband audio or other features that require an IP based conference bridge. In this situation an IP based conference bridge may be given a higher priority than non IP based conference bridges in an attempt to meet the requests of the requester. Other priority criteria may be the size or other network requirements of the conference. For example a requester may routinely request a high volume conference such that the routing device may associate a conference bridge that handles larger conferences conferences with more participants a higher priority for that particular requester. In general however any information or criteria may be considered when the routing device prepares the priority list associated with a requester.

Another advantage that the priority list provides is in the situation when a conference bridge is placed offline or suffers a failure. For example a scheduled maintenance on one of the conference bridges may be desired by a network administrator. Thus conferences currently being hosted on the conference bridge for repair may be maintained by the CCRS but new conferences may be directed to other conference bridges in an effort to remove the conferences from the selected conference bridge. To accomplish this the CCRS may remove the selected conference bridge from the priority lists for each requester. Thus when a request is received and the CCRS consults the priority list for the requester the selected bridge is not an available option. However the master control engine may continue to direct requests for ongoing conferences to the proper conference bridge. The operation of disaster recovery in relation to the CCRS is described in more detail in concurrently filed nonprovisional application Ser. No. 13 708 689 titled DISASTER RECOVERY WITH A CENTRAL CONFERENCING ROUTING SERVER which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The CCRS may perform a similar operation when a conference bridge enters a failure state. In this situation the failed bridge may be removed from the priority list for each requester. In addition all requests received by the CCRS to join an existing conference may be sent to another conference bridge. However this may create a situation where a conference is split between two conference bridges. In this situation the CCRS may generate a notice to a network administrator of the potential for a split conference so that the administrator may direct each participant of the split conference to a single operating conference bridge. In some embodiments the recovery of a split conference into a united conference may be performed automatically by the CCRS upon detection. In addition upon bringing the failed bridge back online the CCRS may throttle the conferences placed on the bridge to prevent an overload of the bridge.

The routing device includes other features that may aid the network in transmitting collaboration conferences. For example one embodiment of the routing device may route an internet or web connection that is associated with the collaboration conference to the same conference bridge that hosts the conference to maintain continuity between the related web application and the conference. Further the routing device may maintain a list of technical capabilities of each conference bridge to ensure that particular technical requests are met. For example one of the conference bridges may operate using SIP or another IP type protocol. Such conference bridges provide additional technical features over traditional TDM based conference bridges such as high definition audio video and audio combination and the like. Thus in response to a request for a collaboration conference to include particular technical features the routing device may route the collaboration conference to a conference bridge that supports the technical features of the conference.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include various steps which are described in this specification. The steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. Various modifications and alterations to the described embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings herein. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous systems arrangements and methods which although not explicitly shown or described herein embody the principles of the invention and are thus within the spirit and scope of the present invention. From the above description and drawings it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular embodiments shown and described are for purposes of illustrations only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. References to details of particular embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

