---

title: Compact flat panel color calibration system
abstract: A compact flat panel color calibration system includes a lens prism optic able to pass a narrow, perpendicular, and uniform cone angle of incoming light to a spectrally non-selective photodetector. The calibration system also includes a microprocessor operable to determine the luminance of the display based upon the information gathered by the photodetector. A software module included in the calibration system is then operable to process the luminance information in order to adjust the flat panel display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08471841&OS=08471841&RS=08471841
owner: RPX Corporation
number: 08471841
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120511
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 181 773 filed Jul. 29 2008 and now U.S. Pat. No. 8 179 405 issued May 15 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 426 469 filed Jun. 26 2006 and now U.S. Pat. No. 7 405 742 issued Jul. 29 2008 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 053 068 filed Feb. 7 2005 and now U.S. Pat. No. 7 068 263 issued Jun. 27 2006 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 013 576 filed Dec. 10 2001 and now U.S. Pat. No. 6 853 387 issued Feb. 7 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 254 432 filed Dec. 8 2000. The disclosures of each of the above are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates in general to the field of photodetector devices and more particularly to a flat panel color calibration system.

Conventional radiometric or colorimetric sensor systems employ either spectrally selective or nonselective photodetectors to quantify the luminance level of the light that reaches them. Such sensor systems have been used to calibrate Cathode Ray Tube CRT displays. To ensure accuracy these sensor systems must maintain the sensor elements in contact with or at a uniform fixed distance from the display. A common implementation of such a sensor system utilizes a suction cup in order to firmly adhere the sensor to the CRT screen that has the additional effect of blocking out any ambient light from the sensor. For Liquid Crystal Displays LCDs however the colorimetry of the display is dependent in part on the optical path length of the display which is the product of the birefringence of the liquid crystal material and the cell gap spacing. Since the glass of a LCD panel is relatively thin when compared to that of a CRT the force of the suction used to attach that type of sensor would cause spacing changes that would change the luminous intensity of the light in that area and corrupt the accuracy of the very measurement that such a sensor would be attempting to make.

Unlike CRTs both the luminance and the wavelength of light emitted from LCD flat panels vary depending on the angle at which they are measured or collected. This poses a problem for traditional color calibration sensors that all assume any portion of the light measured is representative of the whole. Therefore it is desirable to provide a sensor system capable of accurately calibrating LCD devices that does not alter the cell gap spacing and collects luminance information orthogonal to the surface of the glass and with a narrow acceptance angle.

From the foregoing it may be appreciated by those skilled in the art that a need has arisen for a compact flat panel color calibration system. In accordance with one preferred embodiment of the present invention a system for calibrating the color of a flat panel display is provided that substantially eliminates or greatly reduces disadvantages and problems associated with conventional display calibration techniques.

According to an embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system for calibrating a display that includes a lens prism optic that operates to pass a narrow perpendicular and uniform cone angle of incoming light a photodetector a microprocessor operable to determine the luminance of the display in order to derive the color temperature and firmware operable to adjust the display in accordance with the microprocessor determination.

The present invention provides various technical advantages over conventional display calibration techniques. For example one technical advantage enables accurate measurements of a Liquid Crystal Display LCD by employing a lens prism optic that provides a narrow and uniform beam of light to the photodetector system. Another technical advantage is to augment the calibration measurement by allowing the system to compensate for the effects of ambient light that might be glaring off the surface of the display. Other technical advantages may be readily ascertainable by those skilled in the art from the following figures description and claims.

Scaler board of Flat Panel Monitor includes an Inter Integrated Control I2C input interface from host computer to manage several components via independent buses. These include a ColorLock microcontroller which handles executive control of color management functions a backlight inverter accessed through an IC interface and an Extended Display Identification EDID EEPROM which contains colorimetric profile information for the specific liquid crystal module . A Transition Minimized Differential Signal TMDS Receiver accepts video information from graphics interface port residing within host computer and forwards it to a gmZ3 scaler chip which adapts the input graphics into a resolution format compatible with liquid crystal module . A Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA device multiplexes user inputs from the OSD board through EEPROM device onto the main display data path via CMOS device to provide menu driven settings of various liquid crystal module functions. FPGA device also controls manual dimming of the backlight from an OSD panel by controlling inverter through I2C interface . In one embodiment control data and control commands are received into a level shifter serial port from a serial output within host computer . In this embodiment serial port is RS 232 but may also be of the Universal Serial Bus USB type. 12V system power is provided through an input connector for an external plug .

Flat panel monitor supports non native resolutions through an operation known as scaling. Scaling adapts the input graphics mode into a resolution that meets the stringent timing requirements of the VESA timing specification. Flat panel monitor has the ability to adjust the displayed image automatically for the user. In general the embedded scaler chip analyzes the input timing provided by host graphics card through TMDS receiver and adjusts the liquid crystal module to optimal image quality. These extensive scaling and image color adjustment capabilities demand an intuitive user interface. On a display product on screen controls appear superimposed over the regular image. Executive color control in our embodiment resides within an 8051 based microcontroller . Microcontroller has an 8 bit 8051 architecture that provides flexible general purpose I O built in program memory RAM and other peripheral devices. The low cost of microcontroller is also appropriate for a single calibration technique Colorlock. FPGA device multiplexes the OSD board data onto the main display datapath. FPGA device also controls backlight dimming for the system. This control is accomplished via SPI bus communication with the microcontroller . Via an included EDID EEPROM microcontroller is able to perform an IC master read of this device and obtain the panel s serial number for display on the information screen provided by OSD board . Certain parameters are stored on a global memory page whereas other settings are saved in timing mode specific memory pages.

Photodetector is comprised of a linear silicon photodetector an exemplary type of which is an OPT101P photodiode manufactured by Burr Brown. The OPT101P operates from 2.7V to 36V has a high responsivity of 0.45 A W at 650 nm and a quiescent current of 120 A. Photodetector is preferably spectrally non selective and thus not a colorimeter. However photodetector can effectively function as a colorimeter because the flat panel make up of liquid crystal module has Red Green and Blue filtration on its light output. Photodetector works in conjunction with microcontroller residing in flat panel monitor in accordance with software instructions from an application residing in host computer to calibrate liquid crystal module by setting its luminance color temperature and gamma profile. Photodetector with biasing circuits and an on chip transimpedance amplifier whose output voltage increases linearly with light intensity eliminates stray capacitance that can cause errors from leakage current noise pick up and gain peaking. Photodetector preferably operates in a photoconductive mode to take advantage of excellent linearity and low dark current. Photodetector has a correlation to the actinic response of the human eye. Sensor system is designed to perform its calibration function at a signal level centered about a count of 235 with a variance of 3 counts or about 1 sigma. This provides a 2 times guardband or a 7 count allowable variance which equates to an error of one E the smallest change in three dimensional color space detectable by the human eye.

In a preferred embodiment the characteristics of the linear silicon photodetector include low sensitivity in the 400 nm Blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum but a relatively about six times higher response in the 700 nm to 900 nm Red to Infrared portion. To level out the sensitivity of the sensor element color filter is placed between sensor element and lens . A narrow band green filter may be used to emulate the green channel of the green primary of liquid crystal module in order to achieve speed and accuracy necessary to perform colorimetric calibrations for all R G and B channels. In a preferred embodiment of the invention color filter is comprised of a Light Steel Blue 720 cyan filter manufactured by GAM. Color filter is operable to equalize the signal to level off the performance of photodetector so that when photodetector is calibrated to operate in the Green spectral region correct sensitivity levels are maintained in the Red and Blue regions as well. The GAM Light Steel Blue 720 cyan filter very nearly compensates for the OPT101 s transmission characteristics both with a midpoint relative response value of 0.35 at 580 nm. This results in a very uniform output response from 440 nm to 640 nm. Should signal strength need to be further attenuated multiple layers of the color filter may be utilized. For example two blue green filters may be used one for chromatic sensitivity and the other for setting the proper luminance signal range.

The linear silicon photodetector will respond accordingly to whatever wavelength of light reaches it after passing through color filter . To obtain the most accurate measurements for color calibration purposes the angle at which light is measured from a flat panel liquid crystal module must be kept small. Sensor system operates to provide a narrow and uniform cone angle of incoming light which is presented to photodetector . This narrow and uniform cone angle enables sensor system to accurately measure liquid crystal module without the need to maintain a constant or critical distance from the surface of liquid crystal module . It also allows the sensor to be used in an off contact mode in order to measure the amount of veiling glare on the front surface of liquid crystal module so that the software application can compensate for its effect on an image. In a preferred embodiment lens is a solid optical lens system comprised of a front spherical surface through which the light passes in the manner of a Total Internal Reflection TIR 45 degree mirror. Light passing through lens is turned to pass through the side of lens and through the color filter to photodetector . In a preferred embodiment photodetector is located at the infinity focus of lens . In one implementation the lens is injection molded from polymethylmethacrylate PMMA plastic material and has an index of refraction of 1.489.

By implementing lens in this manner a narrow and radiometrically constant measurement geometry of incoming light is presented to photodetector . Lens provides a long focal length with a relatively small head configuration to keep the effective viewing angle at plus or minus two degrees 2 regardless of the distance of sensor system or its attitude with respect to the front surface of liquid crystal module . Advantages made possible by this design include a sensor system being able to make more accurate and enhanced measurements of a liquid crystal module because the angular dependency is removed. The distance between photodetector and liquid crystal module is no longer critical because a uniform cone angle is always sampled. In a preferred embodiment elastomeric or foam cushion is included in sensor system to block out ambient light which might affect the accuracy of the measurement. Cushion also uniformly distributes the contact pressure of housing out and away from the measuring spot at which sensor system is aimed to reduce cell gap changes and sheer forces which might disturb the anchoring of liquid crystal modules. After a calibration operation sensor system can be used in the off contact mode to measure the amount of veiling glare caused by the ambient light. This is particularly useful in image proofing operations for digitally created content where the content creator and the publisher or printer reside in greatly differing ambient light environments. Sensor system is also operable in off contact mode for use to calibrate individual sections of large video walls where contact measurements may be physically difficult to obtain.

During the addressing process for Thin Film Transistor TFT LCDs a signal voltage is applied to the source electrode to be transmitted through the drain electrode to the liquid crystal layer and a capacitor. Even though the function of this capacitor is to dissipate its charge throughout the remainder of the frame cycle there is still some 10 to 15 decay of the magnitude of the charge. This results in a slight non uniformity of the transmission level or grayscale level or color of the pixels during a cycle. It is this instability or frame flicker that can be interpreted as noise in other types of colorimetric devices. As a reference this effect is much more pronounced in CRTs where there is a 100 decay in the light emission of a pixel for the greater part of a frame cycle.

Errors are inherent to all digital sampling systems from signals with frequencies above the sampling rate of the Analog Digital A D converter . This aliasing phenomena can make the signal appear as a low frequency distortion if left unfiltered and cannot be removed by post acquisition processing. Filter circuit is applied to the signal from the photodetector prior to the digitizing process to perform an anti aliasing function and secure the accuracy of the signal. In order to maximize the stability and accuracy of the sensor system the electrical circuit design of circuit board incorporates various elements into filter circuit . Two operational amplifiers op amps and and several resistors and capacitors are used to form an active low pass network Bessel filter. The feedback loop includes two gain stages that are routed back into filter circuit to produce a sharp cutoff with minimum phase distortion a fast setting time and a very high rejection ratio. This allows filter circuit to stabilize the signals from photodetector and effectively deal with whatever flicker is in liquid crystal module . The 4 pole Bessel filter provided by filter circuit eliminates errors by removing signals with frequencies above the A D sampling rate. Filter circuit has a monotonically decreasing magnitude response and is characterized by an almost constant group delay across the entire bandwidth in order to preserve the wave shape of the signals being filtered. Insensitive to environmental changes and aging filter circuit preferably has an 80 db cutoff at 60 Hz.

In a preferred embodiment large dynamic range micropower dual op amps and are used that feature a high bandwidth to power consumption ratio with true rail to rail inputs and outputs. Op amps and can achieve a 200 kHz gain bandwidth product and are unity gain stable while driving any capacitive load and do not suffer from midswing common mode rejection degradation or crossover nonlinearity. A series resistor and a single turn potentiometer for fine tuning the signal range are placed between the negative input and output of op amp while another resistor is placed between the negative input of op amp and ground. These elements collectively control the range of signals from the photodetector to A D converter in the following manner Resistor divided by Resistor plus 1 sets the Minimum Gain while Potentiometer plus Resistor multiplied by Resistor plus 1 sets the Maximum Gain. By this method photodetector may be calibrated over a broad range of frequencies with an attenuation of 17 bits which is equivalent to a signal to noise ratio of 10 000 decibels dB down.

The flat panel liquid crystal module is typically illuminated by two sets of colored lamps identified as Source Red and Source Blue each with a different spectral output. The light from each of these sources is filtered by Red Green and Blue absorption filters within liquid crystal module . Illumination from Source produces a white point R G B 255 that has a correlated color temperature of approximately 3 650 K. Illumination from source produces a white point color temperature of approximately 12 300 K. Sensor system allows both the screen luminance and the color temperature to be independently set by adjusting the intensity of each illumination source. The white point of liquid crystal module can theoretically be set to a range of color temperatures from 3 600 K to 12 000 K. Over this restricted range of Daylight white illuminants a vector representation of the inverse of the correlated color temperature has been determined that varies linearly with the chromaticity coordinates. The calibration and setup of a dual primary monitor can be simplified for sources with very stable chromaticities. The output of each source need not be absolute if its chromaticity is stable. Such stability enables the use of the present sensor design that is calibrated for the Green channel where the bandgap energy is most stable.

In order to function as an absolute luminance sensor sensor system is calibrated using a known transfer standard. An example of a known transfer standard is a Minolta CS 100 Colorimeter. A flat panel display with adjustable luminance and a Colortron Spotlight Precision Light Table are also used in the process as the light sources. The luminance response of the CS 100 Colorimeter has been set by the manufacturer to a standard lamp and its chromaticity coordinates have been adjusted using a spectral radiation standard lamp at 3111 K calibrated by the Electro Technical Laboratory of the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry. In a preferred embodiment a display uses a red and blue lamp pair for illumination. The intensity of each lamp pair may be changed to set the color temperature and luminance of the display. The calibrated target luminance for the display is 200 Candelas mand the target color temperature is a Daylight white modified Blackbody temperature of D55. It is preferable to achieve the luminance target than the color temperature target.

After achieving the appropriate targets red and blue signals are set to zero so that only the green signals are applied to photodetector . The potentiometer P in filter circuit is adjusted to achieve a value of 235 counts from A D converter . The voltage at the output of amplifier is checked to make sure it is in saturation. A 0.3 neutral density is placed in front of photodetector to determine whether the reading drops to 117 or 118 counts for verification of saturation. If the signal does not drop photodetector has too much light falling on it and the neutral density filtration must be increased. If increased filtration is needed all previously selected trial samples are recalibrated. The count for the Red and Blue screens are then checked and if they exceed 240 the spectral filtration is decreased in the Red and Blue spectral regions. If the count falls below 128 the spectral filtration is increased in the appropriate region. Once sensitivities are set to the proper operating ranges sensor system is ready for general production.

Along with calibration software module in host computer calibration software module is operable to calibrate liquid crystal module by setting its luminance color temperature and gamma profile. The task of calibration software module is to determine the color temperature of the flat panel liquid crystal module in response to luminance measured by microcontroller whose lamps do not linearly track with the drive signal by using only a spectrally non selective photodetector . Calibration software module measures the gamma or luminance response of liquid crystal module and can store information in an International Color Consortium ICC profile used by the International Color Microcode standard for color encoding. Since the lamp drivers are nonlinear the initial state of the system is unknown. Calibration software module uses the color mixing law and provides a conversion for the relative color vectors to chromaticity coordinates in order to permit a determination of the relative contributions of the Red Green and Blue channels of luminance Source pair and luminance Source pair . The tristimulus values produced by the Red Green and Blue color filters are stable. Therefore the colorimetric output of each individual filter of liquid crystal module can be determined.

The initial state and the signal linearity from the alternating current AC lamp inverter power source can be determined in the following manner. First the illumination levels for both Source and Source are set to the minimum and the signal level is recorded. Second the illumination output from Source is increased in four steps from the minimum to the maximum and the signal levels are recorded. Next the illumination output from Source is increased in four steps from the minimum to the maximum and the signal levels are recorded. Finally the difference in the signals may be used to map the outputs of the two sources as a function of the input signal. From the starting tristimulus values the initial and differential state of the illumination sources can be determined. Appendix A shows an example of the calibration determination. Once calibration software module in host computer along with microcontroller has made this determination calibration software can set the luminance and color temperature of the liquid crystal module . Given a required correlated color temperature the chromaticity coordinates for that point as well as the necessary lamp drive voltages for a required luminance can be determined based on the fact that each illumination source contributes a known proportion of the colorimetry to the mixture. Additionally adjustments to the display colorimetric settings may be made by bypassing the graphics card in host computer and accessing microcontroller directly by means of manually interacting with OSD board . In a preferred embodiment a user is able to provide input to calibration software module and receive output from microcontroller by means of GUI . Calibration software module should also provide information by means of GUI to enable a user to generate an International Color Consortium ICC profile for liquid crystal module preset colorimetric values and create and store custom user settings. Calibration software module can also calculate correlated color temperature and report brightness to plus or minus two percent. Calibration software module integrates over several cycles for improved stability.

Sensor system has an optical path with spectral filter elements that provide the proper colorimetric properties that linearly correlate a standard signal with the luminance of liquid crystal module in the Green spectral region. From this correlation a relationship can be established with the other primary channels. Using a spectrally nonselective photodetector the chromaticity of the primary color filters in liquid crystal module can be determined from measuring their luminance. Moreover by calibrating the white point all the gray scale points and RGB color primaries are matched as well. Since the backlight is common to all colors in liquid crystal module and varies in a known stable way within the whole range setting one primary color can effectively set all the others. Thus setting the gamma response curve for white can also set the gamma for the RGB color channels. Similarly setting the gamma response curve for the RGB color channels can also set the gamma for all the gray scale levels of white. For a cathode ray tube device the different primaries may require different gamma corrections as the setting of one primary color may be affected by an interaction from the other primary colors.

Sensor system may also be used to correct an on screen image for unwanted light reflected from the surface of liquid crystal module . By using the spectrally nonselective photodetector and color filter within sensor system in an off contact mode a quantitative correction factor to the gamma setting of liquid crystal module may be obtained to maintain the appearance of an image on two or more spatially separated monitors despite the relative ambient viewing conditions.

Liquid crystal module operating in ambient conditions suffers from the external lighting in the environment to some degree. This external luminance can cause stray reflections when it strikes the surface of liquid crystal module which in turn causes desaturation of the colorimetry of an image or even text as well as adversely affecting its contrast. These stray reflections can lower the gamma profile of liquid crystal module . Sensor system when held approximately twenty inches above the surface of liquid crystal module can measure the ambient light from liquid crystal module and correct for it by appropriately modifying the gamma response curve of liquid crystal module so that the saturation and hue of the original image is maintained. Calibration software module will accomplish this correction by applying a secondary gamma curve as a transfer function correction. For example the gamma curve will be increased in the case of bright ambient conditions. In another preferred embodiment the gamma correction can be accomplished by directly adjusting the bias voltages driving liquid crystal module . Because desaturation from veiling glare is caused by the magnitude of the reflected luminance from liquid crystal module the white point setting of the dual spectrum lamps will not be affected. Since sensor system integrates all the reflected room light reaching the viewer of liquid crystal module a first order correction at the veiling glare problem is obtained. Additionally in the process of designing a filter to equalize the response of the photodetector a major portion of the infrared energy is eliminated which would affect the accuracy of the veiling glare adjustment. All of this is accomplished with a single non spectrally selective photodetector .

Video or static images or scenes are created edited stored and then presented on media according to the values for hue saturation and color temperature with which the director of photography author or editor imparts to them. Once they are so imprinted and or duplicated no further changes to the above identified properties for individual portions of the content are possible without changing those properties for all the content. The viewing experience of any video or still imagery may be enhanced through the use of dynamic control of the color temperature of electronic or film media through the use of a dual or multi spectrum lighting source. The content author or editor may store a discrete track of color temperature values in synchronization with visual digital media such as Digital Video DV High Definition Television HDTV eCinema Digital Video Disk DVD as well as video stored in QuickTime AVI RealVideo or other formats. It is also foreseeable that this method of enhancement would work favorably in other formats including vector animation such as Flash presentation software such as Microsoft PowerPoint slide show software tagged static image file formats such as JPEG or GIF images in web pages PhotoCD TIFF PhotoShop and other formats.

Different color temperature values may be encoded in a track or other suitable memory location within a given storage medium that are synchronized to appropriate scenes or images within the visual content being presented. Calibration software module is operable to control liquid crystal module and transmit the encoded color temperature values over a video signal cable DDC serial interface Universal Serial Bus USB interface or other suitable interface protocol. This information can then be detected by image drivers residing in liquid crystal module that are capable of having color temperature controlled independently of tristimulus image data via the video signal cable DDC serial USB or other control mechanism. Some standards have been developed that encode critical color calibration parameters about the creation or printing of a given image within the body of data that describes that image. Flat panel color calibration system however includes a backlit liquid crystal module with adjustable color temperature data wherein color temperature of the liquid crystal module can be adjusted in a dynamic manner. Calibration software module can provide dynamic adjustment of color temperature of different frames of the displayed image for both playback and authoring environments. In addition standard file formats such as TIFF QuickTime and others can be extended to include color temperature data information.

It should be noted that in addition to the dynamic adjustment of color temperature the brightness of liquid crystal module can also be synchronized to the static or video image content being displayed. Calibration software module can be instructed to examine the gray scale content of a frame or series of frames to compute in one embodiment an arithmetic mean of the dynamic brightness level. Acting upon instructions from a given set of parameters calibration software module can transmit control information from graphics card through backlight application programming interface to backlight driver to dynamically set the appropriate brightness level for liquid crystal module by controlling the voltage levels to lamp source and lamp source in tandem. In another embodiment this information may be pre recorded on a separate information track for access during playback of the video content.

It should also be noted that in concert with the dynamic adjustment of white balance and brightness calibration software module may also be instructed to dynamically adjust the gamma profile of the original video image according to a given set of parameters such as those contained in a look up table memory location within host computer or graphics card . By coincidentally lowering the backlight brightness level of liquid crystal module and decreasing the gamma function so that the same luminance level is maintained greater color visual impact may be realized from a static or video image. In another embodiment the change in gamma can be accomplished without loss of gray scale resolution by dynamically applying and adjusting a set of gamma controlling voltages to the DC reference circuit of liquid crystal module to change its gamma response profile. Because the input video signals are not affected the same color resolution and dynamic range are maintained.

Flat panel calibration system provides a low cost high performance capability to calibrate display devices and extend the serviceable life of display devices. By being able to adjust a display device to a known standard a content creator director of photography and printer publisher can effectively consummate a proofing process in minutes over great distances. Color temperature and gamma savvy versions of DVD players and other software applications may also be developed and accommodated. While the present sensor system takes advantage of adjustable white balance and adaptive gamma technology it can be utilized for both standard LCD and CRT devices as well.

Thus it is apparent that there has been provided in accordance with the present invention a compact flat panel color calibration system that satisfies the above described advantages. Although the present invention has been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations may be readily ascertainable by those skilled in the art and may be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims.

