---

title: User interface screen presentation prioritization
abstract: A system and method for user interface screen presentation prioritization is provided. The display of a plurality of panes may be determined based on either priorities of each pane received in messages or based on combined weightings of each pane based on a weighting provided by a user and a weighting provided by a content source. The display of the panes may relocate the panes and/or change the size of the panes based on changed priorities of each pane or based on changed combined weighting of each pane. The panes may comprise selectable items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304647&OS=09304647&RS=09304647
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09304647
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 480 677 filed on Jun. 8 2009 entitled User Interface Screen Presentation Prioritization by Jesse Kates et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Widgets are small interactive software applications embedded into electronic devices that may link a device to external sources of content. Devices display an interface of the widgets and content received by the widgets. Widgets may be installed and executed within a web page. Further widgets may be embedded in any of a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a set top box a kiosk a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player and other electronic devices. Users may download and install widgets from providers of content. Widgets may alternatively be created by a user. As freestanding bundles of software code that may run independently of the web page in which they are embedded widgets may be added to already existing web pages to enhance the appeal of web pages. As packaged applications widgets may be readily shared by users and transported in a variety of manners. Examples of widgets include simple clocks stock market tracking tickers news broadcasters weather information providers sports score providers and games. More complex widgets can gather information from a variety of sources and present the information to users in interesting and useful ways. Widgets may save content locally or may display a constant stream of media received from network sources.

In an embodiment a user interface screen presentation prioritization system is provided. The system comprises an electronic communication device and an application that when executed on the personal electronic communication device receives a first message containing a first priority associated with a first selectable item of a display screen of the electronic communication device a second priority associated with a second selectable item of the display screen and a third priority associated with a third selectable item of the display screen. The system also positions the first selectable item the second selectable item and the third selectable item in the display based on the first priority the second priority and the third priority. The system also receives a second message indicating a change in the first priority and changes the displayed size of the first selectable item. The system also relocates the second selectable item and the third selectable item in the display to adjust for the change to the displayed size of the first selectable item.

In another embodiment a processor implemented method of user interface screen presentation prioritization is provided. The method comprises an electronic device receiving a first weight associated with a first selectable item a second weight associated with a second selectable item and a third weight associated with a third selectable item from a first interested party. The method also comprises the electronic device receiving a fourth weight associated with the first selectable item from a second interested party receiving a fifth weight associated with the second selectable item from a third interested party and receiving a sixth weight associated with the third selectable item from a fourth interested party. The method also comprises the electronic device combining the first weight with the fourth weight to determine a first combined weight combining the second weight with the fifth weight to determine a second combined weight and combining the third weight with the sixth weight to determine a third combined weight. The method also comprises the electronic device positioning the first selectable item the second selectable item and the third selectable item in the display based on the first combined weight the second combined weight and the third combined weight.

In another embodiment a processor implemented method of user interface screen presentation prioritization is provided. The method comprises an electronic device combining a first weight with a fourth weight to determine a first combined weight combining a second weight with a fifth weight to determine a second combined weight and combining a third weight with a sixth weight to determine a third combined weight the first weight and the fourth weight associated with a first selectable object the second weight and the fifth weight associated with a second selectable object and third weight and the sixth weight associated with a third selectable object the first second and third weights received from a first interested party the fourth weight received from a second interested party the fifth weight received from a third interested party and the sixth weight received from a fourth interested party. The method also comprises the electronic device positioning the first selectable item the second selectable item and the third selectable item in a display of the electronic device based on the first combined weight the second combined weight and the third combined weight. The method also comprises the electronic device receiving a message from the second interested party the message containing a seventh weight associated with the first selectable item the seventh weight replacing the fourth weight. The method also comprises the electronic device combining the first weight with the seventh weight to determine a fourth combined weight and the electronic device changing the display size of the first selectable item in response to the determination of the fourth combined weight. The method also comprises the electronic device relocating the second selectable item and the third selectable item in the display to permit the change in display size of the first selectable item.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Several embodiments of a widget prioritization system permit a device to display electronic widgets in a prioritized manner with the widgets potentially changing in appearance as content updates are received. When a content source provides an important update or an alert the widget associated with the content may temporarily expand in size change color or display a different image. The other widgets in the display may be temporarily reduced in size. In an embodiment the widgets that are reduced in size may be displaced on the display to an outer edge while maintaining their relative position. For example a widget displayed in the lower left corner of the display may be reduced in size but remain in the lower left corner of the display.

Prioritization of widgets describes the general importance assigned by users to content delivered through widgets. A higher prioritization may be assigned by a user for example to a widget delivering stock market alerts than a widget delivering sports news updates. The general importance assigned to a widget and or the content presented by the widget by a user may be subjective. For example a first user may place a higher general importance on a widget delivering stock quote content than on a widget delivering sports scores content while a second user may place a higher general importance on the widget delivering sports scores content than on the widget delivering stock quote content. The initial positioning and sizing of widgets in a display associated to a user for example a display of a mobile phone or a display of a desktop computer associated with the user may reflect these priorities assigned by the user. A content provider delivering information updates to widgets may additionally provide weights to specific content provided. The content provider may make a determination of the importance or criticality of an item of content for example a change in a stock price an update to a sports score or a weather event. The initial general priority weighting by a user of the overall importance of the subject matter accessible from a widget is combined with the provider s weighting of a specific item of content the provider is delivering via the widget. The present disclosure teaches the temporary expansion or other changing of color of widgets to call attention to alert conditions. The present disclosure also teaches the balancing of more than one alert or heightened condition in need of attention while maintaining accessibility to other widgets remaining in a normal state.

Portable electronic devices such as mobile telephones are limited in size and may not be able to display all widgets in a single view particularly when widgets may temporarily expand in size. In an embodiment the present disclosure teaches the maintaining of the originally chosen widget positioning even when some widgets change in size and temporarily move partially or completely from the primary display area of the device. Maintaining relative positioning of all widgets regardless of temporary size or other changes in one or several widgets may allow widgets that have temporarily moved from view to be more easily located. Indicators such as small arrows in the margins of the display may point to the location of a widget that has moved from immediate view. A temporarily moved widget may be accessed by scrolling across to the appropriate panel and finding the widget there. It may be possible to determine the direction in which a widget has been moved by knowing that relative positioning of widgets has not changed and by using indicators that point to the present locations of temporarily moved widgets.

In one embodiment the present disclosure teaches the combining of semi permanent general subject matter weightings by users of widgets with short term weightings of items of content by the providers of content associated with those widgets. A widget providing a low general importance but temporarily subject to a high alert may at a particular moment be roughly equivalent in size to a widget always of high interest providing routine information at that time. A balancing of a plurality of these user provider combinations is taught with the user in embodiments specifying the general importance of an area of subject matter and content providers rating the importance of specific items of content as they become available. In an embodiment the input of additional parties may be used to contribute to the determination of a combined or composite value for an item of content. A group of content consumers could vote and provide consensus ratings of the importance of an item of content. The importance of the content could alternatively be measured by the sheer volume of interest in an item of news business sports or weather content for example without consumers active participation. The primary actors in the events themselves also may provide ratings evaluations or alert levels associated with events occurring in which they are participants or eyewitnesses. The collective ratings and input of groups of interested observing parties and the ratings of parties directly involved in the events themselves may be quantified and made additional factors in the overall calculation of the importance of content delivered via widgets.

Turning now to a system of widget prioritization is provided. The system comprises an electronic device a prioritization application a weighting component a calculation component a layout component content providers a service provider a consensus provider an event reporting provider a base transceiver system and a network .

The electronic device is a communications device that receives electronic content from content providers . The electronic device may be a mobile telephone used under a subscription plan or other services arrangement with a service provider . Under a plan the electronic device may receive a plurality of electronic content including updates of periodically refreshed information from content providers . The electronic device may receive and display this information through widgets installed on the electronic device . Widgets are resident software applications embedded into the electronic device that may receive information from external sources for example content providers . In an embodiment the electronic device may download install and configure widgets from content providers or other sources. Widgets may be queried for any configuration requirements or preferences they may have regarding sizing or placement in the display of the electronic device . The electronic device may host a plurality of other applications that are not widgets including the prioritization application . The electronic device also may be a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a kiosk a set top box a television a video game console and other electronic devices.

The prioritization application executes on the electronic device and receives general priority weightings of widgets from users. The general priority weightings of widgets establish the general importance to a user associated with the subject matter provided by a widget. On a scale of 10 a widget providing stock market prices may be given a general priority weighting of 7 and a widget providing weather updates may be given a general priority weighting of 3 for example. The prioritization application combines a user s general priority weightings of widgets with weightings associated with short lived items of content associated with specific widgets. The weightings may be provided by content providers . In an example a content provider that provides stock market updates may send a message to an associated widget executing on an electronic device the message including an updated price to a particular common stock issue. At a time of great market fluctuation or when interest in the particular common stock is very high the message including the updated price may be provided a high urgency. The high urgency may be assigned a specific weight by the content provider for example a weight of 9 on a scale of 10. The specific weight of 9 may be combined in some algorithm or other fashion with the general priority weighting of 7 previously provided by the user of the electronic device for stock market prices in general.

The product of 63 or some other arithmetic or formulaic result may be used in determining a temporary resizing or other changing of the appearance of the widget associated with stock market activity. Based on its calculated values and the comparisons of values calculated for widgets associated with heightened conditions with values calculated for widgets associated with normal conditions the prioritization application may also temporarily adjust the size appearance and location of other widgets not currently associated with heightened conditions to permit the expansion of the affected widget. The prioritization application may temporarily move the other non affected widgets partially or completely from the primary viewing area of the electronic device while maintaining their relative position to each other and the affected widget. The prioritization application may provide indicators of the changed locations of the non affected widgets during the time the alert condition is in effect for the affected widget.

The prioritization application comprises the weighting component that receives the general priority weightings that are assigned by a user to each widget. These general priority weightings indicate the overall importance of the subject matter associated with each widget. In an embodiment the general priority weightings of widgets may be established initially and may change occasionally. An electronic device may be configured with one set of general priority weightings for the daytime and another for the evening and or one set of general priority weightings during the workweek and another in effect on the weekend. The weighting component also receives event weightings associated with the short lived items of content associated with events tracked by content providers . The weighting component stores the event weightings received at various times along with the general priority weightings associated with the widgets that receive the event weightings. The weighting component stores the event weightings for use by the calculation component and the layout component and may discard the event weightings when the alert conditions associated with the event weightings are no longer in effect.

The prioritization application also comprises the calculation component that performs arithmetic and formulaic operations on combinations of general priority weightings and their associated event weightings. In the simple example previously provided a general priority weighting may be a rating on one scale and an event weighting may be a rating on another scale. In the example adjustments to the size or other aspect of a particular widget may be determined by calculating the product of the two ratings. The calculation component instead of calculating a simple product by multiplying the general priority weighting in effect for a widget with the event weighting provided by a content provider for a specific current content item may process the two weightings through an algorithm. The algorithm may calculate relative priority values of widgets including widgets presently associated with various levels of heightened conditions as well as widgets associated with normal conditions.

In an embodiment two or more widgets may be simultaneously subject to heightened conditions. In an example a tornado warning may be sent by a content provider specializing in weather reporting at about the same time that a certain listed stock of interest increases in value by a material amount for example 10 and this event is reported by content provider . In this example new event weightings are received from both the content provider and the content provider . The calculation component would calculate new composite or combined weights for both the widget associated with weather reporting and the widget associated with stock market reporting. The calculation component may also perform additional calculations involving other widgets not presently associated with heightened conditions as their presentation and positioning may be affected by changes to the two or more widgets temporarily subject to heightened conditions. In an embodiment widgets may be changed for a short duration for example ten or twenty minutes while a heightened condition is in effect.

The prioritization application also comprises the layout component that receives input from the calculation component . The layout component makes changes to the sizing and appearance of widgets in response to the calculations about heightened conditions communicated by content providers . The layout component makes the determinations of how widgets should be visually projected in the display of the electronic device . The layout component deals with the physical limitations of the electronic device in displaying widgets based on the preferred positioning of widgets that may have been expressed by a user and based on calculations made by the calculation component . The layout component also deals with display limitations associated with specific widgets. It may not be possible to change the shape or color of some widgets. Some widgets may have technical or legal limitations regarding the size to which the widget may be reduced or expanded. Because some widgets may be obtained from content providers and installed under agreement with the content providers use of the widgets may be subject to requirements that limit how the size and appearance may be changed. Some widgets may display images that a user cannot change and require that the widget remain a certain size or color. The layout component takes into account display requirements in effect for widgets when determining how widgets will be displayed given a set of calculations made by the calculation component in any situation. Some content providers and their available widgets may be queried as to the widgets display preferences. Because some widgets may display a plurality of content using various colors and graphics that may display moving pictures or other active content widgets may have preferred and even required methods of rendering. An electronic device that is making contact with content providers and requesting widgets to be downloaded and installed may query the content providers and the widgets in which they are interested about how best to install and configure the widgets to get good performance results from the widgets.

In an embodiment the widgets may provide an application programming interface API that may be invoked by the layout component to determine how to lay out the widget display. For example the layout component may first invoke a first method provided by an application programming interface of a first widget associated with the highest current priority to determine how the first widget would like to be displayed. The first method may accept arguments or parameters to be provided by the layout component describing an amount of display space or other display resources available. The first widget may respond to the first method invocation by returning a layout request such as 3 spaces by 3 spaces for example where the display screen is portioned into a pane 5 spaces wide by 7 space high. The layout component next may invoke a second method provided by an application programming interface of a second widget associated with the second highest priority to determine how the second widget would like to be displayed. The second method may accept arguments or parameters to be provided describing the amount of display space or other display resources available. The second widget may respond to the second method invocation by returning a layout request such as 2 spaces by 1 space. The layout component finally may invoke a third method provided by an application programming interface of a third widget associated with the third highest priority to determine how the third widget would like to be displayed. The third method may accept arguments or parameters to be provided describing the amount of display space or other display resources available. The third widget may respond to the third method invocation by returning a layout request such as 1 space by 1 space. In other embodiments other conventions for partitioning or allocating screen resources may be employed for example a N pixel by M pixel designation or other spatial designation may be employed. The layout component may then lay out the display screen of the three widgets substantially in accord with the layout requests returned by the three widgets.

Some electronic devices may allow for content that cannot all fit into the primary viewing panel of a display of the electronic device to be displayed in adjacent panels that may be accessible by scrolling to right or left or up or down. An electronic device may display its content in a large virtual screen larger than the actual physical display the large virtual display accessible by scrolling about continuously from one area of the large virtual screen to another. Whether oversized content is displayed in a series of panels adjacent to the primary viewing panel of the display or is displayed in a large virtual screen accessible by continuous scrolling the layout component may insert indicators pointers minimized icons or other markers that may assist in the accessing of widgets that may have been temporarily moved from the primary viewing panel of the electronic device . In an embodiment a user may prescribe the initial positioning of widgets and may request that widgets remain in the same relative position regardless of alerts that may be in effect and how those alerts may affect the sizing of one or more widgets. Some widgets may be anchored to corners of the display. The widgets may remain anchored to their corners even when the widgets may be changed in size or appearance in response to heightened conditions.

In an embodiment the electronic device may not permit the movement of widgets beyond the viewing area of the display because of technical limitations. In another embodiment widgets may technically be moved beyond the viewing area but user requirements may specify that all widgets remain fully visible in the display. In these and other embodiments when widgets always stay completely inside the display the layout component may change or otherwise reduce the size or shape of widgets to accommodate these needs or requirements. Some widgets by requirement or recommendation of a content provider may display certain images at certain times. A widget that links to a content provider of weather reporting may display an image of a bright sun a tornado or lightning bolt as appropriate. As a tornado moves closer to the location of the electronic device the content provider may send alerts of increasing urgency that cause the prioritization application to expand the size of the widget change the color of the widget and or cause the widget to begin flashing. In an embodiment a widget providing weather information may expand to a size permitting it to display a map depicting the movement of a storm system across a geographic area. As the content provider sends periodic updates the map depicted in the widget displays the storm system as it progresses across the geographic area wherein the electronic device is located or other area specified by the electronic device .

Content providers send periodically updated content to electronic devices . In an embodiment content providers may be news services sports information services weather information providers travel information providers airlines and other entities that issue information that is periodically changed and updated. Content providers may originate the information they distribute such as an airline might with its flight arrival times or they may aggregate the information like a news broadcaster. Content providers may provide weights to the items of information that they distribute or another entity may provide the weights. Content providers may provide the widgets that electronic devices download and install or they may provide their content to widgets created and distributed by other entities.

Service providers provide wireless and other communications services that electronic device may receive under subscription or other service plan. Electronic devices may distribute the services of content providers through their subscriptions with service providers . In an embodiment a service provider also may function in the role of a content provider by distributing content it has purchased on a wholesale or other basis from a content provider . In this embodiment the service provider also may provide the event weights associated with specific items of content as they are received from content providers .

The consensus provider may be a group of consumers of content distributed by content providers . The present disclosure teaches the inclusion of measures of collective interest in content in which the electronic device may access using an installed widget. The collective interest may be taken as a passive measure of simple volume of readership or viewership of an item of content or it may be an active measure of how many electronic devices respond to a survey about an item of content and the level of their interest in or opinion about the subject. Collective interest in an item of content may be measured in a plurality of manners. The level of collective interest may be given a weight in the same manner as an event weight is provided to a specific item of content by a content provider . In an embodiment the weight provided an item of content by collective interest via the consensus provider may be received by the prioritization application and made part of the operations of the calculation component in determining how the size or appearance of the appropriate widget should be changed. In an embodiment in addition to the general priority weighting for the widget s subject matter and the event weighting provided by the content provider the weight provided by the consensus provider may be taken into account by the calculation component in determining changes to widgets. In an embodiment the weight provided by the consensus provider may be substituted for the event weight provided by the content provider . In an embodiment the calculation component will use only the general priority weighting and the weight provided by the consensus provider in determining changes to widgets. The consensus provider may provide its weightings through a content provider or it may provide its weightings directly to the electronic device through the service provider .

The event reporting provider is a primary source of information that may be provided in an electronic transmission to a widget. While their weightings of events may be valuable content providers and consensus providers are in most cases observers of the events. In some cases direct participants in the events may provide input and weights of the events or certain aspects of the events. A direct participant in a sporting event could provide a live rating of the level of competition from the field the court or the ice. A weather reporter situated in the intensity of a storm could provide a weight for the intensity of the weather crisis. A trader reporting from a trading floor and in the middle of intense transaction activity could submit a weighting for the high level of activity in the trading of a certain commodity or financial instrument. As with consensus providers in an embodiment the weightings from event reporting providers could be received and processed by the prioritization application in addition to event weightings provided by a content provider . In another embodiment the weighting received from event reporting providers could also be used instead of weightings from a content provider . In an embodiment the calculation component will use only the general priority weighting and the weight provided by the event reporting providers in determining changes to widgets. The event reporting providers may provide its weightings through a content provider or it may provide its weightings directly to the electronic device through the service provider .

The wireless base station may be any of a cellular wireless base station for example a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and or Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS cellular wireless base station a World wide Interoperable Microwave Access WiMAX base station a WiFi access point or other wireless access device.

The electronic device is depicted in as communicating wirelessly via the wireless base station with the other components of the system . It is understood that in some embodiments the electronic device may communicate with the other components of the system using other communications technologies including wired links and the wireless base station may not be used. While one of electronic device and one base transceiver station are illustrated in it is understood that the system may comprise any number of these devices.

The network promotes communication between the components of the system . The network may be any communication network including a public data network PDN a public switched telephone network PSTN a private network and or a combination thereof.

Turning now to a method of user interface screen presentation prioritization is provided. Beginning at block the weighting component receives and stores general priority weightings for widgets or selectable items that receive content. General priority weightings may be manually entered by a user into the electronic device . On a scale of ten a first selectable item providing sports scores may receive a first weight of 8 a second selectable item providing stock market updates may receive a second weight of 4 and a third selectable item providing weather updates may receive a third weight of 7. The weights are measures of the relative importance to a user of the electronic device or first interested party of the subject matter provided by the selectable items. While the method only discusses the use of a single set of weights for selectable items reporting sports scores stock market updates and weather information in an embodiment separate schedules of weights could be used during the day versus during the evening and during the workweek versus during the weekend depending on the type of events taking place during those times as well as the physical location of the electronic device .

At block the weighting component receives and saves event weights from content providers for each of the three selectable items described at block . In the method the content providers correspond to a second interested party a third interested party and a fourth interested party respectively. The second interested party may be a provider of sports score information the third interested party may be a provider of stock market updates and the fourth interested party may be a provider of weather updates. The weighting component receives a fourth weight associated with the first selectable item from the second interested party receives a fifth weight associated with the second selectable item from third interested party and receiving a sixth weight associated with the third selectable item from the fourth interested party. During times when conditions are normal and no heightened conditions are in effect the weighting component may regularly receive the same set of event weights from one hour to the next or whatever the regular interval may be for receiving the weights from the second interested party the third interested party and the fourth interested party. When one or more of the second third and fourth interested parties are providing information associated with heightened conditions event weights may be received from the particular interested party more frequently.

At block the calculation component combines the general priority weightings or first second and third weights assigned by the first interested party for each of the three selectable items described at block with the event weights or fourth fifth and sixth weights received at block associated with each respective selectable item. The calculation component combines the first weight with the fourth weight to determine a first combined weight combines the second weight with the fifth weight to determine a second combined weight and combines the third weight with the sixth weight to determine a third combined weight. The first combined weight second combined weight and the third combined weight are total weights currently associated with the first selectable item the second selectable item and the third selectable item respectively that in the example are widgets providing content on sports scores stock market updates and weather information respectively. These combinations may be as simple as calculating an arithmetic product of the two weights for each selectable item or it may involve processing each pair of weights through an algorithm or other mathematic or analytic process.

At block the layout component positions the first selectable item the second selectable item and the third selectable item in the display based on the calculations made at block by the calculation component . The layout component positions the first selectable item the second selectable item and the third selectable item in the display based on the first combined weight the second combined weight and the third combined weight. Under normal circumstances when none of the selectable items is receiving a fourth fifth or sixth weight from its corresponding second interested party third interested party or fourth interested party that indicate a heightened condition the layout component may display the selectable items according to the priority and placement preferences originally chosen by the first interested party and entered into the electronic device . In an embodiment changing the size of the selectable items maintaining the relative position of the selectable items and multi dimensional and or multi party weighting of the priority of the selectable items may each provide value independently of each other.

When a content provider generates an event weight that indicates a heightened condition the weighting component receives the new event weight and the calculation component matches the newly received event weight with the general priority weighting assigned to the widget linking to the content provider associated with the widget. The calculation component enters the two measures into its algorithm along with the existing event weights and general priority weightings for the other widgets that are not in heightened conditions. The layout component determines the size to which the affected widget should be expanded given the severity level of the alert and any sizing limitations on the widget. The layout component also determines the locations in the display to which the other widgets should be moved and any resizing of the other widgets. If the expansion of the widget that received the alert makes it necessary that other widgets be partially or completely moved out of the primary viewing area of the electronic device indicators will be placed that assist in the accessing of those moved widgets.

In an embodiment the event weightings provided by the consensus provider and or the event reporting provider may be received by the weighting component and taken into the calculations by the calculation component . The present disclosure teaches combining the general priority weighting for a widget with any one or more of event weightings received from a content provider a consensus provider and an event reporting provider . The calculation component has the capability to take into account event weightings received on alert conditions from any one or any combination of these three providers of input. Algorithms used by the calculation component may not treat weights received from each of a content provider a consensus provider and an event reporting provider in the same way depending on the circumstances of the event involved as well as the importance placed on the weighting received from each. Regardless of which one of or what combination of a content provider a consensus provider and an event reporting provider provides weights to the prioritization application to be combined with the general priority weighting for a given widget when the calculation component has completed its operations on the weights provided for a particular event the layout component then sizes shapes and places the widgets in the display of the electronic device for viewing and access.

Turning now to a processor implemented method of user interface screen presentation prioritization is provided. Blocks and are similar to the method . At block general priority weightings applied to three widgets are combined with event weights received from content providers associated with the widgets. The three widgets may deliver updates on sports scores stock market updates and weather information and the general priority weightings provide indication of the general level of interest in these subject areas. The general priority weightings may have been manually entered into the electronic device . By combining the general priority weightings for the sports score stock market update and weather information widgets with the event weightings currently in effect for those widgets received from their content providers respectively the calculation component may determine a first combined weight a second combined weight and a third combined weight for those widgets respectively.

At block the calculation component and the layout component position the three widgets based on the first combined weight the second combined weight and the third combined weight. In an embodiment the layout component may have instructions to place the sports score widget in the upper left corner of the display place the stock market update widget in the upper right corner of the display and place the weather information widget in the center left portion of the display.

At block the electronic device receives a message from the content provider the message containing a new event weight associated with the sports score widget. The new event weight for the sports score widget replaces the previous event weight for the sports score widget. In an embodiment the content provider may have received news that the score of a sports competition of interest has changed or the competition has ended and a final score is available. The new event weight sent by the content provider associated with this change is intended to be taken as a heightened condition and displayed on the electronic device in a manner that attracts attention.

At block the calculation component calculates a new combined weight for the sports score widget using the previously received general priority weighting for the widget with the newly received event weight associated with the heightened condition. In an embodiment the new combined weight may be referred to as a fourth combined weight the fourth weight replacing the first combined weight calculated earlier when the sports score widget was not in a heightened state.

At block the layout component acting on the calculations made by the calculation component at block changes the display size of the widget associated with sports scores. In an embodiment the layout component may alternatively or in addition change the color of the widget or cause the widget to begin flashing or pulsating. In an embodiment the widget may display a different image. When a storm approaches the vicinity of the electronic device for example a widget that displays content received from a content provider that provides weather information may begin displaying a cloud or lightning bolt for example.

At block the prioritization application relocates the widgets that display stock market updates and weather information to allow for the change in display size of the widget associated with sports scores that is in a temporary heightened state as described at block . The positions of the widgets that display stock market updates and weather information remain the same relative to the widget displaying sports scores but because the widget displaying sports scores is temporarily expanded for example it may be necessary to move the widgets that display stock market updates and weather information. In moving the stock market and weather information widgets to permit the sports score widget to expand but to also maintain all of the widgets relative positions to each other it may be necessary to move a portion of or all of the stock market and weather information widgets to panels adjacent the viewing display of the electronic device . If the electronic device uses a single large continuous viewing screen that can be viewed by continuous scrolling about the stock market and weather information widgets may have been moved into those other areas of the large continuous screen. Whatever the display method used by the electronic device when widgets have been moved partially or completely from the primary viewing area of the display arrows small icons or other indicators may be placed to assist in accessing the moved widgets.

When one or more widgets are moved to other areas of the display to allow for size changes in the heightened state of one or more widgets the widgets may remain in the same position in the display relative to the widget s in heightened state. The relative position of the widgets is established by the user of the electronic device and may not frequently change. When one widget expands in size the other widgets may move but their position relative to each other may not change and instead stays as configured by the user of the electronic device . When one or more widgets in heightened state expands to a size large enough that the other widgets in order to maintain their relative positions must move partially or completely off the primary viewing area of the electronic device the icons arrows or other symbols indicate the direction in which the shifted widgets have moved. Maintaining the same relative positioning of widgets when one or more widgets enter a heightened state and are expanded may enable more rapid location of moved widgets.

The mobile device includes a display and a touch sensitive surface or keys for input by a user. The mobile device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The mobile device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the mobile device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer mobile device .

The mobile device may execute a web browser application which enables the display to show a web page. The web page may be obtained via wireless communications with a base transceiver station BTS a wireless network access node a peer mobile device or any other wireless communication network or system. While a single base transceiver station is illustrated it is understood that the wireless communication system may comprise additional base transceiver stations. In some instances the mobile device may be in communication with multiple base transceiver stations at the same time. The base transceiver station or wireless network access node is coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the mobile device has access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display . Alternately the mobile device may access the base transceiver station through a peer mobile device acting as an intermediary in a relay type or hop type of connection.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the mobile device to send and receive information from a radio access network RAN or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the mobile device to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the mobile device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the mobile device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM and or worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in optical media for example optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed referred to herein as the transmission medium may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

