---

title: Method and apparatus for selecting a communication network
abstract: A method, apparatus, and computer usable program product for selecting a network for telecommunication are provided. A type of network supporting a called identifier is identified. Several types of networks are accessible to a calling communication device. A database is queried with a query including the called identifier to identify the types of networks that are accessible to a called communication device. A network corresponding to the called communication device is selected at the calling communication device. A communication session is established between the calling and called communication devices using the selected network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09001820&OS=09001820&RS=09001820
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 09001820
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This Application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 904 698 filed Sep. 28 2007 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR SELECTING A NETWORK FOR TELECOMMUNICATION the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The principles of the present invention relate generally to an improved telecommunication system and in particular to using networks for telecommunication. Still more particularly the principles of the present invention relate to a method apparatus and computer usable program product for selecting a network for telecommunication.

Telecommunication involves two or more communication devices communicating with each other using a communication network. For example two telephones may be able to communicate with each other using a telecommunication network called public switched telephone network PSTN . PSTN is primarily a voice telecommunication network for enabling telephone based telecommunication between two or more parties.

A caller telephone or a calling telephone is a telephone from which a voice call is placed. A called telephone is a telephone on which a voice call is received. A caller party or a calling party is an individual or a party who places a voice call. A called party is an individual or party who receives a voice call. A caller number or a calling number is a telephone number from which a voice call is placed. A called number is a telephone number on which a voice call is received.

Similarly a caller communication device or a calling communication device is a communication device from which a telecommunication call is placed and a called communication device is a communication device on which a telecommunication call in received. The term communication devices refers to the collection of all devices used for telecommunication. For example a communication device can be the familiar telephone a computer with a telecommunication enabling software application a telephone like device that works over data networks instead of plain old telephone system POTS line a wireless or cellular phone or any other device used for telecommunication. A communication device is any one of these communication devices.

VOIP is a telecommunication method for transmitting voice communications over a data network such as the Internet. Common VOIP implementations are in telephony where telephone conversations are partly carried over the Internet from a caller telephone to a called telephone. A VOIP call is a voice call connected using VOIP technology. VOIP data is the data that represents the voice signals in a voice call that is connected through VOIP systems.

Data networks are broadly categorized into two categories local area network LAN and wide area network WAN . A LAN is a data network that connects a few data processing systems generally within a home or an office. A WAN is a data network that connects several LANs and data processing systems together generally across cities countries and continents. The Internet is an example of a WAN whereas a home networking is an example of a LAN.

Various communication devices are capable of communicating with each other using a variety of networks. Some communication devices are able to communicate over PSTN other communication devices communicate over wired or wireless LANs and WANs such as a VOIP enabled telephone. Presently a communication device capable of communicating on one type of network may be able to communicate with another communication device capable of communicating on another type of network by using intermediate data processing systems for connecting the communication devices operating on dissimilar networks. These intermediate data processing systems are commonly known as gateways and they bridge different types of networks in the path from a caller communication device to a called communication device.

To reduce the cost and complexity of network based gateways and data processing presently needed for connecting calls originating and terminating on different types of networks the illustrative embodiments provide for selecting a network for telecommunication. In one embodiment a type of network supporting a called identifier is identified. Several types of networks are accessible to a calling communication device for making a call to the called identifier. The network corresponding to the identified network is selected at the calling communication device. A communication session is established between the calling communication device and a called communication device associated with the called identifier is completed using the selected network.

In another embodiment a database is queried with a query including the called identifier. The response to the query is used for identifying the identified network from the response. In another embodiment the query may be sent to a local database a remote database or both. The local database may include information about called identifiers that are called from the calling communication device frequently and may include called identifiers that are provided by a user. The remote database may include information about called identifiers known to a provider of the remote database authenticating information about several users capable of sending the query and authenticating information about several communication devices capable of sending the query.

In another embodiment updates may be received and installed. In another embodiment the identified network may be overridden by selecting a network of a type that is different from the type of network supporting the called identifier.

Presently communication devices that can connect to more than one networks are available. For example a telephone that can connect to PSTN as well as VOIP networks are currently available. However a user using such a communication device determines which network to use when making a call. For example a user may set the telephone to use VOIP network for voice communications and PSTN for fax calls.

Furthermore when a call is made from a communication device on one network to a called communication device on another network present systems employ a series of gateways and other data processing systems to connect calls on dissimilar networks. For example a VOIP call originating from a VOIP enabled telephone and terminating at a PSTN called telephone goes through a series of gateways that bridge the VOIP network and PSTN.

Illustrative embodiments recognize that these gateways and the data processing performed by these gateways are expensive time consuming and complex systems. The illustrative embodiments further recognize that calls originating and terminating on the same type of network are much more efficient and easier to manage as compared to calls originating and terminating on different types of networks.

Therefore the illustrative embodiments recognize that communication devices that are capable of connecting to more than one networks can be modified as described below to select a network such that the caller communication device and the called communication device may communicate on similar networks. For example a caller telephone capable of connecting to a VOIP network and PSTN may select a network from among those networks which matches the network that a called telephone may be using. As another example a cellular phone capable of connecting to cellular network as well as VOIP network may select one of those networks based on the called number. Many other combinations and configurations will become apparent from the description of the illustrative embodiments provided below.

With reference to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. is not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

A VOIP adapter not shown is an electronic device that can connect to phone and convert the voice signals to and from phone into data that can be processed for connecting a VOIP call. In one embodiment phone and VOIP adapter may be combined into one integrated device forming phone .

A VOIP system is representative of the entire VOIP system that a VOIP provider uses for providing VOIP services. VOIP system may include a VOIP gateway and many other equipments all of which together enable a VOIP provider to provide VOIP services. Phone communicates with VOIP system over a data network . Data network is a VOIP network as described above. An example of data network is the Internet.

For completing VOIP calls such as a VOIP call originating from phone VOIP system communicates with providers of regular telephone services such as PSTN providers as well as other VOIP providers. depicts VOIP system in communication with a PSTN provider s PSTN system . VOIP system may communicate with PSTN system using a dedicated communication link or using Public data network . PSTN provider s system uses a PSTN network for completing the call that originated as a VOIP call from phone to a phone . Phone is also a communication device as described above with respect to phone . A dedicated communication link such as dedicated communication link is a telecommunication link configured for enabling communication only between predetermined parties.

Likewise a call originating from phone can be completed at phone by traversing VOIP system in order from phone to phone . depicts only schematic components involved in telecommunication system . Several other components devices systems and interconnects may be present in a typical VOIP system but are not shown in for clarity of the description.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a system for selecting a network for communication in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. System may be implemented using telecommunication system in . Phone may be implemented using phone in .

Phone includes network selection application . Phone may communicate with VOIP system over data network in the manner described above with respect to . Phone may also communicate with PSTN system over PSTN as described above with respect to . Other phones may also communicate with data network PSTN or both. For example VOIP enabled phone is shown as being in communication with data network whereas PSTN phone is shown to be in communication with PSTN . Phone may call phones and and other similarly situated phones.

Network selection application interacts with database over data network . This interaction helps in the selection of either data network or PSTN for making a call from phone . The manner of network selection application s interaction with database and the manner of selection of network for communication between phone and exemplary phones and is described in detail in the description of subsequent figures below.

With reference to this figure depicts a block diagram of a network selection system in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Network selection system includes network selection application which may be implemented using network selection application in .

Network selection application uses data communication component for communicating with data network . Data network may be implemented using data network in . Network selection application includes query construction component response analysis component network selection component local database and user interface .

Network selection system includes database which may be implemented using database in . Database is a remote database. A remote databases is a database that is accessed over a data network. Database includes query receiving component data response construction component and optional authentication component . Database uses data communication component for communicating with data network .

When a user dials a called number on a caller phone such as phone in network selection application receives the called number. Using the called number query construction component constructs a query for database to determine a type of network on which the called number operates. Note that the user may be a human user of the caller phone or an application such as a software application making a call.

In one embodiment before constructing a query for database query construction component may query local database . Local database may include information similar to the information provided by database but for certain called numbers that are called frequently or are provided by the user of the caller phone. Local database may also learn and store the learnt information for future use from the results of previous queries sent to database .

By querying local database first querying database may be avoided if information about the called number is present in local database . Avoiding querying database may reduce the total time needed for connecting the call in accordance with the illustrative embodiment as queries to local databases are generally faster than queries to remote databases.

In another embodiment both databases local database and remote database may be queried. As an example an implementation of the illustrative embodiment may choose to query both databases for verifying the accuracy of the information in either database or for updating the information in either database.

Another embodiment may query the remote database database before querying the local database . As an example this order of querying may be useful if the local database is non responsive for any reason. Continuing with the description of components of network selection application response analysis component receives and analyzes the response to the query sent by query construction component . The response may be a response to a query sent to local database or a response to a query sent to database . Response from database may be received using data communication component .

By analyzing the response response analysis component identifies a network that may be used for connecting the call to the called number. Network connection component may use the identified network and completes the call to the called number on the identified network.

In some circumstances the identified network may not be acceptable to the user originating the call. In such circumstances the user may wish to override the selection of the identified network and select a different network for completing the call. User interface provides the user the capability for specifying the overriding instructions for example for specifying which network to use instead of the identified network.

User interface may take any form suitable for the communication device being used for making the call. For example when the communication device is a telephone user interface may be the keypad of the telephone. As another example when the communication device is a softphone user interface may be a graphical user interface displayed on a computer monitor. User interface may also be simply a function an application programming interface API or an equivalent thereof which can be called by an application placing the call or network selection application such as in the case when a call fails on the identified network and an alternate network has to be selected. Many other ways of implementing user interface will become apparent from this disclosure. The process of overriding an identified network is described in greater detail with respect to .

When a query is sent to database network selection application uses data communication component for communicating with database over data network . Similarly database uses data communication component for communicating with data network . Database receives a query sent to database through data communication component using query receiving component . Query receiving component may perform other functions in addition to receiving the query. For example query receiving component may perform pre processing of the query such as optimizing the query reforming the query scheduling the query for execution and logging the query. Many other query pre processing functions will be conceivable from the description of the illustrative embodiment.

Furthermore query receiving component may authenticate the user and or the communication device that sent the query. For authenticating query receiving component may use authentication component .

In one embodiment authentication may be an optional function and authentication component may be an optional component. In another embodiment authentication may be a task external to database and authentication component may be external to database . In yet another embodiment authentication may be an implicit function of query receiving component and authentication component may be merged with query receiving component . Many other configurations will be conceivable from this description of the illustrative embodiment.

Once a query is received and optionally pre processed and optional authentication performed the query is submitted for searching data . Data includes at least a listing of several phone numbers and their corresponding networks. For example data may include a telephone number 212 555 1212 and an indication that the telephone number operates on PSTN and a telephone number 212 555 1313 and an indication that the telephone number operates on VOIP network.

Data may include many other pieces of information or attributes about the telephone numbers or users stored therein. For example data may include not only telephone numbers but wireless numbers user identifier user ID short message service SMS numbers instant messaging IM identifiers email addresses Internet protocol IP addresses street addresses global positioning system GPS locations device capabilities and other similar attributes associated with a caller called party and a caller called communication device. Furthermore data and database as a whole may be distributed across several data processing systems organized and interconnected with each other in some logical fashion.

In one embodiment the telephone number itself may provide an indication of the network on which a communication device associated with that telephone number is supported. For example a telephone number having a particular area code may be indicative of a particular carrier s network and the network s type by implication such as PSTN. In another embodiment another type of identifier such as a user ID may indicate the type of network supporting the called communication device. For example a call to a user ID instead of a conventional telephone number may indicate that the called communication device is supported on a data network such as a VOIP network. Similarly other identifiers for a called party may indicate the type of network supporting a called communication device and are contemplated within the scope of the illustrative embodiments. Any identifier including the examples provided above that identifies a called party is called a called identifier. Similarly any identifier including the examples provided above that identifies a calling party is called a calling identifier.

Once the query is executed against data response construction component prepares the result of the query in a form that may be acceptable to network selection application . The prepared response is then sent from database to network selection application over data network using data communication components and .

The components depicted in are depicted only as exemplary for the clarity of the description and are not limiting on the illustrative embodiments. A particular implementation may organize the components differently than shown may combine subdivide or augment the depicted components without departing from the scope or spirit of the illustrative embodiments.

With reference to this figure depicts a system for updating a network selection application in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Network selection application may be implemented using network selection application in .

Network selection application uses data communication component to communicate over data network in a manner similar to the manner described with respect to . Using this manner of data communication network selection application receives information for updating network selection application and its various components described above.

Updates repository is a repository of updated information that is usable for updating a network selection application such as network selection application and its various components. Updates repository is capable of communicating the updates over data network using data communication component .

Updates repository may include updates for hardware software firmware and data components of a network selection application. In the exemplary depiction of updates repository is shown to include updates pertaining to database changes and software firmware updates . Note that updates repository may be a repository separate from or same as database such as database in .

As one example of database changes database changes may include updates for data that may have been sent by database in to local database in that may have changed or become obsolete. As another example database changes may include information about a changed location such as IP address or URL of database in . As another example database changes may include information about a changed schema of data in database in to facilitate correct construction of future queries in query construction component in . These examples are not limiting and many other database changes are conceivable from the description of the illustrative embodiments.

Software firmware updates may include information that may update the functionality of the network selection application or its components. For example software firmware update may include information that corrects a malfunction or bug in the code of the network selection application. As another example software firmware update may include information that enhances the speed performance of a component such as data communication component in . As another example software firmware update may include information that adds a new capability such as adding a new network to select from in the network selection component. These examples are not limiting and many other database changes are conceivable from the description of the illustrative embodiments.

Updates repository may also optionally include authentication component for authenticating a user or device attempting to use updates repository . Authentication component may be particularly helpful in certain circumstances. For example if the updates repository is hosted by a device manufacturer the manufacturer may want to restrict access to the updates repository to only the devices manufactured by that manufacturer. As another example authentication component may be used to restrict access to the updates repository to only the subscribers of a network service provider if the network service provider hosts the updates repository.

In one embodiment authentication component may be absent. In another embodiment authentication component may be combined with other components. In another embodiment authentication component may be external to updates repository .

With reference to this figure depicts a flowchart of a process for selecting a network for telecommunication in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Process may be implemented using network selection application in .

Process begins by receiving a dialed phone number step . A dialed phone number is a called number that a user may dial in order to establish a telecommunication call. Recall that the user includes applications that can initiate a call. The process determines if the dialed phone number is present in a local database such as local database in step . If the dialed phone number is not present in the local databases No path of step the process constructs a query including the dialed phone number step . The process sends the query and any optional authenticating information as described above with respect to to a database such as database in step .

The process receives a response from the database to which it sent the query and optional authenticating information in step step . The process determines whether any indication is present that the user who dialed the phone number wants to override the network identified for that dialed phone number in the response step . The user may want to override the selection of the network associated with the dialed phone number as indicated in the response. For example if the dialed phone number is a fax number the user may want to force the call to go over PSTN for better reliability as compared to the same call going over VOIP network. Thus even if the dialed phone number is indicated to be supported on a VOIP network the user may want to override that indication and force the call to use PSTN.

As another example a user may always want to use PSTN for 911 emergency calls regardless of whether the 911 service is reachable on VOIP network. As another example an application may want to force a call originating from a softphone to use the VOIP network even if the dialed phone number is supported on PSTN as the application may want to associate with the call certain other data streams such as a shared whiteboard or a video stream. As another example a conference calling phone number may be supported on VOIP network but a user dialing the conference calling phone number may wish to override the selection of the VOIP network and select PSTN instead if all other callers are also on PSTN. These examples are described only for the clarity of the description and not intended to be limiting on the illustrative embodiments. Many other situations are conceivable in which a user may want to override the selection of the network supporting a called number by selecting a different network.

Returning to step if no indication is present that the user who dialed the phone number wants to override the network identified for that dialed phone number in the response No path of step the process selects the network based on the response received in step step . If however an indication is present that the user who dialed the phone number wants to override the network identified for that dialed phone number in the response Yes path of step the process selects the network based on the overriding specification of the network step .

Returning to step the dialed phone number may be present in the local database. If the dialed phone number is present in the local databases Yes path of step the process selects a network based on the entry for the dialed phone number in the local database step .

Regardless of how the network is selected from among the various selection options described above the process connects the call using the selected network step . The process ends thereafter.

With reference to this figure depicts a flowchart of a process of updating the network selection application in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Process may be implemented using network selection application in .

Process begins by checking for updates step . Note that a network selection application may check for updates as in step or may receive updates without having to check for the updates. Thus a particular implementation may have two paths in process one including step and one bypassing step as depicted by the dotted arrow around step . For example an implementation of process may check for updates to the local database such as local database in but passively receive updates for any bug fixes that may become available at any time.

Whether by checking or by passively receiving process receives any updates available for the network selection application step . The process installs the updates received in step step . The process ends thereafter.

With reference to this figure depicts a flowchart of a process of responding to a request from a network selection application in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Process may be implemented using database in .

Process begins by receiving a query and any optional authenticating information such as those sent in step in step . As described above a database such as database in may or may not perform authentication of the requesting device or user. If authentication is performed and authenticating information is received in step process determines if the requesting user and or device have been authenticated step . If the user and or the device have been authenticated Yes path of step the process searches the database using the phone number supplied in the query step . The process may search a database such as databases in using the database s data such as data in for performing step .

Based on the result of the search performed in step the process constructs a response to the query received in step step . The process then sends the response to the requesting user and or device that sent the query received in step step . The process ends thereafter.

Returning to step a requesting user and or device may not be authenticated. If the requesting user and or device are not authenticated No path of step the process ends.

Note that the steps of processes and are selected and described only for clarity of the description and are not limiting on the illustrative embodiments. Depicted steps may be combined further divided augmented to deleted or modified in particular implementations.

Furthermore the various illustrative embodiments are described using called number for selecting a network only for the clarity of the description. Called numbers are used only as exemplary and are not limiting on the illustrative embodiments. Any called identifier as described above may be used in place of a called number in the manner described in an implementation of the illustrative embodiments.

Thus in the illustrative embodiments described above a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product provide for selecting a network for telecommunication. The illustrative embodiments describe an improved telecommunication system where one of many accessible networks may be selected for connecting a call. In one embodiment the selection of the network is based on learning the network on which a called number is supported. Selecting at the calling communication device for connecting a call a network that supports the called number may avoid using network based gateways and data processing that is presently required for connecting calls to and from dissimilar networks. Thus connecting a call using a network that is common to both the calling number and the called number using the illustrative embodiments may be more efficient cheaper and easier than connecting a call that originates on one type of network and terminates on another type of network.

The illustrative embodiments can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. Furthermore the illustrative embodiments can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Further a computer storage medium may contain or store a computer readable program code such that when the computer readable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable program code over a communication link. This communication link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

The above description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the illustrative embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

