---

title: Mobile voice self service system
abstract: A Mobile Voice Self Service (MVSS) mobile system that includes an MVSS mobile device, on which a VoiceXML browser is implemented directly. The VoiceXML browser may request a VoiceXML application from a VoiceXML application server and process it. A client system may include the VoiceXML application server that the VoiceXML application is requested from. Upon request, the VoiceXML application may deliver the requested VoiceXML application to the VoiceXML application browser. A vendor media resource system may provide advanced Media Resource Control Protocol (MRCP) services, such as Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) or Text-To-Speech (TTS), to the VoiceXML application that is being processed by the VoiceXML application browser. A call data manager may also be implemented on the MVSS mobile device and may provide call data that, in conjunction with data from the VoiceXML application server, may authorize access to advanced Media Resource Control Protocol (MRCP) services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232375&OS=09232375&RS=09232375
owner: WEST CORPORATION
number: 09232375
owner_city: Omaha
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
The present patent application is a continuation of and claims priority from patent application Ser. No. 12 138 476 titled MOBILE VOICE SELF SERVICE SYSTEM filed Jun. 13 2008 the entire contents of which are enclosed by reference herein.

The present invention relates to a Mobile Voice Self Service MVSS system for processing an application via an application browser that is implemented on a mobile device. More particularly the present invention relates to an MVSS system for processing a VoiceXML application via a VoiceXML application browser implemented directly on an MVSS mobile device.

In telephony Interactive Voice Response IVR is a technology that allows a computer to detect voice and touch tones in a telephone call.

Many companies employ systems based on IVR technology to process and route telephone calls originating from their respective customers. Examples include telephone banking televoting and credit card transactions. IVR systems are typically used to service high call volumes reduce cost and improve the customer experience.

If a customer dials a telephone number that is answered by an IVR system the system executes an application that responds to the customer caller with pre recorded or dynamically generated audio files. These audio files explain the options available to the caller and direct the caller on how to proceed. The caller selects an option by using spoken words or Dual Tone Multi Frequency DMTF tones e.g. telephone keypad touch tones.

Modern IVR applications are structured similar to World Wide Web pages using languages such as VoiceXML. Other languages may include for example SALT or T XML.

Since many companies do not have their own IVR platforms they typically turn to outsourcing companies or vendors to either host their VoiceXML application or manage the application as a whole. An example of such a hosted environment is shown in .

The hosted environment shown in may include end user devices such as a mobile device or a land line phone hosted vendor systems and client systems . The mobile device such as a cellular phone PDA or iPhone and or the land line phone may communicate with the hosted vendor systems via a telephony interface . The telephony interface in turn interacts with a VoiceXML browser a MRCP TTS Server and a MRCP Speech Recognition Server all of which are part of the hosted vendor systems .

The VoiceXML browser may be an extension of a web browser that presents an interactive voice user interface to the user and that operates on pages that specify voice dialogs. These pages may be written in VoiceXML language which is the W3C s standard voice dialog markup language but other proprietary voice dialog languages may be used. The VoiceXML browser may present information aurally using pre recorded audio file playback or using Text To Speech TTS software to render textual information as audio. Further the VoiceXML browser may obtain information from the end user of the mobile device and or the land line phone by speech recognition and keypad entry e.g. DTMF detection.

The VoiceXML browser interacts with the MRCP TTS Server and the MRCP Speech Recognition Server . MRCP stands for Media Resource Control Protocol which is a communication protocol that allows speech servers to provide various speech services such as speech recognition speech synthesis and TTS to its clients. The MRCP TTS Server provides TTS services to its clients and the MRCP Speech Recognition Server provides speech recognition services to its clients.

Computer Telephone Integration CTI data are sent from the hosted vendor systems to a CTI Management Server . CTI is a technology that allows interactions on a telephone and a computer to be integrated or coordinated. As contact channels have expanded from voice to email web and fax CTI has expanded to include the integration of all customer contact channels voice email web fax etc. with computer systems. Common functions that may be implemented using CTI are for example call routing call information display with or without using calling line data phone control answer hang up hold conference etc. automatic dialing and computer controlled dialing etc.

Furthermore application requests are sent from the VoiceXML Browser to a VoiceXML Application Server and the requested VoiceXML application is delivered from the VoiceXML Application Server to the VoiceXML Server . The CTI Management Server and the VoiceXML Application Server are both part of the client systems .

More and more people use intelligent mobile devices such as cellular phones PDAs or iPhones as a means of communication. These intelligent mobile devices become more and more sophisticated due to for example increased computing power or memory capacity and due to for example the availability of mobile Software Development Kits SDKs such as Java Platform Micro Edition Java ME or Apple s iPhone SDK. This may lead to decreased reliance on teleservices companies that are built on standard telephony technology. More particularly this may lead to decreased reliance on hosted environments for IVR applications for example.

The present invention in exemplary embodiments overcomes the above disadvantages and other disadvantages not described above. Also the present invention is not required to overcome the disadvantages described above and an exemplary embodiment of the present invention may not overcome any of the problems described above.

Thus in one aspect the present invention is directed to a Mobile Voice Self Service MVSS system that includes an MVSS mobile device a client system and a vendor media resource system. The MVSS mobile device has an application browser to request and process an application. The client system has an application server to deliver the requested application to the application browser. The vendor media resource system provides advanced Media Resource Control Protocol MRCP services to the application that is being processed by the application browser.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to an MVSS hosted vendor system that includes a MRCP Speech Recognition Server a MRCP TTS Server and a Media Resource Gateway. The MRCP Speech Recognition Server provides Automatic Speech Recognition ASR services to an application browser that is implemented on an MVSS mobile device and that processes an application. The MRCP TTS Server provides Text To Speech TTS services to the application browser and the Media Resource Gateway facilitates communication of the MRCP Speech Server and or the MRCP TTS Server with the application browser.

In yet another aspect the present invention is directed to a method for incorporating image map interactions to accept user input in a VoiceXML application. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is embedded within a VoiceXML document and the URL loads a fragment of HTML code that represents an image and an accompanying image map defined via a map HTML tag.

The present invention may allow companies requiring only a basic DTMF only IVR application to host their VoiceXML application on their existing web infrastructure and provide users of mobile devices access to the same IVR functionality that would normally need to be provided by an outsourced vendor. Companies requiring more advanced features as part of their IVR application may still benefit from the present invention by moving the call handling and VoiceXML processing off of a hosted platform and only using an outsourced vendor to perform advanced features such as speech recognition natural language or text to speech. Alternatively the present invention may allow companies to move both basic DTMF only IVR applications and IVR applications with advanced features off of the hosted platform to their existing web infrastructure.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

Given the rapidly increasing processing power of mobile devices and the availability of mobile SDKs a hosted application browser of the related art such as a hosted VoiceXML browser may be moved directly to an end user s mobile device. In other words an application browser such as a VoiceXML browser and other associated components may be deployed as a mobile application and implemented on the mobile device to allow a VoiceXML application to be processed directly on the mobile device. This concept may also be known as Mobile Voice Self Service MVSS .

MVSS may provide the benefit of reduced cost or in the case of simple applications no hosting cost to companies for example. In addition the end user features that MVSS provides may allow applications to become more user friendly.

The MVSS system shown in illustrates a mobile device client systems and vendor media resource systems . An Application Browser may interacts with a Call Data Manager and a Media Resource Gateway all of which may be included in the mobile device . The mobile device may communicate with the client systems or the service vendor s media resource systems via a broadband or wireless connection. The mobile device may be for example a cellular phone a PDA or an iPhone and may operate for example in a CDMA or GSM network. The mobile device may also include a GPS component to provide for example location based services to the user of the mobile device .

The client systems may include a VoiceXML Application Server and a CTI Management Server whereas the vendor s media resources systems may include an MRCP Speech Recognition Server a Media Resource Gateway and a MRCP TTS Server .

The Application Browser of the mobile device may be a VoiceXML 2.1 compliant browser with a minimal memory footprint and minimal processing overhead. Unlike the VoiceXML browsers used in a hosted environment in the related art the Application Browser or VoiceXML browser may only need to be able to handle one call. Therefore the required processing power is significantly reduced. In addition the VoiceXML browser may be able to handle a majority of the call flow required to provide an IVR application to the user of the mobile device . The VoiceXML browser may send application requests to the VoiceXML Application Server and the requested VoiceXML application may be delivered from the VoiceXML Application Server to the VoiceXML browser .

The Call Data Manager may communicate important telephony events to the client systems in particular to the CTI Management Server . Such telephony events may include for example set up deliver ringing establish answer clear hang up end hold retrieve from hold conference transfer forward etc. When a legitimate call is being processed on the mobile device the call data provided by the Call Data Manager may be used in conjunction with data of the VoiceXML Application Server to authorize access to advanced MRCP features. The advanced MRCP features may include automatic speech recognition ASR that may be provided by the MRCP Speech Recognition Server or Text To Speech TTS that may be provided by the MRCP TTS Server for example. Proper authentication may be important because MRCP features may be charged per transaction by the vendor. Also the Call Data Manager may be important with respect to transfers. Transfers that usually depend on a carrier s advanced features may need to be implemented by other means so it may be necessary for User to User Information UUI and other call data to be transferred out of band.

The Media Resource Gateway may provide advanced services such as ASR or TTS to the application by bridging communication between the VoiceXML browser and the MRCP services. As part of authorizing communication to media resources MRCP requests from the VoiceXML browser may be directed through the Media Resource Gateway . The gateway layer may handle authentication and then host the MRCP communication through the established channel. The MRCP Speech Recognition Server may provide the ASR services to the VoiceXML browser and the MRCP TTS Server may provide the TTS services to the VoiceXML browser . If the mobile device is capable of processing speech or generating TTS on its own resources not requiring vendor specific handling may be passed off to the mobile device by the Media Resource Gateway thereby saving the application provider additional advanced service fees.

To facilitate the configuration of MVSS components prior to running a VoiceXML document a Mobile Voice Self Service configuration file may be used. This file may be an xml based configuration file that contains the configuration settings of the Media Resource Gateway and the Call Data Manager as well as the URL of the intended VoiceXML target.

Having a unique file type for voice applications targeted to mobile devices may also be useful in allowing seamless integration of MVSS into a web environment. A mobile device may automatically launch the MVSS application when the user follows a link that provides MVSS content. The format of such a file may be defined published and validated via standard xml validation methods.

Simple blind transfers may be accomplished by allowing the MVSS application to access the phone s system APIs Application Programming Interfaces to simply dial the transfer number. More complicated transfers may require functions that may be unavailable within the realm of the mobile device s capabilities on the mobile carrier s network. To implement these transfers may require dialing a toll free number that has carrier advanced features and then utilizing CTI data to execute the transfer.

The following may be exemplary applications of MVSS that may be advantageous to for example the end users vendors service providers companies and clients involved.

With respect to access to IVR applications in the case of MVSS the user may be allowed to access applications via web URLs rather than phone numbers. A client s site may list individual URLs for each subsection of their application giving the user direct access to billing or technical support features without the need for the client to have individual phone numbers for each service. Having direct access to the VoiceXML interpretation allows the user to easily pause the IVR and it may be relatively simple to provide a complete range of controls a user would normally be accustomed to with other media such as fast forward rewind etc.

Instead of having to rely on the application s menu repeat options the user may interact with the browser instructing it to scan through a prompt in reverse go back to the beginning of the current prompt or menu or even go to a previous menu and either accept the user s original response again or provide new input. To support such features when it comes to application reporting it may be beneficial to create new VoiceXML events that the browser can handle so reporting can accurately reflect the user s navigation. shows an exemplary illustration of MVSS VoiceXML Navigation.

Having direct access to the call flow data may allow implementing user defined hotkeys or bookmarks in a VoiceXML application. If the user would like to return to a portion of an application at a later time he or she may press a hotkey capture button which may then suspend the running VoiceXML application. The MVSS browser may store the current state and the input required to reach that state. After speaking or entering a bookmark identifier the application may resume normally. At a later time the user may request access to the bookmark and this may instruct MVSS to load the application and automatically proceed to the bookmarked state if modifications to the applications do not prevent it. In the case where the application has been modified MVSS may provide a message to the user indicating the bookmark needs to be updated present the user with the prompt where the application changed and wait for the user to indicate that he or she has once again reached the point in the application the user wishes to bookmark.

Location based services is another area in which having the MVSS browser running directly on the mobile device may be of advantage. Providing location based information to customers may mean to add more value in the mobile realm. Rather than relying on complicated data exchanges to determine the location of the caller the browser may directly access the device s GPS or tower based coordinates and pass them on to the application server. This may all be done as part of the initial request to the application server. Self service applications may then be catered for the caller s current location prior to even the first prompt.

Multimedia resources as illustrated for example in may be referenced within the VoiceXML application allowing the mobile device to display supplemental data during the progress of the call. This may be utilized by providing an image of the caller s current billing statement when the caller requests payment information by providing a video clip of the steps required to reset a satellite receiver when the caller is requesting technical support or even by launching a web page with a registration form when the caller wants to enroll in some special program. There may also be the branding aspect that may be important to many companies so a company logo customer notifications or advertising may be displayed on the mobile device while working with their IVR.

In the VoIP world it may be common for a conference call to be presented along with video conferencing or a shared desktop for a presentation. MVSS may add functionality in the voice self service world because the multimedia may also interact back with the IVR. For example if the caller has a question about their bill MVSS may display the caller s recent billing statement on the screen and allow the user to select the billing line item the caller has a question about and say What is this charge Again due to the fact that the VoiceXML interpretation is happening locally on the caller s phone the act of selecting an item on the screen may be passed to the browser as input without complex data exchanges. This sort of interaction may be simplified because MVSS is just a single system that accepts multiple forms of input.

MVSS technology may be an industry standard that may be implemented by mobile device builders as part of their devices core features.

There may be several versions of MVSS to support various mobile device architectures. Open development environments like Java ME may aid in that sort of development but each device may require its own special development for its unique features or hardware.

Further image map interactions as a means of accepting user input may be incorporated in a VoiceXML application. In a URL embedded within a VoiceXML document may load a fragment of HTML code representing an image and an accompanying image map defined via a map HTML tag. An image may be displayed on the display of the user s mobile device with clickable regions that are specified by the image map. Therein a clickable region of the displayed image may be mapped to a user input string of a URI that may be formatted as for example wtai mvss prompt id input.

A prompt id that is used in the clickable regions may be comprised of session information and a prompt identifier in order to associate a click event to the correct form input. Input provided for a clickable region may be either a DTMF tone represented as or a text string for example. A URI with a protocol specified as wtai mvss may be directed to the VoiceXML browser and processed internally by the browser.

As will be recognized by those skilled in the art the innovative concepts described in the present application can be modified and varied over a wide range of applications. Accordingly the scope of patented subject matter should not be limited to any of the specific exemplary teachings discussed above but is instead defined by the following claims.

