---

title: Thermodynamic device for reducing target strength
abstract: A device for deflecting acoustic waves for an object in a liquid environment includes a power source located in the object. A heating grid and a cooling grid are positioned about the object in the liquid environment such that the heating grid is located between the object and the cooling grid. A heat pump is joined the power source, the heating grid and the cooling grid. The heat pump is capable of removing heat from said cooling grid and adding heat to said heating grid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09091750&OS=09091750&RS=09091750
owner: THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
number: 09091750
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120918
---
This application is a divisional application and claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 844 211 filed on Jul. 27 2010 and entitled Device for Reducing Target Strength of an Underwater Object by the inventors Anthony A. Ruffa and John F. Griffin.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention is directed to a device for reducing target strength of an object submerged in a fluid. According to the invention the device produces a region in the fluid exhibiting a high temperature gradient that induces localized bending of sound rays directed at the object away from the object to thereby effectively cloak it from acoustic detection.

An acoustic cloaking device generally has two main characteristics 1 it does not generate significant acoustically sensible reflections and 2 it bends sound rays directed toward the object sufficiently so that the rays avoid the object being cloaked.

An exemplary acoustic cloaking device may be in the form of a solid spherical shell having selected acoustic properties. While it is difficult to design such a device which will avoid reflections it is possible to tailor the acoustic properties to achieve a measureable bending of incident acoustic rays.

A sphere having a radius r can be acoustically cloaked with a spherical outer shell having a radius a and a thickness b a. The shell may be formed of a meta material having effective densities and in the respective radial r and azmuthal directions as follows 

Meta materials may be realized with voids containing resonant spring mass systems. At their resonant frequencies the internal masses do not move in unison with the bulk material thereby changing the momentum and thus the effective mass in the corresponding direction. Such meta materials are envisioned with resonant inclusions in porous composite materials.

A device employing meta materials acting as an acoustic cloak would likely only work in a narrow frequency band. Such a device would likely be defeated by a broadband waveform. In addition in an underwater environment the properties of meta materials may change or vary with pressure temperature and the like thereby possibly reducing performance or rendering the device inoperable.

The speed of sound in a fluid varies with temperature. illustrates in graphical form the speed of sound c m s in seawater at atmospheric pressure and at a salinity S of 35 parts per thousand PPT versus temperature T C. . At atmospheric pressure and salinity in parts per thousand PPT the speed of sound c is governed by the expression 1449.2 4.6230.0546 1.391 35 . . . 3 where S is the salinity in parts per thousand PPT .

Applying Snell s Law to each in the limit sound bends continuously towards the region of slower speed. The curvature k of a ray deflected by the continuously changing gradient speed c in a medium follows the expression 

Conventional sonar shown in uses an acoustic pulse to detect an object having an outer surface located in an underwater environment . An incident acoustic ray is directed towards the object from a source and is reflected as ray . The reflected ray is then sensed by a detector. An uncloaked or unshielded object is relatively easy to detect by conventional sonar when the object produces strong reflections i.e. when it has a relatively high target strength. The effectiveness of conventional sonar may be significantly reduced by absorbing or deflecting incident rays thereby reducing the target strength of the object.

The invention is based on a region or band of fluid having a temperature gradient sufficient to result in a speed of sound different than the ambient fluid. A large temperature gradient could shield or deflect most acoustic rays away from a target object. While acoustic rays normal to the object will strike it the overall effect is to reduce the target strength or reflections of oblique rays by at least an order of magnitude .

In one embodiment for an object submerged in seawater the cloaking device when energized produces a relatively narrow band or region of water proximate to the object having a relatively large temperature gradient sufficient to deflect incident or incoming acoustic rays away from the object. In such an environment an exemplary temperature gradient Tof at least about 30 C. mm is sufficient to deflect acoustic rays directed towards the object.

The cloaking device comprises a heating grid and a cooling grid in closely spaced relation. The heating grid is proximate to the object and the cooling grid is spaced outwardly of the inner grid. In the arrangement noted above the heating grid heats the water near it to about 40 C. and the cooling grid cools the water near it to about 10 C. . The heating grid can include high resistance wires or the high temperature side of a Peltier effect device and the cooling grid can include a cooling device e.g. a device employing electrical conductors exhibiting when energized the Peltier effect which cools the water. The spacing between the heating and cooling grids is relatively small i.e. about 1 mm so that a band of water is established in the space between the grids having temperature gradient of 30 C. per mm. The temperature gradient is effective to change the speed of sound in the water by about 60 m s over the 1 mm spacing of the grids. In an embodiment where the object is motion a heating grid alone is sufficient to produce the desired temperature gradient.

In an exemplary embodiment a heat pump is employed to drive a heating grid and a cooling grid to establish the required heating and cooling functions of the inner and outer grids. In such embodiment the inner grid is a condenser coupled to a pump and the outer or cooling grid comprises an evaporator coupled to a throttle valve. The pump or compressor is joined between the condenser and the evaporator a throttle or expansion valve is joined between the evaporator and the condenser and a power source is joined to the pump. The condenser is operatively connected to the pump for discharging heat. The evaporator is operatively connected to the throttle valve for receiving heat. The inner grid and outer grid are in closely spaced relation for producing the region having the desired temperature gradient.

In yet another embodiment the heating grid comprises a screen of high resistance wire. In the embodiment the grid has a shape conformal with the object. The screen is formed of relatively thin current carrying conductors and is operative when energized with an electric current for heating the underwater environment to produce the high temperature gradient sufficient for producing localized bending of the sound rays away from the object to thereby cloak it. When the object being cloaked is in motion the heating grid is always moving into undisturbed water which is at the ambient temperature. Thus a cooling grid becomes unnecessary because the required gradient is formed between the undisturbed water at ambient temperature and the heating grid at an elevated temperature.

In another embodiment the heating and cooling grids are provided on opposite sides of a solid state device wherein a plurality of series connected p type semiconductor elements and n type semiconductor elements each have inner and outer surface portions for heat exchange with the seawater. The inner surface portions of the semiconductor devices produce cooling when energized and the outer surface portions of the semiconductor devices produce heating when energized.

In the various embodiments the devices employed for producing the desired effects are generally transparent to incident acoustic rays meaning that the target strength of the devices is low relative to the target strength of the object being cloaked.

As illustrated in there is shown an object having a surface positioned in the underwater environment . A device for producing an acoustic cloak is provided proximate to the object in the path of incident or incoming acoustic rays . The cloak deflects incident rays away from the object . The cloak is defined as a relatively narrow band of seawater proximate to the object having acoustic properties or characteristics sufficient to cause localized bending of the sound rays away from the object . In the exemplary arrangement the object has a central axis A and the cloak is disposed proximate to the object along the axis and conformal with the surface of the object as shown.

As noted above the speed of sound c in a fluid e.g. seawater is variously affected by a number of parameters including temperature T and salinity. In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention a selected region of the fluid is heated or cooled or both in order to provide in the band a temperature gradient Tsufficient to cause the incident rays to be deflected away from the object . A temperature gradient of at least about 30 C. mm appears to be sufficient to deflect the incident rays and thereby significantly reduce the target strength of the object to reduce the effectiveness of conventional sonar.

The underwater environment has an ambient temperature T and cloak creates a temperature gradient Tdiffering from the ambient temperature. The cloak is further defined as a region or volume of water proximate to the body having an inner boundary and an outer boundary and being interposed between the body and a source not shown of incident acoustic rays . The outer boundary is spaced from the outer surface of the object to be cloaked. The inner boundary is intermediate the outer surface and outer boundary and generally conforms to the outer surface of the object . The inner and outer boundaries and are spaced apart by a distance or thickness s. The cloak has a temperature gradient Textending between the respective inner and outer boundaries over the distance s.

As illustrated the cloak comprises a narrow region in the underwater or ambient environment wherein the speed of sound c in the cloak changes with respect to the speed of sound in the surrounding ambient seawater . As the incident acoustic ray encounters the outer boundary or interface between the cloak and ambient seawater the temperature gradient Tin the cloak causes a change in the speed of sound at the outer boundary sufficient to cause the incident ray to be deflected away from the object resulting in a deflected or refracted ray

The temperature gradient Tsufficient to bend incident rays may be produced by heating or cooling or both heating and cooling the underwater environment at or near one or the other or both of the boundaries and . The temperature gradient Tis effective to cause the incoming acoustic ray to bend in a direction away from the object in accordance with Snell s Law referred to above. If bending is sufficient the incident rays are either deflected as rays away from the object so that no reflections are produced or the angle of the incident rays is changed so that the reflected rays have reduced sensible energy thereby reducing the target strength of the object .

In the illustrated embodiment the cooling grid outer grid is located near the outer boundary and the heating grid inner grid is located near the inner boundary .

The cooling grid and the heating grid are each positionable in heat transfer relation with the ambient seawater . When energized the heating grid heats the water near immediately near it at the inner boundary and the cooling grid cools the water immediately near it at the outer boundary resulting in a temperature gradient in the region between the inner and outer boundaries sufficient to deflect incoming acoustic rays.

In the object is shown in motion in a direction indicated by arrow . A heating grid is effective by itself to establish cloak having a temperature Tgradient sufficient to deflect incoming acoustic rays directed at a moving object . In this embodiment heating grid can be in the form of a mesh screen formed of woven electrical conductors coupled to a source of electrical power . The conductors have electrical properties and are sized such that when energized by the power source the heating grid produces a temperature gradient Tof at least about 30 C. mm which is sufficient to deflect incoming acoustic rays. The size and spacing between the woven conductors is selected so that the grid is acoustically unreflective when compared to the outer surface of the object and thus represents a negligible target strength compared to the resulting cloaked target strength of the uncloaked object. In other words the conductors and grid is effectively transparent to the incoming rays and it does not reflect energy sufficient to significantly increase the target strength of the object.

In an embodiment using a heat pump is shown. Object to be cloaked contains a power source joined to a pump or compressor . The pump increases the pressure in a working fluid such as Freon ammonia water or any other acceptable working fluid and provides the high pressure working fluid at a pump output . Pump output provides the pressurized working fluid to the condenser which acts as the inner grid. The condenser gives up heat warming a layer of seawater around the object . The cooler high pressure working fluid returns to the object and enters a throttle valve at an input . Throttle valve reduces the working fluid s pressure. The working fluid is provided to throttle valve output . Throttle valve output is joined to an evaporator which acts as the outer grid. Evaporator absorbs heat in a layer of seawater around the object . Heated low pressure working fluid then enters the pump at a pump input . Thus condenser and evaporator create cloak having a temperature gradient. The condenser and evaporator lines are closely spaced with respect to each other for defining the relatively narrow cloak of seawater exhibiting the desired temperature gradient sufficient to bend the path of the acoustic rays directed toward the object. In this embodiment the condenser and evaporator must not be significantly acoustically reflective and must allow heat transfer between the working fluid and the environment .

Inner surface portions of each of the p type device or n type device operate as a heat discharging portion of the thermoelectric device thereby operating as a heating grid for the device . The outer surface portions of each of the respective p type and n type semiconductor devices and operate when energized as a heat absorbing device for cooling the ambient seawater as a cooling grid. Together the inner surface portion and outer surface portion establish cloak proximate to the object which has a temperature gradient Tsufficient to cause localized bending of acoustic rays away from the object . In another embodiment heating grid could be augmented by providing resistance heating elements.

The invention described by example in this specification can be configured differently within the scope of the claims. For example in inner boundary could be a structure that is warmed by a triggered exothermic chemical reaction. Outer boundary could be a structure that is cooled by a triggered endothermic reaction. Furthermore heating and cooling grids do not need to be spherical or cover the entire surface of the object being cloaked. Accordingly this invention should not be limited by any of the specifically shown embodiments. In light of the above it is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

