---

title: Providing content via multiple display devices
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for providing content via multiple display devices. Primary content is rendered on a first display device. A secondary display service executed by a second computing device is identified. A directive is sent to the secondary display service to render secondary content on the second display device. The secondary content relates to a current state of the primary content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389745&OS=09389745&RS=09389745
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09389745
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121210
---
Users may access content through a computing device having a single relatively large display such as a digital television. Interacting with such a device may be cumbersome. For example providing textual input to the digital television may involve an on screen keyboard that uses arrow buttons on a remote control to select the keys. Further it may be difficult to provide additional information about the content being rendered due to readability aesthetics or other concerns.

The present disclosure relates to providing synchronized content via a primary display device and one or more secondary display devices. A primary display device may correspond to a digital television a smart television a video game console coupled to a display device a set top box coupled to a display device a projection device and or other forms of computing devices that may be coupled to relatively large displays. For a variety of reasons it may be desirable to present content supplemental to that being shown on the primary display device through one or more secondary display devices. Such secondary display devices may correspond to tablet systems smart phones electronic book readers laptop computers and or other devices.

With reference to shown is an exemplary scenario involving a networked environment according to various embodiments of the present disclosure which provide an extended display for a primary display device through the use of one or more secondary display devices . The secondary display devices present content and or user interfaces that are synchronized in some way to the content and or user interfaces shown on the primary display device.

According to the non limiting example depicted in when a user selects a text input box in a user interface rendered on a digital television corresponding to the primary display device an on screen keyboard may be rendered on a touchscreen of a tablet corresponding to the secondary display device . The user interface rendered on the digital television corresponds to primary content while the on screen keyboard shown on the tablet corresponds to the secondary content that supplements the current state of the primary content in some way. This may facilitate relatively easy text entry as compared to a pointer or arrow keys on a remote for the digital television. As another non limiting example when a user watches a movie or other video content on a digital television corresponding to a primary display device supplemental content relating to cast members biographies filmographies trivia on screen goofs etc. may be shown on a tablet corresponding to a secondary display device at a time relative to the current point in the movie. This allows the supplemental content to be rendered on an extended display so as to avoid interfering with the rendered movie on the primary display.

Various techniques relating to providing extrinsic data in connection with video content features are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 227 097 filed on Sep. 7 2011 entitled SYNCHRONIZING VIDEO CONTENT WITH EXTRINSIC DATA U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 601 267 filed on Aug. 31 2012 entitled ENHANCING VIDEO CONTENT WITH EXTRINSIC DATA U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 601 235 filed on Aug. 31 2012 entitled TIMELINE INTERFACE FOR VIDEO CONTENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 601 210 filed on Aug. 31 2012 entitled PROVIDING EXTRINSIC DATA FOR VIDEO CONTENT all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes a computing environment one or more primary display devices and one or more secondary display devices in data communication via a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing environment may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively the computing environment may employ a plurality of computing devices that may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For example the computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together may comprise a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the computing environment may correspond to an elastic computing resource where the allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources may vary over time.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing environment according to various embodiments. Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing environment . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below.

The components executed on the computing environment for example include a content server application and other applications services processes systems engines or functionality not discussed in detail herein. The content server application is executed to serve up data corresponding to the primary content the secondary content and or other data. The content server application may send data using protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP real time transport protocol RTP real time streaming protocol RTSP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST and or other protocols. For example the content server application may comprise a commercially available HTTP server such as Apache HTTP server Apache Tomcat Microsoft Internet Information Services IIS and or other servers.

The data stored in the data store includes for example primary content data secondary content data and potentially other data. The primary content data may correspond to the primary content and may comprise video content features such as movies and television programs network pages and or other forms of content. The secondary content data may correspond to the secondary content which may supplement or augment the primary content in some way. For example the secondary content may provide more detailed information regarding an item from the primary content that is currently selected. The secondary content data may comprise video audio images network pages and or other data.

The primary display device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The primary display device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a digital television a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The primary display device includes a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The primary display device may be configured to execute various applications such as a primary display service and or other applications. The primary display service may be executed in a primary display device for example to access primary content data served up by the computing environment and or other servers thereby rendering the primary content on the display . The primary display service may for example include a video player a browser a mobile application etc. and the primary content may correspond to a video content feature a network page a mobile application screen etc. The primary display device may be configured to execute applications beyond the primary display service such as for example browsers mobile applications email applications social networking applications and or other applications.

The secondary display device is representative of a plurality of client devices that may be coupled to the network . The secondary display device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a digital television a desktop computer a laptop computer personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones set top boxes music players web pads tablet computer systems game consoles electronic book readers or other devices with like capability. The secondary display device includes a display . The display may comprise for example one or more devices such as liquid crystal display LCD displays gas plasma based flat panel displays organic light emitting diode OLED displays LCD projectors or other types of display devices etc.

The secondary display device may be configured to execute various applications such as a secondary display service and or other applications. The secondary display service may be executed in a secondary display device for example to access secondary content data served up by the computing environment and or other servers thereby rendering the secondary content on the display . The secondary display service may for example include a video player a browser a mobile application etc. and the secondary content may correspond to a video clip an audio clip a network page a mobile application screen etc. The secondary display device may be configured to execute applications beyond the secondary display service such as for example browsers mobile applications email applications social networking applications and or other applications.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin one or more primary display services may be configured by users. For example a user may associate a primary display device with an account provided by the content server application . One or more secondary display devices may then be registered with the primary display device to provide an extended display for the primary display device . In one example a user may explicitly configure identifying features e.g. media access control MAC address internet protocol IP address security credentials etc. for each secondary display device with the primary display service to perform registration. In another example the secondary display device s may be registered with the primary display service by way of push button pairing or another approach.

In some cases a user at the secondary display device may select a primary display service from a plurality of primary display services corresponding to a plurality of primary display devices . In one example a user may explicitly configure identifying features e.g. media access control MAC address internet protocol IP address security credentials etc. for each primary display service with the secondary display service to perform registration.

A user may then select primary content to be rendered on the primary display device . The primary display service obtains the corresponding primary content data from the content server application and or local storage. The primary content is then rendered on the display by the primary display service . The primary content may or may not have supplemental secondary content . If the primary content is associated with secondary content the secondary content may be rendered by the secondary display devices . Where different types of secondary content exist the user may designate different ones of the secondary display devices to render the secondary content .

When secondary content is to be rendered the primary display service may send a directive to the designated secondary display service . Alternatively the directive may originate from the content server application . The directive may be based at least in part on the current state e.g. temporal position currently rendered content etc. of the primary content that is being rendered by the primary display service .

Upon receiving the directive the secondary display service may then obtain the secondary content data and render the secondary content on the secondary display device . It is noted that there may be a master slave relationship between the primary display device and the secondary display device as far as the primary content may control the display of the secondary content . The secondary display service may render a user interface for presenting the secondary content . For example responsive to receiving the directive the secondary display service may launch a new window for presenting the secondary content . Alternatively a user may launch the window in advance of receiving the directive for presenting the secondary content and the window may be updated in response to the directive. In some cases such a window is rendered only when needed and may be automatically minimized or hidden when user notification or user input is not needed. In one example the secondary display service may cease rendering the secondary content in response to determining that communications with the primary display device have been interrupted e.g. the primary display service or the secondary display service is out of range on a local network portion of the network .

The secondary display service may update the secondary content in response to user input or automatically e.g. in response to expiration of a predefined time period in response to receiving a further directive or in response to another predefined condition being met. In updating the secondary content additional secondary content data may be obtained. In some cases user input may be obtained by way of the secondary display service and sent to the primary display service and or the content server application . The user input may be used to control at least in part the rendering of the primary content by the primary display device .

Several scenarios for use of the networked environment will next be described. For example may view a network page or other screen using a primary display device and the page or screen may include a text input field. If a secondary display device e.g. a tablet with a touchscreen is registered as a secondary display for the primary display device a directive may be sent to the secondary display service on the secondary display device to render an on screen keyboard for entering text. The text may be obtained from the secondary display service by the content server application or the primary display service and provided as input for the text input field. Alternatively if no appropriate secondary display device is registered the primary display service may be configured to render an on screen keyboard for use with a pointing device attached to the primary display device . In other words when the secondary content cannot be rendered by a secondary display service the primary content may be adjusted to accommodate the lack of a secondary display service .

As another example a movie or other video content feature may be rendered as primary content by the primary display service . Additional information about the cast members currently on screen may be rendered as supplemental secondary content by the secondary display service . As the primary content advances temporally a directive related to the current state of the primary content may be sent to the secondary display service and or the content server application to enable the secondary content to be updated and or synchronized with what is being shown on the primary display device . For example when a particular song is being played in the primary content a detail page with a link to download the particular song may be surfaced as secondary content on the secondary display device . Also when a character in a video content feature corresponding to primary content is wearing a particular pair of sunglasses an offer for selling the particular sunglasses may be secondary content .

In one embodiment while a video content feature is being rendered as primary content on the primary display device controls for the video content feature may be rendered as secondary content on one or more secondary display devices . Such controls may include play pause fast forward reverse and so on. A directive to render the controls may be sent to the secondary display device along with current state information regarding the video content feature e.g. name current temporal position total length etc. Upon selection of one or more controls user input may be sent back to the content server application and or the video content feature. The user input may be employed to control the playback of the video content feature. In some cases a preview screen for the video content feature may be rendered as secondary content on the secondary display device .

As yet another example a user may be browsing a list of items such as products services downloads etc. on the primary display device . As the user selects a particular item a directive to render detailed information about the item may be sent to the secondary display device . In other words the primary content may correspond to a category listing search result listing wish list listing watch list listing etc. Conversely the secondary content may correspond to a listing of items that are relevant to the primary content being rendered. For example when viewing a detail page regarding a particular item on the primary display device a listing of similar or other recommended items may be rendered on the secondary display device .

In various embodiments the secondary display devices may implement a social experience. For example users at one secondary display device may interact with users at another secondary display device regarding primary content being shown on a primary display device . One user may view a trailer for a video content feature corresponding to the primary content while another user may view cast biographical information corresponding to the primary content .

Communications may be peer to peer between the secondary display devices and or client server between the secondary display devices and the content server application or between the secondary display devices and the primary display service . In one embodiment user input received from one secondary display device may influence a directive to render secondary content that is sent to another secondary display device . For example user input obtained from a secondary display device rendering an on screen keyboard may result in the update of a listing of items rendered on a different secondary display device that is registered with the same primary display device .

In one embodiment primary content may be transferred to a secondary display device and secondary content may be transferred to a primary display device . For example a video content feature may be rendered on a primary display device and a user may request that the video content feature be rendered instead on the secondary display device . In response to the request the corresponding primary display service and or the content server application may send a directive to the corresponding secondary display service to render the primary content in place of the secondary content . The directive may specify a temporal location in the primary content so that the primary content remains synchronized when transferred from the primary display device to the secondary display device . The primary display device in response to the request may then cease displaying the primary content and may in some cases begin rendering the secondary content where left off by the primary display device .

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the primary display service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the primary display service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the primary display device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the primary display service generates a list of secondary display services . For example the primary display service may detect all secondary display services coupled to a local network registered to a user account in the computing environment paired with the primary display service and or otherwise available for detection. In box the primary display service obtains a selection of a secondary display service . For example the primary display service may render a user interface on the display containing a listing of the detected secondary display services and the user may enter a selection from the listing. In one embodiment the listing may include icons or other indicia representing the corresponding secondary display devices of the secondary display services .

Such a selection may be stored for future use by the primary display service . In one embodiment the selection may be stored in association with a user account in the computing environment . In some cases multiple secondary display services may be selected. If multiple secondary display services are selected each may be employed to render the same or different types of secondary content .

In box the primary display service obtains primary content data from a content server application . Alternatively the primary content data may be stored or cached in data storage coupled to the primary display device . In box the primary display service renders the primary content from the primary content data on the display . In box the primary display service determines whether there is secondary content for the current state of the primary content . If there is secondary content for the current state of the primary content the primary display service proceeds to box .

In box the primary display service sends a directive to the selected secondary display service to render secondary content corresponding to the current state of the primary content . The secondary content may supplement augment or otherwise be relevant to the current state of the primary content . In one embodiment the directive may comprise a uniform resource locator URL or other instruction relating to obtaining the secondary content data from the content server application . In another embodiment the directive may be accompanied by secondary content data being sent directly from the primary display service .

In box the primary display service determines whether user input is to be received from the secondary display service . For example where the secondary content comprises an on screen keyboard a list of items and or other content that elicits user input user input may be received. If user input is to be received the primary display service moves to box and obtains the user input from the secondary display service . The primary display service then continues to box . If the primary display service instead determines in box that user input is not to be received the primary display service also continues to box . If the primary display service instead determines in box that secondary content is not to be rendered for the current state of the primary content the primary display service also continues to box .

In box the primary display service determines whether the primary content has finished. If the primary content has not finished the primary display service returns to box and continues rendering the primary content on the display . If instead the primary content has finished the portion of the primary display service ends.

Turning now to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the secondary display service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the secondary display service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the secondary display device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning with box the secondary display service generates a listing of primary display services . For example the primary display services in the listing may comprise those primary display services that are reachable by the secondary display service via a local network associated with a user account paired and or are otherwise discoverable by the secondary display service . A user account or local network may have multiple primary display devices e.g. one television in a living room another television in a media room and so on. In box the secondary display service may obtain a selection of one of the primary display devices . In box the secondary display service registers as a secondary display for the selected primary display service . In some cases a pairing operation or other handshake may be performed between the secondary display service and the selected primary display service .

In box the secondary display service obtains a directive to render secondary content related to primary content being rendered by the selected primary display service . In one embodiment the directive may be received from the primary display service . In another embodiment the directive may be received from a content server application . In box in response to the directive the secondary display service may obtain secondary content data from the content server application and or the primary display service . In some cases the secondary content data may be stored or cached by data storage attached to the secondary display device . In box the secondary display service renders the secondary content corresponding to the secondary content data in response to the directive.

In box the secondary display service determines whether user input is to be obtained. For example the rendered secondary content may elicit user input e.g. text to fill out a form a user selection of an item from a list of items and so on. If user input is to be obtained the secondary display service proceeds to box and obtains the user input by way of an input device e.g. touchscreen touchpad keyboard mouse etc. In box the secondary display service sends the user input to the primary display service and or the content server application . The secondary display service continues to box . If the secondary display service instead determines in box that user input is not to be obtained the secondary display service also continues to box .

In box the secondary display service determines whether another directive to render secondary content is to be obtained. If another directive is to be obtained the secondary display service returns to box and obtains another directive to render secondary content . If another directive is not to be obtained the portion of the secondary display service ends.

With reference to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing environment according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing environment includes one or more computing devices . Each computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end each computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor is the content server application and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

Moving on to shown is a schematic block diagram of the primary display device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The primary display device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor a memory a display all of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the primary display device may comprise for example at least one television or like computing device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor is the primary display service and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor .

With reference to both it is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C Java JavaScript Perl PHP Visual Basic Python Ruby Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and or multiple processor cores and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the content server application the primary display service the secondary display service and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the primary display service and the secondary display service . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the content server application the primary display service and the secondary display service that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

