---

title: Method and system for facilitating controlled access to network services
abstract: An approach for enabling controlled access to a limited set of remote services associated with a device is described. A controlled access platform determines one or more network access descriptors to associate with a calling application of a device configured to access a remote service via a communication network. The controlled access platform initiates a limiting of the calling application to one or more allowed network interaction types with a remote service or a network access component associated with the device based on a profile for defining one or more allowed network interaction types between the calling application and the remote service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106666&OS=09106666&RS=09106666
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09106666
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121031
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been the development of services and technologies for enabling secure use of various applications and services made available to devices e.g. desktops mobile devices etc. . Many computing devices are susceptible to viruses breaches and other forms of malicious attack that can impact the performance and safe usage. In certain situations however the user may require use of the device even when they suspect or have indication that the device may have been breached i.e. continued access to various features of a financial application or service for carrying out a critical financial transaction. Unfortunately there is currently no convenient means of enabling the user of the device to have targeted controlled access to various services and applications of the device while also maintaining a high level of security.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for controlled access to a limited set of remote applications associated with a device.

An apparatus method and software for enabling controlled access to a limited set of remote services associated with a device are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

As mentioned many applications and user devices especially those capable of interfacing with a communication network are susceptible to security breaches. With the spread of computer viruses worms back door algorithms and other types of malicious security schemes there are instances where a user may require use of their device despite the security condition. For example the user may need to use an application on their mobile device while they are on the go in order to complete a critical task i.e. due to lack of access to their work computer. Under this scenario the user may wish to access certain features of the application for a limited time therefore requiring only a limited number or type of remote service calls.

One approach to accomplishing this is traffic filtering wherein one or more static rules are applied to the device for defining the allowable network interactions. This approach is not effective for most device users considering the high level of technical expertise required to configure such a scheme. Also this approach is further complicated given the complexity of the forwarding mechanisms associated with some network services many of which employ content delivery networks CDN or other network components and schemes that may not be compatible with a fixed set of rules.

Another approach is to attempt to audit or correct the security breach by installing and or running resolution software such as a security threat removal tool . However given that some of the attacks e.g. virus key logger algorithm or other malicious code can interfere with or prevent the resolution software from detecting and resolving the issues there is a possibility technical professional intervention is required. Accordingly the time duration between the detection of the security concern and resolution of the concern can be considerably long.

As yet another approach a dynamic filtering scheme may be employed for enabling controlled access to network services based on the identity of flows initiated from the device presumed trusted . However this is still not a feasible solution considering that some of the device configurations may have been maliciously manipulated to facilitate unwarranted behavior and or communications. Unfortunately there is currently no convenient means of enabling the user of the device to employ targeted controlled access to various services and applications of the device while also maintaining a high level of security.

To address these issues system of introduces a controlled access platform which is configured to facilitate network connectivity to a limited set of remote applications or services associated with user devices . By way of this system a user is able to resume access to one or more network services in a controlled manner such that a known security risk of the user device is minimized thus enabling user device to continue working with only the preferred applications and or corresponding network services identified by the user. For the purpose of illustration the remote applications or services are referred to herein collectively as services while the user devices are referred to herein collectively as user devices . As noted the services may be called upon by a calling application referred to herein collectively as applications which are installed onto or accessible e.g. as a cloud or hosted solution by the devices .

In certain embodiments the controlled access platform maintains profile information for affecting the mode of operations of a user device and corresponding application thereof with a network service . By way of example the profile information specifies details regarding the user devices the users of said devices and various network descriptors for defining one or more allowable network interactions. Allowable network interactions may include any application or service tasks deemed by the user as necessary to be performed for execution of an application need and or despite the presence detection of an adverse security condition. For the purpose of illustration the profile information may be activated and or called for execution by the controlled access platform in response to the detection of a security condition e.g. a data breach or virus detection . Alternatively the profile information may be activated and or called manually by a user of the device such as to accommodate a certain mode or type of use of the application e.g. to perform a data sensitive task or in response to the detection of a security condition by the user. Calling execution of a profile per the profile information enables restricted activation of select features of an application in connection with a corresponding remote service .

The profile information or profile may include identifier data pertaining to the devices such as a user identifier subscriber identifier or device identifier. In the context of a subscription model wherein the users of devices register subscribe with the controlled access platform the profile information may be established during initial registration. By way of example the registration subscription may be performed as an independent procedure or as an extension to an already existing service. In the latter case for example a high speed internet access service provider may offer access to the controlled access platform as a value added feature to its existing customers. It is noted that the procedure may be carried out by way of telephone online data entry or any other means.

Per the registration procedure the profile may specify one or more user preferences such as a preferred means of contacting the subscribed device for confirming activation of a profile i.e. in response to a security or usage need. The preferred means of contact may include short messaging service SMS email or the like. Still further the profile may specify the allowed access types for configuring or updating a profile such as by phone or via online access. It is noted that a user may create multiple different profiles for accommodating different application and or service usage contexts or for handling different security conditions relative to a given user device . However only a single profile can be active for use in connection with the user device at any given time.

The profile may also reference or include data for specifying one or more rules of engagement between the user devices and or calling application thereof with a corresponding network service . Rules are enforced by the controlled access platform based on the referencing of one or more network access descriptors or descriptors associated with the different applications . In certain embodiments the network access descriptors may include a set of values such as the IP address or set of IP addresses and transmission control protocol TCP or user datagram protocol UDP port numbers associated with an application. This may include data contained in fields in the IP and transport layer headers of data transmitted by the application for calling out to or accessing the various remote services . In addition the network access descriptors may further include fields such as a quality of service QoS indication or priority marking. It is noted that the network access descriptors for an application or corresponding service may be dynamic and therefore dependent upon the user IP address adaptations in network configurations and other factors.

The profile may also specify one or more IP entities or circuits thereof that are associated with the user device registered with the controlled access platform . Per this scenario the profile may specify the IP addresses and corresponding network channels port numbers assigned to the configured IP entities. The IP entity corresponds to a network access component or node that is associated with an IP address the user device employs for accessing the service via the network . The type of IP entity associated with the device depends on the network connectivity service of the network provider. For example the user device may be configured to the service provider network via an asynchronous transfer mode permanent virtual circuit ATM PVC or an Ethernet virtual local area network VLAN that terminates on a network element such as a Broadband Remote Access Server BRAS . It is noted that the designated IP entity may therefore correspond to an IP termination point of the network .

As such the rules associated with a given profile permits controlled accessing of the IP entities at their respective termination points. Under this scenario the IP entities serve as enforcement elements of the profile wherein said enforcement elements are selectively restricted and or allowed to provide network access as a means of restricting and or allowing application calling of one or more services . It is noted that the IP entity may be any type of network access component including a packet data network gateway that serves as a network access component for a smartphone a broadband router configured for a home based wireless network or the like.

For the purpose of illustration an exemplary profile record is shown below in Table 1. This profile corresponds to an instance where a user registers for example a digital signal line DSL system and wireless device with the controlled access platform .

In order to register the IP entities for association with a profile the user may provide their data service account identifier to the controlled access platform during the registration procedure. The controlled access platform then retrieves the corresponding circuit information topology information from the provider accordingly such as by way of a query procedure. In addition the controlled access platform may interface with an operations support system OSS of the service provider network which maintains the IP entity and circuit topology information for retrieving the information via a query procedure. The query may be submitted as a request for the following information as shown in Table 2 below 

The topology response as received from the OSS system may include the following information per Table 3 

It is noted that the request and response for the topological information as related to the IP entities network access components may be generated according to various formats. For example the request may be submitted as an extended markup language XML message or other format.

As noted when a user activates a profile the controlled access platform limits the communications associated with the user IP entity to a pre identified set of remote applications. Hence enforcement of this limitation requires that the IP entity be provided the network descriptors associated with the calling application e.g. IP address or addresses and port numbers or port number ranges associated with each application on a particular device . In certain embodiments the descriptors corresponding to the applications services and corresponding IP entities e.g. enforcement elements are associated with the profile based on an acquisition procedure. By way of example the acquisition procedure enables the controlled access platform to account for differences in delivery approaches between the services capable of being accessed by a calling application . This includes for example delivery approaches wherein traffic as generated by the service is forwarded through the use of content delivery network CDN cache appliances domain name server DNS manipulation geographic based schemes etc. It is noted that the acquisition procedure is conducted during user registration with the controlled access platform during an updating process or subsequently at the discretion of the user.

The means of acquisition of the descriptors is based on the type of application and or service to be called. A first class of application referred to herein as a configured application features a software interface for retrieving the descriptors from the corresponding service s . Per this class the services are able to be queried by the controlled access platform for initiating the retrieval. A second class of application referred to herein as a guest application does not feature any such interface for retrieval of the descriptors . Per this class the services do not feature an interface for enabling automated retrieval of the network access descriptors and are able to be retrieved based on an emulation procedure.

In certain embodiments the configured applications may include those prearranged to interact with the controlled access platform via an interface element. The applications may include for example a social networking email or banking application as provided by an application provider which may in some instances also be the provider of services . The application may be acquired by the user via a download or push procedure wherein it is already configured as controlled access platform compliant. According to this arrangement the application provider supplies the controlled access platform provider with the needed information regarding the application IP addresses used to provide service to the requesting user IP address and or possible ranges thereof. It is noted that the service provider is best positioned to provide such information. For example if the traffic delivery associated with the service as called by the application involves CDN forwarding the application provider either operating its own CDN or utilizing a CDN provider has the details regarding the cache selection rules as well as the IP addresses allotted to respond to a particular user IP address.

For a wired internet access service the user device having operable thereon the calling application is typically allocated a dynamic IP address from a pre configured pool of IP addresses maintained by the network provider. Accordingly it is possible to predict the range of source IP addresses that can be used by a particular user subscriber. As such the controlled access platform must have sufficient information to identify all the IP addresses a subscribed user with a particular IP address to which the user s device and or IP entity is connected may communicate with in the context of a particular remote service . As such the interface enables the controlled access platform to submit a query request to the service . In particular the query is submitted to the interface corresponding to each of the configured applications loaded onto or accessible by the user device . Table 4 below presents exemplary request types as submitted per the query by the controlled access platform .

Resultantly the services associated with the configured applications that receive the query respond back to the controlled access platform with the following information as shown in Table 5 below 

While the query procedure as described above is directed to the applications it is noted in certain embodiments that the query may alternatively be directed to the services . For example the services may also communicate with the controlled access platform via the interface. It is also noted that the aforementioned request and response procedures may be generated according to various formats e.g. as an extended markup language XML input output message.

In certain embodiments the guest applications may include those that are not prearranged to interact with the controlled access platform via an interface element. This may include for example applications offered by application or service providers not willing to provide the descriptors or that are not yet registered and or implemented for interaction with the controlled access platform . As such an emulation procedure is required for accessing or deriving the network access descriptors rather than automated retrieval. The emulation procedure enables the controlled access platform to identify the descriptors without support from the application provider. Of note the emulation procedure may be performed for a period of time or evaluation of an application or for a predetermined number of application calls service calls.

By way of example the controlled access platform allows device users to access the guest applications and interact with them through an emulator i.e. a tool that emulates the application usage and or operating system environment of the user device . The emulator may be graphical or command line based and the controlled access platform may provide the user with a number of different utilities to choose from. This may include for example a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP client a secure shell SSH client a Telnet client or a customized application client. A customized application client is a utility that has the needed support with appropriate protocols and functionality to communicate with a remote service. The remote service may provide this customized application client to the provider of the controlled access platform for integration purposes. As the user interacts with the guest application on service through this environment the controlled access platform analyzes the traffic exchanged between the user device and the guest applications via the emulation environment. This includes monitoring and analyzing the various calls or application executions required for accessing different remote services that may be called by the different utilities in the emulation environment. Hence the platform extracts the network access descriptors .

The emulation procedure may be initiated by the user such as during registration of the application with the controlled access platform . By way of example the user is provided with a pass code to enable access to the emulation environment via the controlled access platform . For security purposes the pass code can be delivered to the subscribed user by way of a phone call or text message from a provider of the platform . Once received the user enters the pass code into an entry interface e.g. web based and waits for confirmation that the emulation environment customization for the user and their respective user device has been completed.

Only traffic associated with completing the registration process is allowed into the emulation environment and only traffic associated with the emulation tool is allowed to be directed towards the remote services as called by the different utilities in the emulation environment. It is noted that per this environment application traffic originates and terminates between the emulation environment and the remote service . The controlled access platform is provisioned with an IP address that is as close as possible to the IP address associated with the IP entity of the user for accessing the service provider network .

In the case where the IP entity is related to a stationary computing device such as a desktop computer the emulation environment IP address can be selected from the same pool associated with the subscriber user IP management entity. For example the IP address pool may be associated with the broadband router access server BRAS that is providing service to the user device desktop . This information is made available to the controlled access platform as a result of the initial circuit identification process described previously.

In the case where the IP entity is related to a mobile device such as a wireless tablet device or smartphone the IP address information may be related to the current gateway e.g. PDN GW to which the user device mobile device is associated. This is typically dependent upon the area where the mobile device is located. In one embodiment therefore the provider of the network to which the user device is subscribed may provide the information on the appropriate enforcement point directly to the platform . Under this scenario the information can be retrieved via a location mapping function LMF which is an element within the network that can be queried to supply information related to the current location. This may include for example a Mobility Management Entity MME for a particular generation of mobile network access of the like.

It is noted that the controlled access platform may operate in connection with a regional controller not shown corresponding to the location of the mobile device for carrying out the query. The regional controller may be configured to interact with the automated mapping function AMF of the controlled access platform to collect information regarding the user IP addresses and the appropriate enforcement points. The regional controller also applies the appropriate limiting rules to the different enforcement elements.

The controlled access platform adapts to the wired and wireless network design associated with the service provider network . For example the network provider may require the regional controller to communicate only with the policy and charging rules function PCRF and not with the enforcement elements. The controlled access platform may receive information related to operation of the enforcement element. It is noted that the regional controller is thus responsible for transactions with a set of enforcement points i.e. for example based on geographical distribution.

The controlled access platform associates itself with the IP entity enforcement element e.g. the BRAS or the PDN GW that provides service to the mobile device in its current position. As such traffic generated from within the emulation environment is associated with the identified enforcement element and traffic is forwarded in a similar manner. The subscriber is then instructed to invoke use interact with the guest applications one at a time including connecting to and or calling any remote services accordingly. As a result network access descriptors are extracted from the traffic including the application IP address and the corresponding transport layer port numbers. The platform also records the FQDN Fully Qualified Domain Name associated with the DNS queries related to the application and the traffic exchanged with the called remote services . By way of example the platform keeps track of those FQDN entries and associates them with the guest application in question for the user device . A single guest application may be associated with multiple FQDNs. Once extracted the profile is updated and or merged to include the guest network access descriptors and this information is used to provision the appropriate enforcement point per the rules .

In certain embodiments the controlled access platform periodically instructs the emulation environment to initiate DNS queries for the FQDN associated with the user profile . This execution is performed to ensure the DNS to IP association is consistently updated within the profile and is completed without user intervention. This enables the controlled access platform to accommodate changes in IP addresses on the application side or as required for accessing various remote services .

In certain embodiments the controlled access platform updates the corresponding filtering rules e.g. updates the enforcement elements as specified via the profile based on the gathered network access descriptors IP entity and circuit and network topology data. The controlled access platform then compiles all the information associated with the application into the profile . For the purpose of illustration a compiled profile record is shown below in Table 6.

In certain embodiments the controlled access platform associates a time stamp with the various network access descriptors. The time stamp enables the platform to track when a particular network access descriptor is added to the user profile . By way of this approach the controlled access platform has a configurable parameter for determining whether the network access descriptors are current. Older descriptors specified within a profile may be set to expire in particular for the case of guest applications after a period of time. Upon expiration the controlled access platform may perform a query for updating the descriptors in the case of a configured application or prompt user initiation of the emulation procedure in the case of a guest application . Activation of a profile and thus enforcement of various rules in connection with an application service or associated enforcement elements IP entities of a device is dependent upon the relevance of the network access descriptors . Hence the amount of time elapsed since the addition of a descriptor to a user profile may be adjusted accordingly via the controlled access platform .

It is noted that maintenance and tracking of the time stamp enables the controlled access platform to balance the need for user device security and selective functionality. For example if an application IP address or other descriptor is added to a user profile at one point but failed to be added to the profile during a subsequent update this indicates an infrastructure change on the service side. Accordingly the entry is removed from the profile for the corresponding application as it is not valid for the configurable period of time. For configured applications the time stamp may be kept for the overall set of applications of the device given that the controlled access platform is responsible for maintaining the descriptors automatically. In contrast for guest applications the time stamp is maintained for each IP address or IP address range. In addition to time based enablement of a profile the user of a device may also opt to activate or deactivate a profile for a particular application and or corresponding service at their discretion.

In another embodiment once the descriptors are acquired and associated with the user profile identifying which IP addresses and ports are allowed this information is mapped into provisioning statements appropriate for the IP entity in which the enforcement rules will apply. The enforcement rules correspond to those for establishing limited accessing of services by an application per the network . Hence as discussed earlier the IP entity is usually the component within the network topography circuit of the user device that is responsible for allocating the IP addresses e.g. BRAS for a high speed internet service such as DSL or a PDN GW for certain generations of wireless devices .

The rules that correspond to the user profile are associated with an object on the enforcement element such that per user traffic limiting is possible. For example in the case of a BRAS as the enforcement element the interface associated with the user ATM PVC or the Ethernet VLAN which is associated with the subscriber dynamic IP address is mapped by the controlled access platform as an object to apply the rules to. In the case of a wireless device the tunnel object associated with the subscriber bearer is an appropriate object to associate with the rules on the PDN GW. Table 7 below is an example of a provisioning statement for applying the appropriate rules per the profile . For the purpose of illustration the example is based on a DSL subscriber associated with an ATM circuit on a BRAS.

Per this example the ALLOW IP Packet Source string references the specific network access descriptor to be allowed upon activation of the profile for the associated IP entity. The Local string is a reference to the dynamic IP address currently assigned to the user. The IN string refers to application of the traffic filtering action in the IN direction from the outside going into the subscriber domain . Also the OUT string refers to application of the traffic filtering action in the OUT direction from the subscriber domain and going outside .

Still further the DENY ALL string references the dropping of all packets except those explicitly allowed in previous ALLOW statements. The Other needed services string references any ports needed for successful internet access and other related services such as dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP domain name service DNS etc.

The controlled access platform forwards the command set to the regional controller not shown which communicates with the enforcement element s e.g. the corresponding IP entity and applies the provisioning commands accordingly. Alternatively the network provider may configure the controlled access platform to provide the provisioning commands to the OSS which is responsible for the overall provisioning of the enforcement point . The OSS in turn applies those provisioning commands to the enforcement element or enforcement point within the circuit network path as instructed.

After the controlled access platform receives a confirmation that the provisioning commands are in place the subscriber is notified that the profile activation process has been completed. By way of this approach when the user activates their profile the provisioning commands are applied to the interface on the enforcement element. Similarly when the controlled access platform deactivates their profile the provisioning commands are also removed or deactivated.

In certain embodiments the controlled access platform must account for changes in the enforcement point or corresponding element over time due to mobility of the user device . For example the correlation between mobility events and the change of the enforcement point depends on the configuration of the service provider network and or the mobile device technology. To address this issue the controlled access platform must be able to identify if there is a need to change the enforcement point over time. If determined the provisioning commands are then applied to the new enforcement element currently handling the subscriber i.e. a PDN GW or any other mobility support component associated with the area where the mobile device is currently residing.

By way of example there are two approaches by which the controlled access platform may access the enforcement information. In a first approach the information about the appropriate enforcement element may be retrieved directly from the network provider mobile services provider . Under this scenario a location mapping function LMF element within the network may supply information related to the current location associated with the device e.g. the Mobility Management Entity MME in the LTE environment . In this approach the controlled access platform provides the LMF with the identity of the subscribed user devices and the LMF continues to provide information on the current PDN GW providing service to the device .

The controlled access platform retrieves the corresponding circuit information topology information from the provider accordingly such as by way of a query procedure. The query may be submitted as a request for the following information per Table 8 below 

The topology response as received from the OSS system may include the following information per Table 9 

For the second approach the controlled access platform instructs the regional controller to query the AMFs of the service provider network to acquire the information on which IP entity e.g. the PDN GW is currently providing the service to the mobile device. The regional controller then forwards the information to the controlled access platform in response to the query. Under this scenario AMF elements of the service provider network with no information about the subscriber will not provide updates to the regional controller.

The event update from the AMF to the controlled access platform may include the following information as shown in Table 11 below 

The above request and response procedures may be generated according to various formats e.g. as an extended markup language XML input output.

It is noted that the controlled access platform enables the enforcement of various rules per a profile for specific applications and remote services associated with a user device . To ensure seamless execution of an application or device during the restricted operation period the controlled access platform may be triggered to troubleshoot issues such as when the user device is not able to use an application configured or guest application that previously worked. As another example the troubleshooting may occur when a packet drop is observed on the subscriber specific filter on the enforcement point. Various other conditions may also be observed for triggering a troubleshooting condition of the platform .

The controlled access platform may be implemented for execution within a service provider network. According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system SS network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions. The controlled access platform may be further interfaced with external networks including those of third party content providers by way of various network interface and sharing arrangements and policies.

Still further networks may embody various content delivery networks for facilitating the delivery of traffic to user devices on behalf of a corresponding service . In addition the networks may include various components for facilitating interaction with the user devices . By way of example the network may include one or more regional controllers for interacting with an address mapping function AMF of the network. Also the networks may be supported by one or more of the following technologies or systems for enabling device connectivity and tracking Radius Diameter Broadband Remote Access Servers BRAS packet data network gateways PDN GW Policy and Charging Rules Functions PCRF mobility management entities MME and the like.

According to exemplary embodiments one or more of the user devices may be utilized to communicate over system and may include any customer premise equipment CPE capable of sending and or receiving information over one or more of networks . For instance a voice terminal may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. whereas mobile device or terminal may be any cellular phone radiophone satellite phone smartphone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Further the user devices may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc. In certain embodiments the user devices referred to herein collectively as user devices may further execute various applications 

It is noted that the controlled access platform may be activated by a user of a device in response to a security condition of the device . For example the user may activate a profile associated with a particular application upon determining a potential security threat or data breach occurrence. In another example the user may opt to invoke the profile to accommodate different usage conditions i.e. when the user is employing a sensitive application or wishes to allow another user to employ an application on a limited basis. Alternatively certain applications may be configured to automatically invoke activation of a profile upon detecting a security condition. For example when a virus condition is determined a security or protection application of the user device may be configured to invoke execution of the profile .

In addition the controlled access platform also maintains profiles as generated based at least in part on one or more descriptors pertaining to various applications and remote services of a user device. It is noted the modules of the controlled access platform may access databases and for performing various executable functions.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and corresponding user devices for interaction with the controlled access platform . The authentication procedure may be established a first time via a subscription process then later executed by the subscribed device for enabling profile activation. By way of example the subscription procedure may include user entry of contact information device information and user device usage preferences. In addition the user may specify which applications a profile is to be created for as well as the specific rules to be associated with each command and or function of the application or remote service. The authentication module may therefore operate in conjunction with the descriptor updating module for enabling automatic retrieval of network access descriptors for configured applications . Alternatively the authentication module operates in connection with the emulation module for extracting network access descriptors in response to a determination that the application is a guest application.

In one embodiment the control module controls the operations of the various other modules of the platform including triggering execution of different modules accordingly. For example the control module identifies which services and or applications are configured with an interface element for facilitating access to the descriptors configured and which are not. In the case of the configured applications where the interface is implemented the control module triggers execution of the descriptor updating module to facilitate retrieval of the descriptors from the accompanying service or application. In addition the descriptor updating module retrieves updated descriptors in instances where the timestamps associated with previously determined descriptors are out of date e.g. based on a predetermined amount of time elapsed . Under this scenario the updating function may be performed periodically by the module with the periodicity being established by the user as per the subscriptions procedure.

In the case of guest applications however where no interface is present for the application the control module facilitates execution of the emulation module . In certain embodiments the emulation module enables user activation of an emulation environment via one or more different emulation utilities. By way of example utilities may include a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP client a secure shell SSH client a Telnet client or a customized application client. As the user interacts with the guest application within this environment the module then analyzes the traffic exchanged between the user device and the guest applications and extracts the network access descriptors accordingly.

The control module further calls upon the mapping module . In one embodiment the mapping module submits the location information request to a location mapping function LMF element within the network . For example in the case of a long term edge LTE wireless network a Mobility Management Entity MME may be queried accordingly. The mapping module further determines topological information regarding the one or more IP entities associated with a given user device for which to establish enforcement. The mapping module retrieves the corresponding circuit information topology information from the provider accordingly such as by way of a query procedure. In addition the controlled access platform may interface with an operations support system OSS of the service provider network which maintains the IP entity and circuit topology information for retrieving the information via the query procedure.

It is noted that the request and response procedures as per the queries may be generated according to various formats e.g. as an extended markup language XML input output. For example in Table 12 an exemplary XML schema message for requesting topology information from an OSS of the network provider is presented as follows 

The control module also enables updating and or compilation of the profile such as in response to the descriptors as acquired by the emulation module or descriptor updating module along with the topology information. The control module may generate an alert or notification for indicating that the profile is updated and available for a given application of the user device .

In one embodiment the enforcement module causes a provisioning of the rules as established via the profile at the respective IP entities associated with the user device . By way of example the profile is mapped into provisioning statements appropriate for the IP. The enforcement module may facilitate the provisioning by way of a regional controller of the network . Alternatively the network provider may configure the controlled access platform to provide the provisioning commands to the operations support system OSS which is responsible for the overall provisioning of the enforcement point. The OSS in turn applies those provisioning commands to the enforcement element or enforcement point within the circuit network path as instructed. As noted the enforcement rules correspond to those for establishing limited accessing of services by an application per the network .

It is noted that when the user activates their profile the provisioning commands are applied to the interface on the enforcement element e.g. IP entity accordingly by the enforcement element . Similarly when the controlled access platform deactivates their profile the provisioning commands are also removed or deactivated by the enforcement element accordingly.

In one embodiment the user interface module facilitates generation of various interfaces for enabling users to interact with the controlled access platform . This includes for example generation of a login interface for enabling user registration and or access to the platform . In addition the module may provide a configuration interface for enabling users to generate profiles . By way of example the user interface module may generate different user interface elements for selection by registered users. It is noted that the user interface module may be activated by way of various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls at a computing device of the third party content provider.

In one embodiment the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between the controlled access platform and the applications and or user device . In addition the communication module enables generation of signals for communicating with various elements of the service provider network including various gateways mapping functions policy configuration functions and the like. Also the communication module may be able to connect with an interface element of an application or IP entity enforcement element for retrieving descriptors or for enabling submission of queries per the mapping or enforcement modules and respectively.

The above described modules and components of the controlled access platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the controlled access platform may be implemented for direct operation by various components of the service provider network. As such the platform generates direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the network access point. In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation as a platform maintained as a hosted or cloud based solution.

In step of process the controlled access platform detects that a controlled access service is needed for example by receiving an explicit trigger from the user or detecting a condition of the device associated with the calling application. In another step the platform determines one or more network access descriptors to associate with a calling application of a device configured to access a remote service via a communication network. As noted previously the network access descriptors may include an IP address of a network access component associated with the device or as related to the calling application.

In another step the controlled access platform associates the one or more network access descriptors with a profile for defining one or more allowed network interaction types between the calling application and the remote service. Per step the platform also initiates a limiting of the calling application to the one or more allowed network interaction types with the remote service or a network access component associated with the device based on the profile. It is noted the limiting of the calling application is based on the condition i.e. as detected per step . As noted previously the condition may be a security condition or an application usage condition or a trigger from the user.

In step of process the controlled access platform determines activation of a secure emulation mode of operation of the device. The emulation environment may be executed by way of a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP client a secure shell SSH client a Telnet client a customized application client or any other terminal services tool. In step the platform monitors one or more network interaction types between the calling utility application and the remote service during the secure emulation mode of operation. As noted previously the secure emulation mode of operation is active for a predetermined period of time or for a predetermined number of network interaction types.

Per step the controlled access platform collects based on the monitoring the one or more network access descriptors. As noted previously the one or more network access descriptors include a network address or a network channel associated with the calling application or the remote service a network access component associated with the calling application or the remote service or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments the network access descriptors may include a set of values such as the IP address or set of IP addresses and transmission control protocol TCP or user datagram protocol UDP port numbers associated with an application. This may include data contained in fields in the IP and transport layer headers of data transmitted by the application for calling out to or accessing the various remote services . In addition the network access descriptors may further include fields such as a quality of service QoS indication or priority marking.

In step or process the controlled access platform determines a time stamp associated with each of the one or more network descriptors. As noted previously the time stamp enables the platform to track when a particular network access descriptor is added to the user profile and whether the descriptor is valid e.g. within an acceptable time of use relevance for the application or accessible for retrieval extraction per decision step . When determined not to be valid or accessible per decision step and the application is determined to be a configured application per decision step the controlled access platform disassociates the network access descriptor from the profile when the amount of time since the time stamp is determined to exceed an effective time of use of the network access descriptor for the calling application. This corresponds to step . In another step such as in the case of a configured application that is capable of being queried the platform then retrieves the one or more updated network access descriptors per step .

In the case of a guest application per decision step the user is instructed to go through a subsequent emulation procedure corresponding to step . In another step the platform then associates the updated network access descriptors with the profile based on the retrieval.

It is noted that the above described approach provides the controlled access platform with a configurable parameter for determining whether the network access descriptors are current. Older descriptors specified within a profile may be set to expire in particular for the case of guest applications after a period of time thus ensuring the enforcement procedure is always up to date.

In a login interface of the controlled access platform is presented. This interface is accessed by way of a web link corresponding to the controlled access platform and is loaded to enable user registration e.g. via link with the platform or updating of a profile . Under this scenario the login interface includes fields and respectively for permitting a user e.g. consumer to enter their user identifier and password. These credentials correspond to those established by the system after first time registration. To activate the login procedure the user may select the GO action button while the EXIT action button is selected when the user is ready to exit the interface . Once the credentials are verified the user may be presented with a configuration interface .

In the configuration interface presents various user selection options for allowing the user to modify update or create a profile for the different applications of the device . Some of the applications such as an event sharing application and finance application are configured applications while a travel route planning application is a guest application not configured . In the case of the configured applications and the user is presented with checkboxes e.g. checkbox for selecting the entire application as one to be restricted from accessing various remote services in response to activation of a profile. Alternatively the user may select a list all link for enabling the rendering of a list of the specific remote executions associated with the application the executions being presented by name along with corresponding network access descriptor information e.g. descriptors . From this list the user can then select individual remote executions to be enabled and or disabled in relation to a profile.

By way of example the event planning application features various remote executions which when activated result in the calling of different remote services. Per the list an execution named PIC SHARE corresponds to a picture sharing service that is accessible to application via exemplary IP address and port information 76.XXX.62.YY PORT 6 where the characters X and Y represent numeric values corresponding to an IP address and the character represent a numeric value corresponding to a port number. Another execution named ANNOUNCER corresponds to an event notification service that is accessible to the application via IP address and port information 75.XXX.61.YY PORT 23 . Still further an execution named SYNCHRO corresponds to a synchronization service that is accessible to the application via IP address and port information 76.XXX.50.YY PORT 8 9. The user may opt to select the checkbox corresponding to each individual execution or only certain ones. Under this scenario the user is able to customize the specification of which features of the application are to be enforced for enablement or disablement.

Activation of a checkbox signifies the corresponding execution is to be restricted from operation upon activation of a profile. In contract non activation unchecking of a checkbox signifies the corresponding execution is to be permitted upon activation of the profile. It is noted that the network descriptors e.g. for each execution with the list is presented to the user automatically for the configured applications. Retrieval of this information corresponds to a query procedure of the controlled access platform as performed upon entry to the configuration interface. In the case of the guest application however the network descriptors for the application must be acquired via an emulation procedure. As such an EMULATION action button is presented to the interface for enabling a user to invoke an emulation environment.

Also shown are update links and for applications and respectively. The update links and enable the user to specify the frequency of refresh of the network access descriptors for a given application. Under this scenario the event planning application is set to an AUTO update frequency while the financial application is set to a weekly update cycle. The provider of service may inform the controlled access provider about the recommended frequency. Still further the user is presented with an option to allow certain applications to automatically invoke a profile. For example upon activation of checkbox a corresponding virus protection or security application of the user device may call for execution of a specific profile in response to detection of a security condition of the device .

A node list is also presented for depicting and or listing the various IP entities enforcement elements that are associated with the user device and or the corresponding applications. Under this scenario the mobile device accesses a network via a gateway e.g. PDN GW device corresponding to an IP address of 12.XXX.01.YY. This information is presented to highlight the various enforcement elements and points to which the corresponding enforcement rules per selection or deselection of a checkbox correspond to.

A field is also presented for enabling the user to enter a profile name to associate with the settings as configured for a given application or set thereof. It is noted that the profile name may subsequently be selected from a profile activation list for enablement of the restricted rule set as configured. The user may select a SAVE NEW or EXIT action button and respectively for storing the profile as named creating a new profile or exiting the configuration interface .

In an emulation mode of operation is depicted. For the purpose of illustration the emulation environment is invoked by way of an XYZ Emulator tool in response to selection of the EMULATION action button . As noted this option is selected for enabling user configuration of the route planning guest application . The XYZ Emulator tool is presented in this example as a graphical based tool via interface .

Having established the emulation procedure an analysis function of the controlled access platform is invoked for monitoring collecting and subsequently determining the various descriptors associated with the application based on user interaction with the corresponding application service. By way of example the fast route application is a travel planning and productivity application that enables the user to import to do lists from designated online calendar services then generate customized automated navigation routes for completing the list entries. As such the import function corresponding to invocation of action button results in calling of a service for retrieving task to do information from different calendar services of the user. Access to the service corresponds to network identifiers e.g. IP addresses and protocol ports needed for successful transactions.

In addition a merchant discount service is accessed for correlating the to do list items with various coupons offers and incentives which include the accessing of information from a database at exemplary location yy.xxxx.xx.yy. Still further selection of a GO action button corresponds to the accessing of a mapping service at exemplary network location xx.xxxx.xx.yy which is used to generate an optimized route map for accomplishing of the task. It is noted that as the user interacts with the application via the emulator to invoke these functions the IP addresses corresponding ports and other descriptors are gathered and subsequently used to compile a profile relating to this application.

In a user interface corresponding to the finance application of the mobile device is depicted. The figures depict different means of activating a profile once configured for a given application. Under this scenario a profile labeled PROFILE has already been established for this application per the configuration interface of . Hence in one scenario a security application of the device detects a potential security threat and renders a notification message to the display. The notification message presents the user with YES or NO action buttons and respectively for permitting the security application to invoke the profile. When the user selects the YES action button this activates the profile and therefore enables the user to continue operating the financial application in a secure but restricted limited mode of operation. By way of example the user may be permitted to only access a mutual fund transaction record from their financial institution based on their established profile settings. Similarly the profile may restrict the function of the application for downloading the latest stock market values by blocking submission of the index reporting service at the network gateway. Hence per the established profile only certain financial transactions are allowed to be performed while the security application is allowed to troubleshoot or correct the security breach.

In another means of calling for execution of the controlled access platform is depicted through manual activation. For example as the user interacts with the financial application via interface the user may initiate the platform . Under this scenario the user selects an activation option button which further causes rendering of a profile selector slide scroll . The user can slide the scroll between different profile name positions e.g. from left to right to the specific profile they wish to execute for the financial application in question. By way of this approach a user may activate a profile at anytime to accommodate for different application usage conditions.

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enables controlled access to a limited set of remote services associated with a device. In particular a controlled access platform enables user customization and selection of specific remote executions to be performed during operation of an application.

The processes described herein for enabling controlled access to a limited set of remote services associated with a device may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multiprocessing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein for to enable controlled access to a limited set of remote services associated with a device. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

