---

title: Control pool based enterprise policy enabler for controlled cloud access
abstract: A method for controlling access to a Cloud, comprising receiving traffic from an Enterprise user at a gateway, wherein the traffic carries a first key specific to the Enterprise user for use internal to the gateway, replacing the first key with a second key, wherein the second key is a Cloud-negotiated key generic to a plurality of Enterprise users which permits access to the Cloud, and sending traffic to the Cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09167050&OS=09167050&RS=09167050
owner: Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
number: 09167050
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121231
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 684 022 filed Aug. 16 2012 by Kenneth Durazzo and Shree Murthy titled Enterprise Policy Enabler for Controlled Cloud Access which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Workload virtualization is a fundamental enabler for an Enterprise s transition to the Cloud. Enterprises may be any organizations which use computers comprising corporations small businesses non profit institutions governmental bodies etc. and Enterprise users may be individual users of Enterprise computers. Due to various benefits of the public Cloud i.e. a non local computing resource accessed via a network infrastructure including reduced capital expenditures CapEx scalability flexibility elasticity pay as you grow models etc. various Enterprises owners users and or administrators may wish to migrate applications and resources into the Cloud.

In the changing world of Information and Communication Technology ICT and resource virtualization public private Cloud integration is pivotal to Enterprise Information Technology IT . However security compliance transparency management and control concerns as well as the diverse nature of the associated policies make Cloud adoption challenging.

Public Clouds may be shared generic infrastructures built to support multiple users. The generic infrastructure of the Cloud may not meet the purpose built Enterprise mandated business policies transparency security and control requirements. One challenge of an Enterprise IT organization is how to take advantage of the public Cloud while a maintaining the governance and control necessary to meet the Enterprise s business requirements and b keeping the complexity of the new paradigm manageable.

In one aspect the disclosure includes a method for controlling access to a Cloud comprising receiving traffic from an Enterprise user at a gateway wherein the traffic carries a first key specific to the Enterprise user for use internal to the gateway replacing the first key with a second key wherein the second key is a Cloud negotiated key generic to a plurality of Enterprise users which permits access to the Cloud and sending traffic to the Cloud.

In another aspect the disclosure includes a method for exchanging data between an Enterprise and a Cloud comprising receiving traffic from an Enterprise user at an Enterprise Policy Enabler evaluating the traffic based on information specific to the user information specific to the resource being accessed or both applying a policy on the traffic at the Enterprise Policy Enabler based on the results of the evaluation and sending traffic to a destination Cloud.

In yet another aspect the disclosure includes an apparatus comprising a processor configured to establish an integration layer wherein the integration layer comprises an Enterprise facing control pool configured to receive data ingress from an Enterprise user apply a first policy to the data and send data to at least one Cloud and a Cloud facing control pool configured to receive data ingress from the at least one Cloud apply a second policy to the data and send data to the user and wherein changes to the policy of one control pool do not affect the policy of the other control pool.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

In one aspect the disclosure includes a single platform complete Cloud or Enterprise deployable integration layer that uses various policies and data controls to permit an Enterprise to treat one or more Clouds as an extension of the Enterprise. The integration layer may further permit one or more Clouds to specify certain access protocols and or other configurations for accessing the particular Cloud. The integration layer further permits complete isolation of the Enterprise and the Cloud s such that changing the policies protocols data controls or configurations on one side of the integration layer will not affect the other side of the integration layer. Thus the integration layer comprises two control domains or control pools e.g. one on the Cloud side i.e. Cloud facing and one on the Enterprise side e.g. Enterprise facing and the policy and control within each domain is independent of the other domain. Alternately this disclosure allows for discrete management of a deployed device by segmenting and isolating the system into two control pools one facing each entity which upon configuration will not permit either entity to control the entire system while still permitting each entity full control of their portion of the system. For example a Cloud may control and configure a Cloud facing interface an Enterprise may control and configure an Enterprise facing interface and the two configuring interfaces may share no configuration or administration data.

In another aspect the disclosure includes a configurable proxy based abstraction layer which may render Enterprise users opaque to one or more Clouds. The proxy based interface abstraction may further render one or more Clouds opaque to Enterprise users. For example in one embodiment the Enterprise authentication localized within the deployed system may be presented to the Cloud as a single opaque user thereby keeping the Enterprise users only configured within the Enterprise. Certain embodiments permit an Enterprise administrator to configure a service pool of Cloud providers such that policy attributes may guide which Cloud Enterprise users may access in a given circumstance.

In another aspect the disclosure includes a gateway based system and method for controlling Enterprise users access to one or more Clouds and thereby further preventing gateway circumvention using a Cloud negotiated key and an internal use artificial key wherein users are issued an internal use artificial key for interfacing with the gateway and the gateway securely maintains the Cloud negotiated key permitting access to one or more Clouds. The disclosure may segment the Enterprise user to Cloud transaction into three parts 1 Enterprise user to gateway 2 gateway to Cloud and 3 mapping between Enterprise user and gateway. In the first part the Enterprise user and the gateway may establish a unique security session and key the key being unique to the Enterprise user and as permanent as required by the Enterprise system administrator. In the second part the gateway may establish a session and unique key with the remote Cloud service where the key is unique to the gateway. In the third part the gateway may map the Enterprise user key and Cloud key keeping records and track of sessions. In such a system if the Enterprise user attempted to access the Cloud from a non gateway enabled area e.g. from a public WLAN the Enterprise user would be unable to establish a session because the Cloud would expect the Enterprise user key supplied by the gateway which the Enterprise user would not have. Consequently the Enterprise users access to one or more Clouds may be controlled using the gateway.

In another aspect the disclosure includes a system and method for providing granular control over an Enterprise user s Cloud bound requests based on user specific information e.g. limiting access based on download restrictions location of the user identity of the user device type e.g. mobile device vs. desktop the object resource being accessed and or other factors specific to the user. This functionality may bind intelligent policies which may reside in separate policy control points permitting aggregation and application within the gateway. These policies may be based on user or user group identity and also on properties associated with the user such as location of the user access type device type the object resource being accessed by the user etc. Using the disclosed mechanisms an Enterprise administrator may ensure that only specified users on specific devices or locations may access content stored within a particular Cloud. The disclosed system and method may accomplish the above by examining packets up to the application level by looking at different aspects of the request and or response to determine how to handle the request and or response based on static and dynamic inputs. Rather than simply prevent access to a system or network e.g. like a conventional firewall the disclosed system and method may be configured to perform additional tasks e.g. encryption of objects compression optimization traffic steering or traffic distribution based on a separate factor e.g. load factor time of day cost available bandwidth etc.

In another aspect the disclosure includes a system and method for providing granular control over an Enterprise user s Cloud bound requests based on the content of the data e.g. requiring specific storage locations based on data classification encryption compression etc. and or based on user external information e.g. Cloud loading response times throughput time of day active monitoring block. In one embodiment the abstraction may allow the policy to guide where the object should be placed for a particular service. For example the policy may provide for security services precluding placing certain objects in the public Cloud. If an Enterprise user attempted to place such objects in the public Cloud the policy may be invoked by the gateway and the object may be redirected without user knowledge or intervention to a new location. Upon subsequent retrieval of the object the end user may still be unaware that the object was not stored in the intended Cloud location but rather was rerouted to an alternate storage location. In another embodiment the disclosure provides a mechanism for Enterprise users to use a Cloud resource based on the requirements of the Enterprise user. Such embodiments may use an active monitoring entity to monitor the performance e.g. throughput response time etc. of a Cloud resource and distribute the users to best available Cloud resource based on the monitoring results. This mechanism may enable load distribution disaster recovery and or other beneficial system functionalities.

Any or all of the above aspects of the disclosed system and method may be carried out in conjunction with an embodiment of the disclosed Enterprise Policy Enabler which may also be referred to herein as an integration layer or a gateway. The Enterprise Policy Enabler may provide a set of software functions that enable multi entity configuration Cloud service abstractions and the application of aggregated Enterprise policies for Cloud based traffic. The Enterprise Policy Enabler may include a dual persona hybrid configuration model for the isolation of portions of the system configuration. The Enterprise Policy Enabler may also provide for aggregation of Enterprise policies applied to Cloud services while an Enterprise Information Technology IT administrator retains granular control over the specific users and or policies. Additionally the Enterprise Policy Enabler may provide new security models which allow the Cloud to be adopted using intelligent policies for users objects devices and traffic types.

The Enterprise Policy Enabler may be deployably disposed on any suitable device e.g. in the branch office router in the data center switch in a node of the Cloud or another network node. In a branch office split tunneling may be adopted to go directly to the Cloud rather than directing all the traffic through the data center. If so configured the Cloud enabler may ensure that the policies are consistently enforced for Cloud bound traffic. Placement of the software in the data center may ensure that all the Cloud bound traffic through the data center is subject to the Enterprise specific policies and third party provider specific service level agreements SLAs thus behaving as an intermediary for Cloud access.

The content data storage layer may be implemented using a Cloud infrastructure or service and may comprise one or more storage services and or one or more Cloud based application services . The storage services may comprise any network components or devices e.g. computers storage devices and or memory devices configured for storing data in a network or data center.

The Cloud service system may also comprise or may be coupled to one or more third parties e.g. a software as a service SaaS or an on demand streaming media provider which may publish content via one or more interfaces provided by the Cloud based application services . The third parties may optionally publish content data using any suitable device computer or network component such as servers personal computers PCs and or similar devices. The Cloud based application services may be configured to receive the content from the third parties and store the content in the storage services . The Cloud based application services may also process the content stored in the storage services e.g. via Cloud storage application programming interfaces APIs .

The content data distribution layer may comprise a plurality of routers . The routers may comprise content routers configured to route content data based on name prefixes and cache at least some of the routed content. The routers may also comprise other network nodes such as other types of routers bridges and or switches that may route data e.g. based on different routing schemes. For example the routers may also comprise routers that route Internet Protocol IP packets and or Ethernet packets based on network e.g. Media Access Control MAC and or IP addresses.

The content data consumption layer may comprise an Enterprise that may access obtain or consume content. The Enterprise may be configured to access the Cloud system service . The Enterprise may include one or more devices e.g. computers network components mobile devices e.g. smartphones and computer tablets and or similar devices connected to a LAN. The LAN may comprise a storage device or file server which may be direct access storage devices DASD coupled to one or more storage services one or more Cloud based application services and or one or more computer systems or terminals .

The content data flow in the Cloud service system may be in the direction from the content data storage layer to the content data consumption layer via the content data distribution layer as shown by the arrows in . The content data may be published to and stored at the content data storage layer routed through and at least partially cached at the content data distribution layer and then delivered to the content data consumption layer . To provide end to end network security and data confidentiality protection in storage and delivery via the Cloud the content data may also be encrypted at Cloud based storage and delivery channels where only authorized end users e.g. users at Enterprise may decrypt and access the content.

The selective redirector may selectively redirect traffic to the secure proxy e.g. a hypertext transfer protocol http proxy. The policies for selectively redirecting the traffic at selective redirector may be integrated into the platform implementing the Enterprise Policy Enabler . If the traffic flow from selective redirector is encrypted e.g. transmitted via a secure connection secure proxy may decrypt the traffic flow. Secure proxy may pass the information in clear i.e. unencrypted to the packet parser and validator e.g. an http parser a deep packet inspection DPI mechanism etc. The packet parser and validator may examine the information in clear. The packet parser and validator may extract useful information from the data packets e.g. information contained in an http header. The information extracted by the packet parser and validator may include without limitation user information a requested method a requested object a requested Cloud requested Cloud resources etc. The packet parser and validator may validate the data by ensuring that the packets are from an authenticated source e.g. by verifying that the Enterprise user has the required access key and credentials in secure identity store by verifying that the message authentication is valid etc. The packet parser and validator may optionally collect statistical information on packets and or may search for protocol non compliance viruses spam intrusions or other defined criteria to decide whether the packet may pass through to the Cloud or if it needs to be routed to a different destination. For example when an Enterprise policy disallows storage of the confidential data on a public cloud if an Enterprise user intends to store confidential data in a public cloud the packet parser and validator may reroute the confidential data to a secure storage location e.g. a private cloud. The statistical information collected by the packet parser and validator may be stored in the secure identity store . The packet parser and validator may convert the data packet information into opaque tokens. Opaque tokens may be understood as abstract objects i.e. data objects without an associated context as viewed by the rule engine . The packet parser and validator may be configured to exchange data packets comprising opaque tokens with a rule engine .

The rule engine may be a software system that executes one or more policy rules in a runtime production environment. Some actions performed by the rule engine according to its policy rules may include optionally applying security policies redirection policies Quality of Service QoS policies optimization policies and or other such policies known in the art to the traffic before forwarding. The rule engine may view the extracted elements from the tokenized data packets received from the packet parser and validator as opaque tokens and may extended the rules to other token objects e.g. user information cloud resource object location device type method operation being performed etc. as required and as discussed below. The rule engine may utilize the information contained in tokenized data packets to decide how to handle the traffic. The rule engine may also modify and or adapt the original request to suit the appropriate destination s policies using mechanisms present in adapter and cloud abstraction layer . Enterprise information technology IT administrators may configure the modifications and or adaptations as needed to ensure that the destination s SLA requirements if any are enforced before forwarding the request. The rule engine may access and use the user and the policy information present in the user policy cache as well as the secure identity store . For example the rule engine may remove origin identifying information that clearly indicates the Enterprise user e.g. header information from the traffic and replace such information with a protected origin obscuring Enterprise user identification ID which does not permit identification of the Enterprise user by the receiving party. By using a protected Enterprise user ID paradigm the Enterprise Policy Enabler may render the Enterprise user opaque to Cloud . A similar protocol may be used to control an Enterprise user s access to Cloud . If an Enterprise user is issued an internal use artificial key for interfacing with Cloud the rule engine may replace the artificial key in the traffic with a Cloud negotiated key which permits access to the Cloud . Additionally if an Enterprise user s traffic indicates a that it originates from a particular user or user class e.g. supervisor employee IT administrator etc. location e.g. the United States Europe a corporate office etc. device type e.g. mobile device desktop etc. or other user specific information b that access to a particular object resource is requested e.g. secure backup information confidential information etc. etc. or c that a specific taxonomy of data is contained e.g. classified encrypted compressed etc. the rule engine may apply forwarding or restriction rules to reroute intercept or deny traffic such access and may optionally send traffic to an alternate Cloud within Cloud when Cloud comprises a plurality of individual Clouds or to alternate Cloud resources to accomplish the request. Such rerouting may be opaque to the Enterprise user in that the Enterprise user is unaware of the rerouting.

An active monitor measurement module may be configured to receive information from one or more Cloud resources . Although depicted separately in some embodiments Cloud resources may be integral to Cloud . In embodiments wherein Cloud comprises a plurality of individual Clouds Cloud resources may be located on one or more individual Clouds. The active monitor measurement module may monitor the performance e.g. bandwidth response time latency congestion network loss gating speeds etc. of one or more Cloud resources and depending on the requirements inform the rule engine to selectively distribute the data traffic to available Cloud resources as needed to meet the requirements of the users requests and SLAs. The actions taken on the traffic at the rule engine as informed by the active monitor measurement module may be based on the business and or economic requirements of the Enterprise and may include actions defined by the Enterprise IT administrator for the Enterprise users user groups. The Existing Enterprise Infrastructure e.g. the proprietary Active Directory schema or policy definitions may be leveraged through the Enterprise Infrastructure API layer to obtain the user user group authentication and or authorization information and the Enterprise policies associated with the users. Statistical and other run time information may also be maintained by the Enterprise Policy Enabler which may be used for auditing purposes.

The network components described above may be implemented on any general purpose network component such as a computer or network component with sufficient processing power memory resources and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it. is a schematic diagram of a general purpose network component suitable for implementing one or more embodiments of the components disclosed herein. The network component includes a processor which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage read only memory ROM random access memory RAM input output I O devices and network connectivity devices . The processor may be implemented as one or more general purpose CPU chips or may be part of one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or erasable programmable ROM EPROM and may be used for non volatile storage of data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs that are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM may be used to store instructions and perhaps data that are read during program execution. ROM may be a non volatile memory device that typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM may be used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM may be typically faster than to secondary storage .

At least some of the features methods described in the disclosure may be implemented in a network apparatus or component such as a network node or unit e.g. general purpose network component . For instance the features methods in the disclosure may be implemented using hardware firmware and or software installed to run on hardware. The network apparatus component or unit may be any device that transports frames through a network e.g. a switch router bridge server etc. is a schematic diagram of a network unit which may be any device or component that transports and processes data through a network. For instance the network unit may correspond to a router bridge or switch in a network. The network unit may also comprise any suitable memory architecture. The network unit may comprise one or more ingress ports or units coupled to a receiver Rx for receiving packets objects or Type Length Values TLVs from other network components. The network unit may comprise a logic unit to determine which network components to send the packets to. The logic unit may be implemented using hardware software or both. The network unit may also comprise one or more egress ports or units coupled to a transmitter Tx for transmitting frames to the other network components. The receiver logic unit and transmitter may also be configured to implement or support the methods and or . The components of the network unit may be arranged as shown in or according to any arrangement suitable for carrying out one or more operations disclosed herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that some embodiments may include two or more network units or a separate general purpose network component working in conjunction with one or more network units .

At least one embodiment is disclosed and variations combinations and or modifications of the embodiment s and or features of the embodiment s made by a person having ordinary skill in the art are within the scope of the disclosure. Alternative embodiments that result from combining integrating and or omitting features of the embodiment s are also within the scope of the disclosure. Where numerical ranges or limitations are expressly stated such express ranges or limitations should be understood to include iterative ranges or limitations of like magnitude falling within the expressly stated ranges or limitations e.g. from about 1 to about 10 includes 2 3 4 etc. greater than 0.10 includes 0.11 0.12 0.13 etc. . For example whenever a numerical range with a lower limit R and an upper limit R is disclosed any number falling within the range is specifically disclosed. In particular the following numbers within the range are specifically disclosed R R k R R wherein k is a variable ranging from 1 percent to 100 percent with a 1 percent increment i.e. k is 1 percent 2 percent 3 percent 4 percent 5 percent . . . 50 percent 51 percent 52 percent . . . 95 percent 96 percent 97 percent 98 percent 99 percent or 100 percent. Moreover any numerical range defined by two R numbers as defined in the above is also specifically disclosed. The use of the term about means 10 of the subsequent number unless otherwise stated. Use of the term optionally with respect to any element of a claim means that the element is required or alternatively the element is not required both alternatives being within the scope of the claim. Use of broader terms such as comprises includes and having should be understood to provide support for narrower terms such as consisting of consisting essentially of and comprised substantially of. All documents described herein are incorporated herein by reference.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods might be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

In addition techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

