---

title: Persona based recommendations
abstract: Location data may be obtained through devices associated with one or more users. The actual locations and places that correspond to the location data may be inferred. Location patterns that represent when and where each user spends their time may also be determined. One or more personas that represent categories corresponding to types of behavior or location patterns that users may exhibit may be created and maintained. One or more of the personas may be assigned to or associated with each of the users based on the location patterns associated with each user and the type of behavior that is expected to be exhibited for each persona. One or more recommendations may be provided to the users based at least partly on the personas that have been assigned to the users, which may cause the users to receive recommendations that are likely to be of particular interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09406091&OS=09406091&RS=09406091
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09406091
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120312
---
Social networks and other services allow a user to share information with other users and also to monitor the actions of those users. More particularly users may exchange messages with one another specify likes or dislikes and may identify places e.g. restaurants stores etc. that the user has previously visited or is currently visiting. For instance while a particular user is physically located at a particular merchant the user may indicate to other users that the user is currently visiting that merchant. The users may access this information through a central site or through notifications that are transmitted to an account or a device associated with the users. However existing systems appear to be limited to sharing current or past locations associated with users for the purpose of informing other users of their respective whereabouts. Moreover from these physical locations other users may learn or infer various types of information about those users such as user preferences likes dislikes etc.

This disclosure describes systems and processes for providing recommendations to users based at least in part on location data derived from those users and one or more personas that are associated with those users. More particularly the systems and processes described herein may monitor the physical locations in which users have visited and identify patterns that indicate the places that the users most frequently visit. The systems and processes described herein may also create one or more personas that indicate a certain type of behavior that may be exhibited by users and that may relate to various places or locations that are associated with particular users. Based at least in part on the location patterns that are determined for the users the users may be assigned classified or tagged with one or more of the personas. Furthermore depending upon the persona s that are associated with various users the systems and processes described herein may provide one or more recommendations that are likely to be relevant to those users. In some embodiments the recommendations may relate to deals individuals or any other information that are likely to be of interest to the users.

In various embodiments location data that may indicate a current physical location of users or physical locations in which the users were previously located may be collected. The location data may be collected in any manner and may be collected over the course of days weeks and even years in order to determine location patterns associated with the users. That is the places in which users visit including the time of day day of the week frequency or duration associated with those visits may be collected in order to determine the places that those users typically visit and when those places are typically visited. As a result patterns that indicate when and where the users travel may be established.

In additional embodiments various personas may be created that each correspond to different types of location or behavior patterns that may be exhibited by users. More particularly each of the personas may correspond to types of activities that may be performed by a group of users or locations that may be visited by that group of users. For example various personas may relate to stay at home parents persons that commute a certain distance to work persons that travel for various reasons or persons that like a certain type of cuisine. Once these personas have been established the location patterns determined for various users may be mapped to the personas. As a result each persona may include a subset of particular users and each user may be assigned to associated with or tagged with one or more of the personas. In some embodiments the systems and processes described herein may determine which users exhibit location patterns that match the behavior associated with the different personas.

In other embodiments the personas may be utilized to provide various types of recommendations to users. For example since location patterns may be established based on the location data associated with the users and the users may then be tagged with one or more of the personas the systems and processes described herein may then provide targeted recommendations to different users. As a result each user may receive recommendations that are relevant and that are likely to be of interest to each user. In various embodiments the recommendations may include deals that promote products services events etc. as described below in additional detail. Moreover for a particular user the recommendations may identify persons that are likely to share common interests with that user. Therefore since the recommendations may introduce users to other users the recommendations may allow users to expand their respective personal networks. Furthermore the recommendations may provide any other information that is likely to be of interest to a particular user. For example such information may include current events identification of merchants articles etc.

The discussion begins with a section entitled Example Environment describing a system for providing recommendations based on location data and personas associated with users. Next the discussion includes a section entitled Location Data Based Recommendations that describes a process for using location data and personas to provide recommendations to users. The discussion then moves on to a Recommendations by the Content Server section that describes different types of recommendations that may be provided by the content server. The discussion then includes a section entitled Example Processes that illustrates and describes example processes for providing recommendations to users based one or more personas. Lastly the discussion includes a brief Conclusion .

This brief introduction including section titles and corresponding summaries is provided for the reader s convenience and is not intended to limit the scope of the claims nor the proceeding sections. Furthermore the techniques described above and below may be implemented in a number of ways and in a number of contexts. Several example implementations and contexts are provided with reference to the following figures as described below in more detail. However the following implementations and contexts are but a few of many.

In various embodiments the content server may be a service provider a service a deal sourcer or any other server or entity that may monitor current or past physical locations e.g. location data of users . More particularly the content server may identify specific physical locations that are being visited by a user such as by monitoring the physical location of a device e.g. user device that is in close proximity to the user . For instance the content server may determine the location of a mobile telephone a PDA a tablet device etc. that is being carried by the user . As a result since the specific physical location of the user may be known the content server may determine which establishments events or merchants e.g. restaurants stores etc. are being visited by the user and the duration of time in which the user is at that particular physical location. That is the content server may identify which establishments or merchants correspond with those physical locations. The content server may also identify patterns associated with each user with respect to the locations that are most frequently visited. Furthermore the content server may monitor collect and maintain this location data for any number of users .

Once the location data has been collected the systems and processes described herein may utilize the location data to determine location patters for the different users and to establish one or more user location personas hereinafter referred to as personas that may be associated with those users . More particularly each user may suggest or indicate various patterns based on where they travel which places they visit what things they are doing the duration spent doing these activities and the time of day or day of the week in which these activities occur. For instance the location data may indicate location patterns consistent with a stay at home parent a commuter who spends time at home and in the office a frequent business traveler a customer that eats at a particular restaurant more frequently than others etc. Based at least in part on the location data the content server may cluster the location points for all or a subset of users to define frequently visited areas. In some embodiments the clusters may be associated with the duration in which users stay at those areas the time of day in which those areas are visited and the frequency of visits at each area. If the clusters are relatively narrow those areas may be associated with a particular workplace merchant school home etc. As a result location patterns that indicate where users are spending their time may be determined.

Moreover the content server may establish one or more personas that may represent location or behavior patterns that may be exhibited by the users . In some embodiments the personas may relate to geographic regions in which users live work or visit. In other embodiments the personas may relate to particular merchants or categories of merchants that are visited by users . The personas may also represent varying lifestyles of users such as stay at home parents users that telecommute from home users that commute between home and work frequent travelers for either business or personal reasons college students and any other types of patterns or behaviors that may be exhibited by users . In some embodiments the personas may also be created based on the different location patterns that are derived from the location data.

In addition the content server may identify which users exhibit location patterns that match the one or more personas. For instance if the location data indicates that a particular user is a stay at home parent the content server may determine that that user matches a persona that corresponds with that behavior. In certain embodiments the content server may submit one or more queries to determine which customers e.g. users match the behaviors associated with the different personas. The queries may contain fields such as the number of clusters distances between clusters frequency of visits to clusters information about the location or cluster or any other type of information that can be used to determine whether certain user behaviors are consistent with different personas. Moreover after extracting sets of users that match or are consistent with the behavior or patterns associated with the personas those users may be assigned to or tagged or associated with one or more personas that describe that location behavior.

Once the users are tagged with one or multiple personas the content server may provide targeted recommendations to different users . That is each user may receive recommendations that are likely to be of interest to that particular user . For instance stay at home parents might receive recommendations that are relevant to parents whereas college students may receive recommendations that are relevant to that particular demographic e.g. ages 18 22 . In various embodiments the recommendations may include any type of information that is relevant to the persona s in which certain users are associated with. For example the recommendations may include deals that promote certain products or services. Alternatively the content server may recommend other users that are likely to share common interests with a particular user . That is for a user that is associated with a particular persona the content server may identify other users that are also within that persona. As a result users may be provided the opportunity to meet new people that are likely to have similar interests habits or lifestyles. The recommendations may also identify news current events social events or any other information that is believed to be relevant to the different personas.

In some embodiments the user may operate the user device to perform various functions associated with the user device which may include the one or more processor s the computer readable media the display and the location module . Furthermore the user may utilize the user device acquire items e.g. products services etc. to check into a particular place e.g. a merchant to begin or complete a transaction to associated with a merchant to access an application associated with the user device or to perform some other action with respect to a physical location. In other embodiments the location data may be obtained without the user having to utilize the user device with the exception of carrying the user device while the user is visiting different places or events e.g. work home restaurants stores social events etc. .

In some embodiments the user device may be any type of device that is capable of transmitting location data to the content server or that may otherwise allow the content server to obtain location data corresponding to a previous or current physical location of the user device . For instance the user device may include a personal computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone a PDA a tablet device an electronic book e Book reader device or any other device that may be used to indicate its previous or current physical location or that may allow the content server to determine this information. Moreover the user may utilize the user device to access the network s . For instance the user may utilize the user device to provide some indication that the user is currently at a particular place or event. For instance the user may check into a particular place e.g. merchant conduct a transaction with a merchant interact with an application associated with the user device or otherwise indicate a current geographic location in which the user device is located. Further the user device shown in is only one example of a user device and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any user device utilized to perform the processes and or procedures described herein.

The processor s of the user device may execute one or more modules and or processes to cause the user device to perform a variety of functions as set forth above and explained in further detail in the following disclosure. In some embodiments the processor s may include a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU both CPU and GPU or other processing units or components known in the art. For instance the processor s may allow the user device to perform any action that allows the content server to derive location data associated with the user device . Additionally each of the processor s may possess its own local memory which also may store program modules program data and or one or more operating systems.

In at least one configuration the computer readable media of the user device may include any components that may be used to transmit or otherwise indicate its previous or current physical location to the content server . Depending on the exact configuration and type of the user device the computer readable media may also include volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory miniature hard drive memory card or the like or some combination thereof.

In various embodiments the user device may also have input device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device etc. The user device may also include the display and other output device s such as speakers a printer etc. The user may utilize the foregoing features to interact with the user device the merchants and or the content server via the network s . More particularly the display of the user device may include any type of display known in the art that is configured to present e.g. display information to the user . For instance the display may be a screen or user interface that allows the user to interact with the merchants or the content server that allows the user to indicate a current or past physical location or that allows the content server to obtain location data associated with the user device .

Additionally the location module of the user device may include any mechanism that allows the user device to convey location data to the content server or that allows the content server to obtain location data relating to the user device . For the purposes of this discussion location data may refer to any type of data that enables the content server to determine a current or past physical location of the user device . In some embodiments the location module may allow users to perform some user actuation that indicates the current physical location of the user device . For instance the location module may enable users to check into a particular merchant to engage in a transaction or some other information exchange with the merchant to interact with an application associated with the user device or to perform any other action that indicates the current or past physical location of the user device . If a particular user device becomes known to a merchant that merchant may transmit that data to the content server or the content server may otherwise obtain the location data from the merchant .

Alternately or in addition the location module may allow the content server to obtain location data associated with the user device . For example the location data may be obtained by the content server passively without any action being performed by the user . In some embodiments the location data may be obtained via global positioning system GPS technology cell tower triangulation or any other manner that can be used to identify the physical location of the user device . That is even if the user is not performing any action with respect to the user device the content server may nonetheless obtain location data from the user device that indicates the current or past physical locations of the user device . In some embodiments the user device may include an application or an application programming interface API that somehow enables the content server to obtain the location data.

In various embodiments the one or more merchants may be any individual or entity that is associated with a physical location that may be visited or experienced by users . The merchants may also represent various locations or events that may be visited by users . For instance the merchants may relate to entertainment food shopping events etc. as described above. That is the merchants may include or represent sporting events social events concerts movies restaurants retail stores shops hotels bars nightclubs museums and or any other place or event that may be visited and experienced by users . The merchants may allow the users to acquire items e.g. products services etc. to check into the merchant if the users are currently visiting a particular merchant or to otherwise interact with the merchant . The merchant may also allow the content server to obtain location data associated with the user device of a particular user in order to derive the current or past physical location of the user .

That is the places or events that may be visited by users may be associated with one or more merchants . In other embodiments other physical locations visited by users may corresponds to a user s home workplace school homes of other users or any other place that may be frequented by a particular user . The location data may indicate the frequency in which the places or events are visited the duration in which the user remains at these places or events and the times or days of the week corresponding to when the user visits these places or events.

In some embodiments the network s may be any type of network known in the art such as the Internet. Moreover the user device devices associated with the merchants and the content server may communicatively couple to the network s in any manner such as by a wired or wireless connection. The network s may also facilitate communication between the user device the devices associated with the merchants and the content server and also may allow for the transfer of location data or communications therebetween. For instance the content server may obtain location data associated with the user devices from the user devices themselves or from one or more merchants . Further recommendations that are provided from the content server to the users may be transmitted through the network s .

In addition and as mentioned previously the content server may include the one or more processor s and the computer readable media which may include the location data module the persona module the persona assignment module and the recommendation module . The content server may also include additional components not listed above that may perform any function associated with the content server . In various embodiments the content server may be any type of server such as a network accessible server. The content server may also be any type of entity that obtains location data associated with various user devices in order to determine a physical location of the users and uses that location data to provide recommendations to the users . In other embodiments the processor s and the computer readable media of the content server may be the same as similar to or different from the processor s and the computer readable media respectively of the user device .

In various embodiments the location data module of the content server may obtain location data that indicates a previous or current physical location of the user devices associated with the users . That is the location data module may obtain location data that may represent what users are doing where the users have currently been and or where the users are currently located. The location data may be provided by the user via the user device or it may be obtained by the location data module in a passive manner. For instance the location data may be obtained from the user device via GPS technology cell tower triangulation or any other method of determining a physical location of the user device . Once obtained the location data module may maintain the location data for each user device such that the location data module may be aware of previous physical locations and current physical locations of each user device .

Furthermore the location data module may store known physical locations of the merchants and other places or events. For instance the location data module may maintain a list that identifies where certain places e.g. restaurants stores bars schools businesses homes workplaces etc. and events e.g. sporting events concerts social events etc. are physically located. Based at least in part on the actual time day of the week or duration in which each user was at each physical location the location data module may determine the particular place or event where each user has been. For example if the user was at a certain physical location at a particular time the location data module may determine that the user was visiting a particular restaurant or store for instance. Additionally if a user is typically at a first location during the day on weekdays and then is at a second location during the evenings nights and weekends the location data module may infer that the first place is the user s workplace and the second place is the user s home. As a result the location data module may identify with a relative high degree of confidence which places or events each of the users have visited.

Based at least in part on the location data associated with the different users the location data module may identify location patterns that indicate where the users are going and what those users are doing. That is the location data module may determine the places or locations that are most frequently visited by the users . In addition the patterns may indicate times of day days of the week the frequency and duration of stay associated with each location that the users visit. As a result the location data module may infer different types of information about each user . For example the location data module may determine that a first user is a stay at home parent that stays home a majority of the time that a second user is a individual that commutes between home and the workplace or that a third user frequently travels for either work or for personal reasons.

The persona module may create and or maintain multiple personas that are representative of location patterns or behaviors that may be exhibited by the users . These personas may be determined based on the location data or the location patterns derived from the location data. For instance if the persona module determines that a relatively large subset of users visits a particular location or engages in a certain type of behavior the persona module may establish a persona that is consistent with that behavior. The personas may also have varying degrees of specificity. For example one persona may relate to more general user location patterns behaviors such as stay at home parents or users that travel for business reasons while other personas may be more specific e.g. users that eat at a particular restaurant on a particular day of the week . Moreover the persona module may add remove or modify personas at any time for any reason. For instance certain personas may be modified over time based on changing user behaviors with respect to the places that those users visit.

In additional embodiments the persona assignment module may assign one or more personas to the different users or may assign the user to the different personas. That is based at least in part on the location patterns that correspond to each user the persona assignment module may tag or associate those users with one or more personas. In various embodiments the location patterns or behaviors that are associated with a particular user may be consistent with those associated with the one or more personas that are assigned to that user . As a result the users may be categorized based at least in part on the locations that those users visit the times and days in which each location is typically visited the duration of stay at each location and or the frequency in which the users visit those locations.

The recommendation module may provide one or more recommendations to the users . More particularly the recommendations that are provided to users may be based at least in part on the personas s that are associated with those users . For instance a certain group of users that have been tagged with a first persona may receive a first recommendation whereas a different group of users that are tagged with a second different persona may receive a second different recommendation. As a result since the personas may reflect location patterns associated with the users the recommendations that are transmitted are more likely to be of interest to those users . In various embodiments any type of information may be included in the recommendations and the recommendations may be provided to the users in any manner such as via a website e mail messages text messages telephone calls social networks a user device associated with the user etc.

In some embodiments the recommendations may include deals that promote products services events etc. that are believed to be of interest to the users that receive the recommendations. That is the deals that are provided to the users may relate or be relevant to the personas in which the users are associated with. For instance if one or more users are tagged with a persona that relates to stay at home parents the deals that are provided to those users may relate to products and or services that relate to children e.g. diapers books toys etc. . Alternatively for users that are associated with a persona relating to frequent travelers the deals may relate to hotels airline tickets etc. Accordingly the deals that are provided to the users may be targeted based at least in part on the personas in which they are associated with.

For the purposes of this discussion the content server may offer deals on behalf of itself the merchants and or a deal sourcer that may be acquired by one or more consumers e.g. user . In various embodiments a deal sourcer may include any entity that aggregates deals from any number of merchants and provides those deals to an entity such as the content server which may then offer those deals. Furthermore the deals may represent some form of value to be applied when items are acquired by individuals in association with the deals such as a discount a credit a rebate and the like. The deals may also represent an offer and or promotion to acquire one or more items associated with the deals. The items offered in association with the deals may include tangible items intangible items products goods services a bundle of items digital goods digital services events and the like. The items provided by merchants or the content server and then offered by the content server may be acquired by the users via one or more physical locations via one or more sites e.g. a site of the merchant an online retailer site websites etc. via any type of user device at the point of a transaction or interaction with a merchant or combinations thereof. The merchants and or content server may also provide items acquired by individuals to locations specified by the individuals such as via mobile services delivery etc. In addition the acquisition of items from merchants by individuals via the content server may be achieved through various means of providing value for the items such as purchasing items renting items leasing items borrowing items trading items bartering items etc.

In additional embodiments the recommendations may identify or reference other users that are believed to have similar interests to the users that receive the recommendations. For instance if it is determined that multiple users are each associated with a particular persona the recommendation module may identify those users to other users within that persona. As a result the recommendations may allow users to meet new people and possibly expand their respective personal networks. In various embodiments the content server may seek permission of the users before the identity of those users are revealed to other users .

The recommendations provided by the recommendation module may also relate to any other type of information that is relevant to the persona s that are associated with the users . For instance the recommendations may relate to current events published articles events products services etc. that are likely to be of interest to users or a subset of users that are associated with a particular persona. Consequently the recommendations that are provided by the recommendation module may be targeted to users based at least in part on the location patterns associated with the users and the personas that are associated with or assigned to the users .

In additional embodiments the portal may be communicatively coupled to the network s and may allow the merchants and the content server to interact with one another. For instance the merchants may access the portal in order to exchange correspondence with the content server or to submit deals that may eventually be provided to the users .

In various embodiments the location data module of the content server may obtain the location data . More particularly the location data module may collect the location data passively meaning that the location data may be obtained without the user having to check into a particular place or otherwise taking any action. Instead provided that the user is carrying a user device in which the content server is able to monitor its physical location the location data associated with that user device may be collected so long as the user device is powered on. In various embodiments the location data may be obtained via GPS technology or cell tower triangulation or the user device may have an application that allows for the location data to be collected by the content server . Moreover the user may need to opt in such as by agreeing to certain conditions before the content server is able to collect the location data associated with that user .

Furthermore the location data may be collected by the location data module in any manner. For instance and as stated above the location data associated with the user device may be collected using GPS technology cell tower triangulation or any other manner known in the art. In some embodiments the location data may be obtained provided that the user device is in the same physical location for a threshold amount of time which may be any predetermined amount of time. In addition the location data may be obtained in response to some user actuation such as the user checking into a merchant transmitting the location data to the content server or otherwise interacting with the user device .

In the above embodiments a user checking in or conducting a transaction with a particular merchant may cause the generation of location data that may be utilized by the location data module to determine that the user was visiting that particular merchant at a certain time. Moreover the content server may maintain a list of merchants places events etc. and their corresponding physical locations e.g. a merchant taxonomy and then map the location data to the list. As a result provided that the user was visiting a merchant the location data module may be able to identify where the user was actually located.

The users may also explicitly provide the location data . For example the users may provide the physical locations associated with their home workplace and other places that the users visit. Then if the location data indicates that a particular user is in relative close proximity to those places e.g. within a threshold distance the location data module may infer that the user is or was actually located at those locations e.g. home work etc. . In additional embodiments the location data may be derived from an address book associated with a user . For instance provided that the user authorizes the content server to access an address book the location data module may identify locations or places that are frequently visited by that user .

Moreover the location data may be collected via one or more applications or APIs associated with the user device a merchant or a third party. In some embodiments the location data may be provided to the content server in response to the user interacting with any type of application that is associated with the user device and that is able to determine a physical location of the user . For instance applications may be utilized for the purpose of conducting a transaction paying for a product or service or checking the price of a product or service. Moreover an application associated with a merchant may be able to identify various user devices when they are in relative close proximity or when the user interacts with a device associated with the merchant . As a result the physical location of the user device may be provided by or collected from these applications. The location data may also be directly provided by the merchants or other third parties. For example the location data associated with a user may be provided as a result of the user utilizing a credit card or providing information relating to a corresponding user device .

In further embodiments the location data module may collect the location data via one or more social networks such as websites associated with those social networks or from users that utilize those networks. For example if a particular user shared a current or past physical location with their contacts this information may form the basis of the location data . Alternatively the location data for a certain user may be inferred based at least in part on the physical locations of that user s friends or related users . For instance if the location data module determines that a significant number of users are or were at a particular place or event the location data module may infer that similar or related users e.g. friends contacts etc. may also be at that location.

In other embodiments based on the location data that is collected the location data module may determine which place merchant event etc. the user is visiting or previously has visited. In particular and as stated above the location data module may maintain a list or database of known merchants places events workplaces homes etc. and their corresponding physical locations that users may visit. This list may be updated over time to help ensure that the list is current. When the location data is collected the location data module may access this list to determine where the users visited or what the users were actually doing. The location data module may also associate a time of day or a day of the week e.g. timestamps etc. with the location data where the timestamp may indicate a date and or time that the user was at the physical location associated with the location data . The timestamps may be utilized to help identify the specific merchant place e.g. home work etc. event etc. that a user was visiting at a particular time. For instance in an urban area where multiple merchants are situated in close proximity to the same physical location e.g. a mall a multi floor shopping area etc. it may be difficult to determine which merchant a user was visiting. However if a timestamp associated with the location data indicated that the user was present at that physical location at 1 00 am it may be more likely that the user was at a nightclub as opposed to a retail store.

In other embodiments the duration of time spent in a particular physical location or the amount of time spent between physical locations may suggest where the user is actually visiting. For instance the location data module may infer that the user is shopping if the location data indicates that the user stays in one physical location for a short amount of time and then moves to a different physical location for a short amount of time. Similarly if the location data is consistent with a physical location associated with a restaurant and the user stays at that physical location for one to two hours the location data module may determine that the user is eating at that restaurant. Moreover the location data module may conclude that the user is likely at work if the location data suggests that the user is in the same physical location for eight hours and that the user typically frequents that physical location on weekdays. Alternatively the location data module may determine that the user is at home if the user is consistently at that location during the evenings the night or over the weekend.

The location data module may specify duration thresholds for determining whether a user was at a place or event. That is if the user was present at that location for a duration of time that exceeds the threshold the location data module may infer that the user was actually at that location. The duration thresholds may also vary based on the amount of time users typically spend at certain places. For instance the threshold amount of time for a workplace e.g. four hours may be greater than the threshold for a restaurant e.g. one hour .

In addition the duration of time in which a user spends at a location may be determined in different manners. In some embodiments multiple location points that each correspond to the user s location at different times may be used to determine the times in which the user was present at various locations. Moreover location data may be transmitted periodically and may be time stamped so that the location data module may continuously monitor the current location of the user . The user may also provide information that indicates where the user was or is currently located and the duration of time that the user spent at that location. Furthermore the location data module may monitor multiple user devices e.g. mobile phone laptop computer tablet device etc. associated with a user to create different location points that represent a location of the user when he she utilized the different user devices .

Moreover the location data module may identify what the user is actually doing or where the user is going based on historical data. For example if the location data associated with a particular user is in close proximity to a place or event that the user has previously visited the location data module may infer that the user is visiting that same place or event. In various embodiments the location data module may make this determination if the user is within a predetermined distance e.g. 50 feet 100 feet etc. from that place or event. Therefore the specific place or event that the user is visiting may be identified without the user needing to perform some action that identifies the place or event where the user is currently located.

Once the location data has been collected for the users location patterns associated with each user may be established. In various embodiments the location patterns may correspond to places that each user typically visits or is situated. For instance the location patterns for a particular user may indicate the places that the user most frequently visits e.g. home work merchants etc. the times and days of the week in which those places are typically visited the frequency of visits and the duration of those visits. As a result the location patterns may allow the content server to determine different behaviors of the users such as where the users are going and when on a daily weekly monthly or yearly basis.

As stated above the persona module may create and or maintain one or more personas that correspond to location patterns and behaviors that could be exhibited by users . In some embodiments the personas may be generated based at least in part on the location patterns provided by the location data module . For instance based on the location patterns the persona module may identify categories that represent behaviors or location patterns that are typically associated with different groups of users . In some embodiments the personas may be suggested by the users and may include personas that were not contemplated or that are different from the personas established by the persona module . Moreover the persona module may establish personas if the location patterns indicate that a threshold number of users would be included within those personas . These thresholds associated with the personas may vary so that the personas may be granular meaning that the some personas may encompass a large number of users while other personas may relate to a much smaller group of users .

Therefore the personas may each represent a category that may be assigned to the users based on their respective location patterns which may be deduced from the location data that is gathered over time for each user . The personas may relate to a location density of a user which may indicate the amount of time that the user spends in a given location. For instance a user s location is more dense at home and at work if that user spends a majority of their time in those two locations.

Although any number of personas may be established the following are examples of personas that may be created by the persona module . A single point persona may indicate that the user s time may be densely centered around a single location e.g. home and that the user infrequently travels far outside that single location. Moreover A single point plus errands persona may represent that most of the user s time is densely centered around a single location e.g. home but that the user has specific places that the user travels to regularly which may include a grocery store restaurants homes of family and friends etc. Furthermore a single point plus evening outings persona may indicate that most of the user s time is densely centered around one location but that the user sporadically travels to different locations during the evenings. Additionally a bi modal or tri modal and so on persona may represent that a majority of the user s time is densely centered around two or three locations respectively and possibly only those locations. For instance a bi modal persona may indicate that a user spends most of his her time at two different locations such as home and work. In some embodiments the bi modal and tri modal personas may be further classified based on the times in which the users are typically at those locations. For example a persona may be identified as bi modal point A mornings point B evenings to indicate that the user typically spends their time at one location in the mornings e.g. point A and at a different location in the evenings e.g. point B .

It is contemplated that any other personas may be created and the personas may possibly be more specific. For instance such personas may relate to the frequent business traveler who commutes on a weekly basis the stay at home parent a commuter who travels between home and work a person who eats lunch at the same location each day college students etc. As a result the persona module may create multiple different personas so that the users may be classified in a particular manner.

The persona module may also establish personas utilizing one or more algorithms such as a machine learning algorithm or other machine learning methods. More particularly the content server may identify certain location patterns associated with a particular user based on multiple location data points derived from a corresponding user device . However these location patterns may not match or be consistent with any preexisting or pre defined personas . As a result since the system may elect not to assign any pre defined personas to the user the algorithms may deduce one or more new personas that reflect those location patterns . The new personas may then be associated with that user and perhaps only with that user .

In various embodiments the personas established by the persona module may be utilized by the persona assignment module in order to assign one or more of the personas to each of the users or vice versa. More particularly the persona assignment module may associate or tag each of the users with one or more of the personas when the location patterns associated with the users match the location behaviors that correspond to those personas . That is when the places or events that a particular user visits correspond to the expected type of behavior relating to a specific persona that persona may be associated with that user . Therefore the users may be characterized or categorized based on the location patterns that have been derived for those users . As a result the personas may include a group of users that are determined to have similar location patterns which may indicate that those users have visited the same or similar locations and possibly have common or similar interests. In certain embodiments the correlations between the personas and the users may be referred to as persona data and may be utilized by the recommendation module .

In some embodiments the persona assignment module may determine whether a user is to be associated with one or more personas based at least in part on thresholds relating to the personas . That is in order for a user to be tagged with a particular persona a certain threshold or various conditions have to be first satisfied. These determinations may be made by one or more algorithms. Moreover the persona assignment module may associate the user with a persona if the location patterns relating to the user meet or exceed the threshold or conditions associated with that persona . If so the user may be tagged with that particular persona . For example provided that this persona refers to users that commute between home and work the conditions for qualifying for this persona may relate to the user spending a minimum amount of time at both home and work. In other words if the user spends at least a certain amount of time at work e.g. eight hours per day overlapping noon and a minimum amount of time at home e.g. eight hours per day overlapping midnight the persona assignment module may associate that user with that persona . That is the content server may monitor the location patterns of users and may add users to a persona when those users satisfy the threshold relating to that persona .

In various embodiments the personas may be refined or modified by the persona assignment module for any reason at any time. More particularly the conditions or thresholds that are utilized to determine whether users qualify for the personas may be refined or modified. As a result upon such changes being made users that are currently included in a particular persona may be removed while other users that previously did not meet the conditions for qualifying for that persona may now meet those conditions and thus be added to that persona . In other embodiments changes in the location patterns associated with the users may cause users to be added or removed from various personas . Therefore the users that are associated with a particular persona may vary over time. Moreover the number and type of personas that are assigned to a particular user may also vary.

The personas that are assigned to a certain user may have varying weights. That is although multiple different personas may be associated with that user the personas that appear to be more relevant to that user may be assigned a greater weight. The weights may be based on current location patterns which may indicate what the user is actually doing. The weights may also be based on modified or new location patterns that are determined from newly identified location data . For instance if the location data for that user suggests new patterns relating to what that user is doing or where that user is going the weights assigned to the personas that are associated with that user may be increased or decreased. Additionally if the behavior of the user changes abruptly or changes over a period of time certain personas may even be disassociated with the user while other personas may be newly associated with the user . Accordingly as the content server detects new location patterns associated with a user the personas associated with the user may change and the weights of the currently associated personas may also vary. As a result the content server may be better able to continue to provide relevant recommendations to users .

As stated above the users and personas that correspond to one another may be referred to as persona data which may then be utilized by the recommendation module . In various embodiments the recommendation module may provide one or more recommendations to the users via their respective user devices . The recommendations may include any type of information that may be of interest to the users that are to receive the recommendations . More particularly the recommendations may be directed to users based at least in part on the personas that the users are associated with. Therefore the recommendations may be targeted to users depending upon the location patterns associated with those users . The recommendations that are provided to a particular user may also depend upon the weights assigned to the personas that are associated with that user . For instance the user may receive additional recommendations that relate to a persona that has a higher assigned weight.

In some embodiments the recommendations that are provided to users may be based at least in part on user input which may enable the content server to provide recommendations that are consistent with user preferences. For instance users may explicitly state that they visit certain locations e.g. home a workplace various merchants etc. that they exhibit certain location patterns e.g. a commuter stay at home parent etc. or the users may identify other user preferences e.g. likes dislikes etc. . Users may also create new personas or indicate that they should or should not be associated with various personas . Furthermore users may explicitly state that they prefer different types or forms of recommendations or categories thereof and that they tend to dislike other recommendations . As a result based on information provided by users the content server may provide relevant recommendations that are specifically targeted to individual users .

In various embodiments the recommendations may include one or more deals that are likely to be of interest to users . In particular different deals or different categories of deals may be provided to different groups of users depending upon which personas are associated with those users . For example users that are determined to be stay at home parents may receive deals relating to children e.g. diapers babysitting services etc. whereas deals directed to commuters may relate to different products or services e.g. discounts on gas vehicles etc. . Moreover the deals may be provided to all users that are associated with a particular persona or a subset of those users . As a result the recommendation module may provide deals that are relevant to the recipients of those deals.

That is since the location patterns and the personas for a particular user may indicate when that user will likely be at a particular location the recommendation module may target deals based on that location. For instance if the location data for that user indicates that the user typically eats at restaurants on Friday nights the recommendation module may provide that user with a deal that includes a promotion for a restaurant on Friday night. Therefore by predicting when users will be at certain locations the deals may be specifically targeted to each user or to a group of users associated with a particular persona . As another example if is determined that a user travels to a particular location e.g. Seattle Wash. on a routine basis e.g. every two months the recommendation module may provide appropriate deals to that user when the user is next expected to travel. That is the recommendation module may provide deals relating to Seattle Wash. a certain time before that use is expected to travel.

Moreover since the location patterns or the personas associated with a particular user may identify where that user is most likely to be at a certain time the recommendation module may provide deals that are relevant to the user s predicted current location. That is the deals may be tailored to where the user is typically located throughout the day. For example if the user is most likely at work the deals provided to that user may relate to a nearby restaurant that the user may go to lunch.

In further embodiments the deals may be targeted to the density of where users spend most of their time. For example if users typically spend their time in a particular region the recommendation module may offer deals within that region or slightly outside that region. As a result the recommendation module may be recommending deals in which the users are most likely to travel to and thus acquire. In addition deals may be provided to users based on their current physical location. For instance if the location data suggests that a particular user is at a certain physical location the recommendation module may provide recommendations that relate to the region in which the user is located.

In addition to providing deals to users the personas may allow users to meet or network with other users that are likely to have similar interests. Since users may be interested in networking with people that are interested in the same or similar activities or that are visiting the same or similar places the users may be interested in corresponding with other users that are included within the same persona that those users are associated with. Therefore the recommendation module may allow users to build or expand their respective social personal networks based on the personas that are assigned to each user .

In particular provided that the users have agreed to certain conditions the recommendations may inform users that they are included in certain personas based on their respective activities or locations that they visit. Moreover the recommendations may identify other users that are also included in those same personas and that are likely to share common interests. Therefore the recommendation module may allow the users to meet people that have similar location patterns and to learn that there are groups of other users that they may be interested in knowing. For instance the recommendation module may inform the users of what these people are doing where they are going etc. Therefore as opposed to limiting interactions between users in an online setting the content server may enable users with similar or different interests to become acquainted in the real world.

The recommendations may also relate to any other type of information that is likely to be of interest to various users . For example the recommendations may include information relating to current events news articles events products services etc. that may be different depending upon the location patterns and persona s associated with the users . As a result the information that is provided to the users may be relevant to each user .

Furthermore new information such as additional location data new location patterns or newly created personas may cause or trigger downstream effects. For example for a particular user when additional location data becomes available the location patterns associated with that user may change which may alter which personas are associated with that user . Accordingly the type of recommendations provided to that user may also change over time. Similarly as additional personas are established certain personas may be newly associated with the user or currently associated personas may be disassociated from that user . Again since the recommendations may be based partly on the personas that are currently associated with the user the recommendations provided to that user may vary. When this new information becomes available the content server may update the location patterns the personas the assigned personas or the recommendations at one time utilizing a batch computation process. The content server may also update the foregoing incrementally as the new information becomes available and possibly in combination with the batch computation process.

In various embodiments based at least in part on a particular user s location patterns and or personas the content server may determine whether that user travels either for business or for personal reasons. More particularly the content server may analyze the corresponding location data to identify whether the user travels frequently. If so the content server may further determine the frequency of travel the locations in which the user visits whether the user visits the same location on multiple occasions the manner of travel e.g. airplane car train boat etc. and so on. Based on the user s travel history a travel persona may be established or assigned to that user . As stated above the travel history may be determined from the location data which may be derived from a user device e.g. mobile phone PDA tablet device e Book reader device etc. associated with the user . In some embodiments the user device may be of a type that is frequently brought with the user while the user is traveling.

Based at least in part on the user s travel persona the recommendation module may provide any type of deals or recommendations that are relevant to the user s travel history. For instance the user may receive deals or other types of information that relate to traveling between destinations e.g. flights bus travel etc. traveling within a destination e.g. subway passes taxis limousines etc. products services or promotions at the destination e.g. local restaurants local museums tours tickets etc. hotels luxury items e.g. social events free room service etc. activities e.g. shopping hiking etc. and other items that may be relevant to that particular destination such as clothing luggage or other travel related accessories or items.

By knowing the user s travel persona the content server may predict when the user may be travelling and to where. As a result the content server may provide appropriate deals to the user prior to the user actually departing for their intended destination. For instance if the user s travel history indicates that the user travels to a certain location at the end of every month deals that relate to that location may be provided to the user before the user actually goes to that location. Therefore the user may be provided the opportunity to acquire discounted items or items that have limited availability that are associated with the destination that the user will be visiting. In other embodiments relevant deals may also be provided to the user while the user is at that destination.

Furthermore in various embodiments the travel related deals may be the primary deal provided to the user if the content server determines that the user is at another location aside from their normal location e.g. home work etc. or if the content server has identified a repeated pattern of travel that suggests that the user will be traveling in the near future. In contrast the travel related deals may be a secondary deal if the historical travel patterns associated with that user indicate that the user is likely to be traveling to that destination sometime in the future.

The systems and process described above with respect to may also apply to other entities such as merchants delivery services etc. Therefore the location data collected by the content server may indicate where the merchants typically spend their time. As a result the merchants may select certain groups of customers that are to receive deals relating to those merchants . In various embodiments certain merchants may prefer that local users acquire their products or services or those merchants may prefer that users that are more likely to be repeat customers are to receive their deals. As a result the merchants may cause the content server to provide their deals to a limited number of consumers such as users that are include in specific personas .

As shown in the content server may include information about a first user or any number of users and the recommendation module . In various embodiments the content server may obtain location data associated with the first user which may be represented as locations . Each of locations may represent a particular physical location that was visited by the first user e.g. home work a merchant events etc. and each of the locations may be associated with a time of day a day of the week a duration of the visit or frequency of visits. Therefore based at least in part on the location data e.g. locations the content server may identify one or more location patterns relating to the first user .

Based at least in part on the particular locations visited by the first user and the times in which the first user visited those locations the content server may assign one or more personas to the first user . For instance the first user may be associated or tagged with any number of personas such as persona and persona as illustrated in . In various embodiments the personas assigned to the first user e.g. personas and may be representative of location patterns that have been exhibited by the first user . For instance one of the personas and may represent a commuter if the content server determines that the first user frequently travels between home and work. In other embodiments a different one of the personas and may represent a frequent traveler if the location data associated with the first user indicates that the first user frequently travels to the same or different destinations. Accordingly the particular persona s that are associated with the first user e.g. personas and may characterize or categorize the first user based on when and where the first user spends his her time.

Once the content server associates one or more personas e.g. personas persona etc. with the first user the recommendation module may provide one or more targeted recommendations to the first user . More particularly based at least in part on the personas in which the first user is associated with e.g. commuter stay at home parent etc. the recommendation module may provide recommendations that are likely to be of interest to the first user . Moreover the recommendation module may include a deals module a people module and an information module . In various embodiments the deals module may provide one or more deals to the first user the people module may identify one or more people to the first user and the information module may recommend various types of information to the first user . As a result the first user may receive varying types of recommendations that are likely to be of particular interest to the first user .

In some embodiments depending on the type of personas associated with the first user the deals module may recommend one or more deals that are likely to be of interest to the first user . For example if persona or persona relate to stay at home parents the deals module may recommend deals that relate to products or services related to children e.g. diapers toys etc. . Further provided that persona or persona relate to frequent travelers the deals module may provide deals that relate to airfares hotels or activities associated with the destination that is to be visited. Accordingly the deals that are provided to the first user may be targeted such that they are consistent with interests or preferences of the first user .

In addition the people module may identify one or more people that are likely to share common interests with the first user . In various embodiments these people may be included in the same personas in which the first user is included which may mean that the first user and the people visit the same or similar locations or do the same or similar things. As a result the content server may infer that the people are likely to have interests similar to the first user . Provided that the people have agreed that the content server may reveal their respective identities the people module may identify these people to the first user . The first user may then contact correspond with meet or include these people in their own personal network. Therefore the people module may allow the first user to meet new people that are likely to share similar interests.

In other embodiments the information module may provide any type of information to the first user that is determined to be of particular interest to the first user . That is based at least in part on persona or persona in which the first user has been tagged with the information module may identify information that may be relevant to the first user . For instance the information may include current events news articles products services events or any other type of information . Therefore each user e.g. the first user may receive recommendations that are particularly tailored to specific user interests locations visited by each user and location patterns that have been exhibited by each user . As a result the content server may provide recommendations that are customized to each user or to particular groups of users .

Block illustrates obtaining location data associated with one or more users. More particularly the physical locations of one or more users e.g. users may be obtained via user devices e.g. user devices associated with those users. The location data may be obtained in any manner such as for example via the user or one or more applications associated with the user device. Moreover the location data e.g. location data may indicate a time of day or day of the week in which the user visited the different locations duration of the visits or the frequency of the visits. As a result a content server e.g. content server may identify past and current locations of different users.

Block illustrates identifying places or events associated with the location data. In various embodiments although location data may be obtained the actual places or events that are visited by the users may be unknown. Therefore the content server may identify places or events e.g. home work merchants social events travel destinations etc. that correspond to those physical locations. These places or events may be inferred based on historical data data provided by the users lists of known merchants and their corresponding physical locations and the users proximity to those locations. As a result the content server may be able to identify the actual places that the users visited.

Block illustrates determining location patterns based on the location data. In particular based at least in part on the places and events that each user visits including the times duration and frequency associated with those visits the content server may determine location patterns e.g. location patterns for each of the users. The location patterns may indicate the behavior of users with respect to when and where the users typically spend their time. For example the location patterns may correspond to a stay at home parent a user that frequently travels to one or more destinations or a user that commutes between home and work.

Block illustrates creating one or more personas. Furthermore the content server may create or maintain personas that represent various types of location behaviors or patterns that may be exhibited by users. Therefore each of the personas may be a category that may define when and where certain users typically spend their time. The personas may vary in scope size and the number of users that are expected to be included in such personas.

Block illustrates associating the one or more personas with the one or more users. In some embodiments the content server may assign personas to users that match the location patterns exhibited by those users. For example if the location patterns of a particular user indicate that the user is a stay at home parent the content server may associate or tag the user with a stay at home parent persona. As a result the one or more personas that are associated with users may represent categories of users that exhibit the same or similar types of behavior with respect to the places users visit and the things users do. Moreover since the location patterns of users within the same persona may likely be similar the users included within the same persona are likely to share common interests.

Block illustrates providing recommendations to the one or more users based on the associated personas. In various embodiments different recommendations may be targeted to different users based at least in part on the personas that are associated with those users. Accordingly the recommendations may relate to information that is likely to be of particular interest to users. In certain embodiments the recommendations may include any type of information including deals products services news current events articles events etc. Moreover the recommendations may identify other users that are likely to have interests that are similar to the user that receives the recommendations. As a result the user may utilize these recommendations to meet new people and expand their own personal network.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the claims.

