---

title: Ultra low power apparatus and method to wake up a main processor
abstract: An apparatus and method for waking up a main processor (MP) in a low power or ultra-low power device preferably includes the MP, and a sub-processor (SP) that utilizes less power than the MP to monitor ambient conditions than the MP, and may be internalized in the MP. The MP and SP can remain in a sleep mode while an interrupt sensor monitors for changes in the ambient environment. A sensor is preferably an interrupt-type sensor, as opposed to polling-type sensors conventionally used to detect ambient changes. The MP and SP may remain in sleep mode, as a low-power or an ultra-low power interrupt sensor operates with the SP being in sleep mode, and awakens the SP via an interrupt indicating a detected change. The SP then wakes the MP after comparing data from the interrupt sensor with values in storage or with another sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063731&OS=09063731&RS=09063731
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09063731
owner_city: Yeongtong-gu, Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120827
---
The present invention relates to a low power wake up method for an electronic device having a sensor. More particularly the present invention relates to ways to reduce battery power utilized by portable devices and facilitate a return of the electronic device to operation from a sleep mode.

In order to save power which is of particular importance to battery powered devices conventionally a sleep mode has been utilized typically when the electronic device is an idle state for a predetermined amount of time.

Battery usage in portable electronic devices including but not limited to cell phones smart phones tablets personal digital assistants PDA s portable music players etc. are just a few of the many types of devices where battery usage is critical and there continues to be a need to provide more functionality and at the same time reduce power battery usage.

Conventional devices wherein after a period of time of non usage may dim the brightness of the display or the display goes blank to conserve energy.

For example with regard to computers sleep mode is defined as an energy saving standby condition of a computer which can be reactivated by external stimulus such as touching the keyboard. For example when a notebook computer goes into sleep mode the display screen and disk drive are normally shut down. Once awakened i.e. sent a specific signal the computer returns to its former operating status.

Moreover in the case of portable electronic devices sleep mode operates for example in devices that are in no way limited to smartphones tablets music players Personal Digital Assistant PDAs just to name a few possibilities.

In fact many smartphones now default to a sleep mode when not used unless actively performing certain tasks. When there are no active user interactions such as screen touches every component including the central processor can stays off unless an app instructs the operating system to keep the device fully powered on.

Moreover a number of background operations need to be performed while the phone is idle. In one such example a mailer may need to automatically update email by checking with a remote server. To prevent the phone from going to sleep during such operations smartphone manufacturers often make application programming interfaces or APIs available to app developers. The developers insert the APIs into apps to instruct the phone to stay awake long enough to perform necessary operations.

In a typical smartphone an Application Processor AP is asleep when the device is asleep. In order to wake up the device conventional systems require the user to press a power button or an unlock button.

Sleep mode saves battery power particularly when compared with leaving a device in fully operation state while idle and advantageously permits the user to avoid having to reset programming codes or wait for an electronic device to reboot. In wireless electronic devices such as portable mobile terminals tablets etc. which often seek out networks and have to provide passwords to obtain access upon being rebooted or reset the use of sleep mode is preferable to a rather cumbersome and slow process or rebooting.

However to return to an operational mode from a sleep mode wake mode requires an action to be undertaken by the user. For example a power button or an unlock icon must be pressed which is slow and sometimes awkward especially when trying to quickly perform an action on the electronic device. Even in the case of a virtual keypad an unlock icon must be touched or spread in order to restore the electronic device to an operational mode meaning that the user is inconvenienced by contacting a button of the device or sliding their finger along a screen.

Some conventional attempts to solve some of the shortcomings include providing a luminance sensor or a camera. However in such cases the application processor AP cannot go into sleep mode and must always be in an operating mode to process sensed data from the sensor or camera. This type of monitoring requires a high amount of power consumption as it is impossible to control the sensor by the AP directly when the AP is asleep.

Recently the use of a lower power processor for processing only the sensing data has been configured into the devices. However the low power processor processes data from the sensor using a polling type and must be maintained in a wake up state using significant amounts of power.

With regard to conventional attempts to address the above discussed issues U.S. Pat. Appln. Pub. No. 20100313050 discloses that a sensor processor system selects a power profile to be applied to the application processor system based on the sensed data and instructs the power management controller to apply the selected power profile to the application processor system. There are two processors used for low power sensing that wakes up the AP when the sensed data meets the condition.

However a significant drawback to U.S. Pat. Appln. Pub. No. 2010 0313050 is that the sensor processor always operates to monitor ambient environment using a polling type sensor without a sleep mode. The sensor processor applies the power profile to the application processor system S W type .

In another conventional attempt to improve the art in U.S. Pat. Appln. Pub. No. 2009 0259865 the electronic device includes a circuit configured to operate when the main processor is in the sleep mode. The circuit comprises at least one low power processor and a sensor. However the low power processor in the conventional system always operates without being in sleep mode in order to be able to monitor ambient environment via a polling type sensor.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for a system and method that permits additional components to be in sleep mode and yet provides ambient monitoring of the device and can permit a switch back to an operating mode from sleep mode quickly without pressing buttons or touching the display screen.

The summary of the invention is not to be used as a basis to interpret a scope of the appended claims as the claimed invention is far broader than the description in this summary.

An apparatus and method for waking up a main processor in an ultra low power device preferably includes a main processor and a sub processor that utilizes less power than the main processor and may be internalized in the main processor. According to an exemplary aspect of the presently claimed invention at least one sensor is preferably an interrupt type sensor as opposed to for example a polling type sensor . One of the many advantages of the presently claimed invention is that both the main processor and the sub processor can remain in sleep mode as a low power or an ultra low power sensor can operate with the sub processor being in sleep mode and only awaken after receiving an interrupt signal from the interrupt sensor that a change has been detected.

In addition the presently claimed invention also permits a return from sleep mode to operating mode by a mere wave of the hand which is unknown heretofore. Also shaking the unit or moving a stylus pen arranged along an exterior of the device are all examples of the many ways the device can be awakened from sleep mode.

It is to be understood however that the drawings are designed solely for purposes of illustration and not as a definition of the limits of the invention for which reference should be made to the appended claims. Moreover the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale and unless otherwise indicated they are merely intended to conceptually illustrate the structures and at least one of a low power processor and an ultra low power sensor to monitor at least one of the signals commands inputs and changes in the environment. The circuit wakes up the main processor responsive to one of the low power processor and the ultra low power interrupt sensor.

The present invention has been described with respect to particular exemplary embodiments and with reference to certain drawings but the invention is not limited thereto but rather is set forth only by the appended claims. The drawings described are only schematic and are non limiting. In the drawings for illustrative purposes the size of some of the elements may be exaggerated and not drawn to a particular scale. Where the term comprising is used in the present description and claims it does not exclude other elements or steps. Where an indefinite or definite article is used when referring to a singular noun e.g. a an or the this includes a plural of that noun unless something otherwise is specifically stated. Hence the term comprising should not be interpreted as being restricted to the items listed thereafter it does not exclude other elements or steps and so the scope of the expression a device comprising items A and B should not be limited to devices consisting only of components A and B. This expression signifies that with respect to the present invention the only relevant components of the device are A and B.

Furthermore the terms first second third and the like if used in the description and in the claims are provided for distinguishing between similar elements and not necessarily for describing a sequential or chronological order. It is to be understood that the terms so used are interchangeable under appropriate circumstances unless clearly disclosed otherwise and that the exemplary embodiments of the invention described herein and may be operated in other sequences and or arrangements than are described or illustrated herein.

To aide in an understanding of the present invention an artisan should understand and appreciate that the terms main processor and sub processor are terminologies used for understanding of the invention but other terminologies can be interchangeably used in place of main processor and sub processor having the same meaning.

For example to aid the artisan the term main processor can be any one of an application processor AP first processor and processor as used herein all refer to the same processor that is shown in . A high power processor can be referred to as a main processor or an application processor. The main processor typically is considered high power relative to the low power sub processor or sensing processor.

In addition the term sub processor can be any one of a sensing processor MCU second processor processor Sensor Hub Processor MCU Micro Controller Unit I refer to the same processor that is shown in . An ultra low power processor can be referred to as any of the above.

An artisan understands and appreciates that the term ultra low power typically refers to a processor operating at power consumption values using less than approximately 1 mA and often in the A range. Ultra low power levels refers to power consumption at levels using less than approximately 1 mA.

In addition the artisan also understands and appreciates that the term low power typically refers to a processor or sub processor operating in the 1 10 mA range. The apparatus may comprise a wireless communication device such as a mobile communication terminal a cellphone smart phone tablet Personal Digital Assistant PDA notebook netbook etc. just to name a few possible non limiting examples of devices.

The sub processor operates at a low power or ultra low power and according to the present invention the sub processor can remain in a sleep mode along with the main processor because of the use of an interrupt sensor . As discussed herein above the conventional apparatus uses only a polling sensor that requires either the main processor or the sub processing to remain fully operational to be able to have the device change from sleep mode to operational mode.

The interrupt sensor operates at ultra low power levels and sends an interrupt signal to the sub processor when a predetermined condition is sensed which can be for example waiving one s hand in front of the display shaking the device or moving a piece of the device such as shifting a position of a stylus or part of the cover. According to the present invention the interrupt sensor is operable while the sub processor is in sleep mode. However the polling sensor requires the sub processor to be in awake mode or operating mode not in sleep mode .

At step the main processor and sub processor are in sleep mode. At steps and an interrupt sensor including but not limited to an infrared IR sensor detects gesture sensoring within a proximity distance of the electronic device typically a display or touchscreen. The proximity distance can be for example 10 15 cm but the invention does not require a specific distance so long as the sensor can recognize the wave of the user s hand.

At step the sub processor is awakened by the interrupt signal sent from the interrupt sensor . Alternatively at step an accelerometer may detect the device being shaken or waived and also cause the sub processor to be awakened.

At step the sub processor determines whether or not the sensed data from the interrupt sensor is valid by comparing the value with a table in storage.

In addition a polling sensor can be optionally included so that when the mobile device is placed in a case or bag the interrupt sensor does not unintentionally operate. Accordingly the sub processor wakes up due to the interrupt from the interrupt sensor and the main processor wakes up when 1 sensing data of the interrupt sensor is within valid range or 2 when sensing data of the polling sensor is within the valid range with 1 or 2 being determined by the sub processor at step .

After determining by the sub processor that the data is valid for example by being in a valid range or has reached a predetermined threshold the sub processor at step then wakes the main processor which in turn at step provides feedback to the user in the form of for example unlocking the screen prompting the user making the display operable showing a home screen etc. According to an exemplary aspect of the present invention the predetermined threshold could be a particular value which if the output is greater than or equal to is determined by the sub processor as satisfying the wake up condition s . In addition there can be a range of range of values received from the sensor that are predetermined as satisfying a wakeup condition that being provided only for purposes of illustration and not for limiting the appended claims such as for example a microvolt uv or microamp ua range. Any other such range e.g. ma that is within the capability of the sub processor to distinguish between values received from the sensor so as ascertain a valid range or predetermined threshold are within the spirit and scope of the claimed invention.

As shown in while the main processor is active an exchange occurs between main processor and a sub processor according to a HUB protocol. First a hub interrupt is sent by the main processor to the sub processor and wherein the main processor starts to send length information. In turn the sub processor sends an acknowledgement back to the main processor. At this point the hub sub processor sets the control right and AP sleep information.

With continued reference to it can be seen that the sub processor keeps varying states between active and sleep. When a situation arise where the main processor needs to be awakened an AP interrupt id from the sub processor to the main processor. Once the main processor is awakened the main processor remains in an active state and starts to send information to the sub processor. In turn the sub processor indicates to the main processor the data length to send. Next the main processor starts to read a message from sub processor which can comprise sensor data and sub processed data.

Referring now to it is shown that an exemplary frame can be 8 bytes with a command field commanded by the AP main processor to the Hub sub processor a sensor number field specifying a particular sensor s data type showing the content of the operand being transmitted a data size field providing the actual data that follows. Each of the aforementioned parts of the message frame can be 1 byte in length and the data and status can be 4 bytes each so as to total 8 bytes for example.

With reference to at step the main processor and sub processor are in sleep mode. At step the presence of a stylus pen is monitored to determine whether the stylus pen has been removed from a holder on the electronic device. At step when it is determined that the stylus pen is removed sub processor wakes up at . If at step the non input timer has expired the main processor and sub processor go back to sleep mode otherwise at step it is determined whether a signature is valid and if so then main processor wakes up and the display LCD is turned on and unlocked step .

As shown in the IR gesture sensor interrupt sensor consumes at 317.5 uA of current. The sub processor in this example consumes about 3.2 uA when awakened due to the IR gesture sensor sensing a change in the ambient condition. Within about 330 ms of waking up the sub processor may wake up the main processor to perform a function and upon doing so the sub processor goes back to sleep. The main processor consumes considerably more current than the sub processor. Also in the example of it is shown that the accelerometer can cause the main processor to wake up within 180 ms.

Touch screen permits display and entry of data. Storage device is in communication with the controller and comprises a non transitory machine readable medium.

Auxiliary input can be anything from a keyboard to a mouse and wireless communication device shown as a single box may be different hardware modules for transmitting in short range communication such as Near Field Communication Bluetooth WLAN 802.11 RF communications etc.

In the invention the ambient environment is monitored by an interrupt sensor so that the sub processor and the main processor application processor can remain together in sleep mode. Not only does the invention save power but provides the user with a convenience in that there is no requirement to push a button to activate convert the device from a sleep mode back to a normal operating mode.

The sensing of a swiping near the device is sufficient to awake the device from sleep mode or alternatively shaking or waving the device also restores the device to a normal operating state by waking it up.

The above described methods according to the present invention can be implemented in hardware firmware or as software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM an RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered in such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as flash an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein.

