---

title: Device, method, and program for analyzing a magnetic resonance image using phase difference distribution
abstract: An image analysis device for analyzing a magnetic resonance image obtained from a living body includes a phase difference distribution creating unit configured to create a phase difference distribution of a magnetic resonance image obtained from a predetermined area of the living body, a fitting unit configured to fit the phase difference distribution created by the phase difference distribution creating unit with a plurality of function groups, and a verifying unit configured to verify normality of the living body included in the predetermined area, based on the magnetic susceptibility of the tissue included in the predetermined area determined on the basis of the parameters of the plurality of function groups fit to the phase difference distribution by the fitting unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330457&OS=09330457&RS=09330457
owner: NATIONAL UNIVERSITY CORPORATION KUMAMOTO UNIVERSITY
number: 09330457
owner_city: Kumamoto
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120926
---
The present invention relates to an image analysis device an image analysis method and an image analysis program and more particularly to an image analysis device an image analysis method and an image analysis program for analyzing a magnetic resonance image obtained from a living body.

An Alzheimer s disease which is one of dementia is the current major problem and has been studied in the world without exception. One of main causes of the Alzheimer s disease is known as a protein called amyloid accumulated in the brain. However a diameter of the amyloid is about 0.1 mm or less and it is considered that the amyloid cannot directly be portrayed by means of a current image detecting device for health care services.

By the way most of medical imaging equipment such as an MRI is aimed at directly portraying a target tissue or lesions. However in the medical field there is a limitation of an imaging time and there is a limitation of the resolution in the image which can be imaged within the limited time. Under the limitation the target tissue or the lesions cannot be directly portrayed. Of course in high resolution image equipment the portraying is possible but the high resolution image equipment is beyond a range of the health care services and expensive.

Of course in the case of using a superhigh magnetic MRI for example MRI of 7 Tesla and the like direct portraying is possible but the superhigh magnetic MRI is beyond the range of the health care services provided under medical insurance. An image diagnosis method requiring expensive equipment which is beyond the range of the health care services provided under medical insurance cannot be said as the solution of a current urgent medical problem and a method of detecting a tissue or lesions which cannot be portrayed by means of medical imaging equipment such as an MRI realistically within a current range of health care services provided under medical insurance has been required.

For this reason for example the MR system disclosed in Patent Document 1 images a high resolution MR image with a magnetic field strength of 3 tesla or more by using a 3D inclined double echo pulse sequence and collects image data of the MR image for two different echo times so that a 3D phase image is collected.

In addition in order to measure a predetermined component and a linear component regarding nonuniformity of the magnetic field since a smoothing spherical harmonic function is subtracted from the measured value collected between the MRIs to obtain a local change of the magnetic field in the area of interest. Since ability to measure a magnetic field variation in the brain by the MRI is increased according to the square of B0 measurement of magnetism and iron of the brain is more sensitive according to the technique disclosed in the Patent Document 1.

However the technique disclosed in the aforementioned Patent Document 1 has an intention of increasing the entire sensitivity in the MRI and only directly portraying the MR image. Further it is unclear whether a tissue or lesions which cannot be portrayed by means of medical imaging equipment such as an MRI is detected within the current range of health care services provided under medical insurance. In addition the MRI which does not adopt the technique disclosed in the aforementioned Patent Document 1 cannot achieve the improved sensitivity.

One or more embodiments of the present invention provide an image analysis device an image analysis method and an image analysis program which can detect a tissue or lesions which cannot be portrayed by means of medical imaging equipment such as an MRI realistically within a current range of health care services.

One or more embodiments of one aspect of the present invention may provide an image analysis device for analyzing a magnetic resonance image obtained from a living body including a phase difference distribution creating unit configured to create a distribution of phase difference or phase Hereinafter phase difference and phase are uniformly referred to as phase difference of a magnetic resonance image obtained from a predetermined area of the living body a fitting unit configured to fit the phase difference distribution created by the phase difference distribution creating unit with a plurality of function groups and a verifying unit configured to verify normality of the living body included in the predetermined area on the basis of the magnetic susceptibility of the tissue included in the predetermined area determined on the basis of the parameters of the plurality of function groups fit to the phase difference distribution by the fitting unit.

Further the aforementioned image analysis device includes various forms to be embedded in other devices or implemented together with other methods and the like. Further the present invention may be implemented by an image analysis system including the image analysis device an image analysis method having a process corresponding to the configuration of the aforementioned device an image analysis program implementing a function corresponding to the configuration of the aforementioned device in a computer a recording medium readable by the computer recoding the image analysis program.

As described above according to one or more embodiments of the present invention a minute change in tissue may be detected by using an MRI phase difference image which is sensitive to a minute magnetic change of the tissue. In other words a phase change due to a partial volume effect of the tissue is determined as a change in phase difference distribution of a predetermined target area in one or more embodiments below referred to as an area of interest and as a result existence of the target tissue may be stably verified by using an MRI which has a short imaging time and low magnetic field intensity.

Instead of directly creating an image of pixel by pixel having high accuracy by an unrealistic method for a long imaging time it is considered that a detecting method using short time imaging or low magnetic field equipment is facilitated in the industry and the medical field. Further the method may be used without changing a device in the related art or introducing an additional device because of software processing.

In embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one with ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid obscuring the invention.

The coil system includes for example a static magnetic coil portion an inclined magnetic coil portion and a radio frequency RF coil portion . The coil portions have for example substantially cylindrical shapes and are disposed so that central axes not illustrated are the same as each other. A bed portion supporting the subject is disposed in a plane including the central axes.

The bed portion is disposed in a bore A internal space of the coil system . The subject on the bed portion is carried in or out the bore A by moving the bed portion by means of a carrying means not illustrated . Further in one or more embodiments as illustrated in a direction parallel with the central axis is represented as a Z axis and two directions which are perpendicular to the Z axis and perpendicular to each other are represented as an X axis and a Y axis.

The static magnetic coil portion generates a static magnetic field in the bore A. The static magnetic coil portion is configured by for example a superconductive coil a normal conductive coil or the like. A direction of the static magnetic field generated by the static magnetic coil portion is substantially parallel with the Z axial direction. Further in an example in which a body axial direction of the subject is parallel with the direction of the static magnetic field is described but the body axial direction may be perpendicular to the direction of the static magnetic field.

The inclined magnetic coil portion generates an inclined magnetic field gradient magnetic field for example in three axes which are vertical to each other that is slide axial phase axial and frequency axial directions. The inclined magnetic coil portion is configured by three kinds of coils for example a slide axial coil a phase axial coil and a frequency axial coil. In this case any of the X axis the Y axis and the Z axis may be a slide axis. For example when the Z axis is the slide axis the X axis may be the phase axis and the Y axis may be the frequency axis.

Further the MR signal may be collected even in a coordinate system for example polar coordinate system in addition to the above Cartesian coordinate system and when the MR signal is collected in the coordinate system a proper axis for example a radial direction and an angular direction is set in the coordinate system.

The RF coil portion generates an RF magnetic field exciting a spin of the subject in a static magnetic space and receives the MR signal generated according the spin excited by the RF magnetic field. Further a coil receiving the MR signal in the RF coil portion may be used together with a coil generating the RF magnetic field or may be installed separately from the coil generating the RF magnetic field. Further the RF coil portion may be configured by a single coli or for example a plurality of coils to multi channel as illustrated in . Further when the RF coil portion is configured by the multi channel the RF coil portion may obtain the MR signal for each channel.

The MR signal is obtained by for example a pulse sequence of a gradient echo GE and becomes a sampling signal for a frequency domain that is a Fourier space k space . The GE system includes for example a steady state in addition to the GE. Further the pulse sequence may be for example a balanced steady state free precession SSFP and a true fast imaging with steady state precession TrueFISP and may be a spin echo SE and the like which are not the GE.

The control system includes for example a static magnetic power supply an inclined magnetic power supply a transmitting unit a receiving unit and a sequence controller as illustrated in .

The static magnetic power supply supplies power to the static magnetic coil portion and drives the coil system . When the power is supplied to the static magnetic coil portion the static magnetic field is generated in the bore A. The inclined magnetic power supply supplies the power to the inclined magnetic coil portion according to a control signal input from the sequence controller . A desired inclined magnetic field gradient magnetic field is generated in the slide axial phase axial frequency axial directions by supplying the power to the inclined magnetic coil portion respectively.

The transmitting unit applies the RF signal to the RF coil portion according to the control signal input from the sequence controller .

The receiving unit receives the MR signal generated by driving the coil system . For example the MR signal received from the RF coil portion is detected to generate complex data raw data which is digitalized by performing necessary signal processing and analog to digital A D converting. Of course the receiving unit directly A D converts the detected MR signal to generate the raw data. The raw data generated by the receiving unit is output to for example the sequence controller .

The sequence controller drives the inclined magnetic power supply for driving the MRI device the transmitting unit and the receiving unit . For example the sequence controller drives the inclined magnetic power supply the transmitting unit and the receiving unit by applying the control signal to the inclined magnetic power supply the transmitting unit and the receiving unit .

The control signal is generated according to the pulse sequence defining a size an applying time and an applying timing and the like of a pulse current applied to the inclined magnetic power supply the transmitting unit and the receiving unit . Information on the pulse sequence is input to the sequence controller from the information processing device to be described below. Further the sequence controller outputs the raw data input from the receiving unit to the information processing device .

The control system further includes the information processing device as illustrated in . The information processing device includes for example an operation unit A an input unit B a display unit C and a memory unit D.

The input unit B is a device which inputs user s information to the inside of the information processing device as digital data and for example configured by a keyboard a mouse a scanner or the like.

The display unit C displays a result for example shape image processed by the operation unit A a dialog for inputting data such as an imaging condition or the like and for example is configured by a display device such as a liquid crystal display.

The memory unit D stores various programs controlling the MRI device and for example a program used for a determination process to be described below a phase difference enhancement imaging program and the like which are used to create the shape image to be described below or the like.

The operation unit A analyzes and executes commands of various programs and for example is configured by a central processing unit CPU . In the operation unit A the program stored in the memory unit D is loaded at the same time of starting the MRI device and as a result the operation unit A analyzes and executes the command of the program according to a user s instruction.

Further the operation unit A may be configured by hardware corresponding to functions of the various programs for example the program . Hereinafter various commands of the program are executed in the operation unit A to create the phase image.

Next creation of the phase difference image performed in the MRI device will be described. In order to obtain the phase difference image the intensity image and the phase image are required. The images may be obtained by using the pulse sequence of the GE but may use for example another pulse sequence included in the GE system or a pulse sequence other than the GE system.

The phase image obtained by the pulse sequence of the GE system is proportional to the product B TE of a change amount B of a local magnetic field local magnetic field as compared with an external magnetic field made by the tissue included in each pixel and an echo time TE required for imaging. Accordingly in order to extract large phase difference information from the phase image the TE is increased or a function enhancing the B so called an enhancement function is changed to be stronger.

In detail the imaging is performed by using a predetermined pulse sequence. The number of imaging may be once and may be several times for statistical processing. Further in the case where the RF coil portion is configured by the multi channel to obtain the MR signal for each channel an arithmetic mean of the MR signals obtained for each channel is calculated and the intensity image and the phase image are created by using the arithmetic mean of the MR signals. Further when the arithmetic mean is calculated sensitivity correction for each MR signal may be performed in advance.

First the operation unit A outputs a control signal requesting to obtain the raw data by using the predetermined pulse sequence to the sequence controller . Then the control signal according to the predetermined pulse sequence is output from the sequence controller to the inclined magnetic power supply the transmitting unit and the receiving unit .

When the control signal is input the inclined magnetic power supply and the transmitting unit output a predetermined current pulse to the coil system and the RF coil portion detects the MR signal. Here the detected MR signal is converted into the raw data R by the predetermined signal processing in the receiving unit .

The receiving unit inputs the raw data R to the sequence controller and the sequence controller transmits inputs the raw data R to the operation unit A. As such the operation unit A obtains the data the raw data R corresponding to the MR signal.

Next the operation unit A is disposed in a k space in which the raw data R input from the sequence controller is set in an internal memory not illustrated . Hereinafter the data disposed in the k space is referred to as a k spatial data S k .

The operation unit A performs inverse Fourier transform with respect to the k spatial data S k and reconfigures a complex image x . The complex image x is an image in which a real image exists in a real part and an imaginary image exists in an imaginary part as illustrated in the following Equation 1. Equation 1 1 

In one or more embodiments when the MR signal is obtained a long TE is used. Accordingly phase wrapping occurs in the phase image P x and the phase exceeds 2 to obtain a phase value obtained by subtracting 2 n n is an integer form a real phase. As a result the phase image P x becomes a stripe image and thus does not have an original phase value. In this case the operation unit A removes the phase wrapping and simultaneously performs a process for extracting the phase difference.

In detail the operation unit A first performs Fourier transform with respect to the complex image x and returns the complex image x to the k spatial data S k . In addition the operation unit A reads the k spatial data S k disposed in the k space. Next the operation unit A performs inverse Fourier transform for data L k S k obtained through a low pass filter LPF with respect to the k spatial data S k to obtain a complex image x . Further the L k is a function of the LPF.

Next the operation unit A creates a phase difference image PD x by using the complex images x and x . In detail the operation unit A performs a complex quotient operation that divides the complex image x by the complex image x to create the phase difference image PD x . Accordingly the phase wrapping of the phase portion is removed.

In this case the phase difference included in the phase difference image PD x has a width of 2 and in one or more embodiments the phase difference included in the phase difference image PD x is assumed as PD x 

However the sign of the phase difference included in the phase difference image PD x may be changed by changing definition of the LPF and definition of the complex quotient when extracting the phase difference image PD x without changing the size of the phase difference. Accordingly in order to correspond to this particularly the definition is set so that the sign is negative with respect to a venous blood. Further the is a positive proportion integer and for example corresponds to a gyromagnetic ratio of hydrogen.

Next an area interested by the user of the MRI device hereinafter referred to as an area of interest is set with respect to the phase difference image and a predetermined operation process is performed with respect to the phase difference image included in the corresponding area of interest. Normality or abnormality of the tissue included in the area of interest may be determined by the operation process.

Hereinafter referring to the process for determining the normality or abnormality of the tissue included in the area of interest will be described. The data processing illustrated in is performed by the control system under the control of the operation unit A. The operation unit A receives the instruction from the user to start an operation of the data processing illustrated in when the creation of the phase difference image is completed.

When the processing starts an interface for defining a cross section or a part of a space imaged in the MRI device is displayed on a screen of the display unit C S . The interface may display the intensity image the phase image or the like created on the basis of the MR signal and defines a predetermined area on the image by an area definition means such as a closed curve an edge and the like or a coordinate value.

Next an operator of the MRI device defines the cross section or the part of the space imaged in the MRI device as the area through the interface displayed on the display unit C S . Here the area defined by the operator is the area of interest. The operator defines an area supposing that an abnormal tissue may be included as the area of interest when the image displayed on the display unit C is observed. Further the area of interest may be a 2 dimensional space or a 3 dimensional space.

When the area of interest is set the operation unit A obtains the entire phase data of the MR signals obtained from the tissue included in the area of interest and compiles statistics on the phase data to create the phase difference distribution in which a horizontal axis is set as a phase value and a vertical axis is set as a data number S .

Next a function group using for fitting the phase difference distribution is selected S . Here the operator selects a proper function group according to a target tissue lesions a disease condition an imaging method or the like. Further in the case where an object is predetermined step S is skipped and a basic function group according to the target may be automatically applied. Further the basic function group is prepared according to a target tissue lesions a disease condition an imaging method or the like and a proper function group according to the object may be selected by selecting the object from a selection screen.

Next with respect to one phase difference distribution created in one area of interest fitting is simultaneously performed by a plurality of functions S . That is one phase difference distribution is close to a curve of overlaying the plurality of functions. In the plurality of functions various functions may be adopted and a Gauss distribution a Lorentz distribution a binomial distribution or the like are exemplified.

Of course the plurality of functions is not necessarily limited to the distribution functions and need not be orthogonal to each other. Further the plurality of functions may be configured by combining different kinds of functions. Further when the fitting is performed by an operation of a computer the plurality of functions is required to be finite.

Here at least one of a plurality of functions used in the fitting may use the Gauss distribution. A signal distribution obtained by any tissue is a random variable represented by a sum of a plurality of independent factors and secured to follow the Gauss distribution by a central limit theorem.

Each function used for the fitting has one to a plurality of parameters for changing a function shape when the fitting is performed by using the plurality of functions at least it is necessary to adjust parameters larger than or equal to the number of functions used for fitting.

Actually while the plurality of parameters is properly changed a parameter set closest to overlapping of the phase difference distribution and the plurality of functions is searched. In this case when the fitting function is the Gauss distribution the parameter is small as three and the parameters are easily adjusted. Further the approximate degree of the plurality of functions and the phase difference distribution may be evaluated by for example a least square method and the like.

In one or more embodiments to be described below as the plurality of functions a double Gauss distribution model having two Gauss distributions is adopted. Since the Gauss distribution has three parameters of a height a central position average and a standard deviation or variance 2 in the double Gauss distribution model the fitting is performed by adjusting six parameters.

The following Equation 2 represents a function used for fitting in the double Gauss distribution model. Equation 2 2 In the Equation 2 Acorresponds to a height of a first Gauss distribution Bcorresponds to a reciprocal number of variance of the first Gauss distribution and Ccorresponds to a central position of the first Gauss distribution. In addition Acorresponds to a height of a second Gauss distribution Bcorresponds to a reciprocal number of variance of the second Gauss distribution and Ccorresponds to a central position of the second Gauss distribution.

The parameter set obtained by fitting described above becomes the combination of values characterizing magnetic susceptibility of the tissue included in the area of interest. That is a parameter set in the case where the area of interest includes an abnormal tissue having different magnetic susceptibility from the normal tissue is different from the parameter set in the case where the area of interest includes only the normal tissue.

Then the parameter set obtained by fitting is displayed on the display unit C S or the degree of deviation normality or abnormality of the tissue from the normal tissue of the tissue included in the area of interest is calculated on the basis of the parameter set to be displayed on the display unit C S . When the display is performed the operator may obtain a reference for determining whether the tissue included in the area of interest is normal or abnormal and obtain a reference of the deviation degree from the normal tissue.

Herein a result of an experiment in which with respect to the phase difference distribution obtained from a brain parenchyma of a mouse fitting is performed in the double Gauss distribution model will be described. In the experiment in a mutant APP Amyloid precursor protein gene manipulated mouse with an amino acid substitution that causes an Alzheimer s disease in humans and a control mouse genetically controlled so that various properties are constant the phase difference distribution in the brain was examined.

In detail brains of the gene manipulated mouse and the control mouse are extracted and then imaged by using a 3D FLASH 3D Fast Low Angle Shot with a 7T MRI device to obtain the intensity image and the phase image at the same time. A main imaging condition is TR TE 50 12.8 ms Flip Angle 20 Matrix Size 194 128 82 0.08 mm isovoxel and adding 24 times.

In the experiment the intensity image and the phase image obtained from a cortex a hippocampus and a thalamus in the brain are used. Particularly many senile plaques as one of pathological changes of the Alzheimer s disease are accumulated in the cortex the hippocampus and the thalamus. Further it is known that iron is deposited in the senile plaques and it is considered that a change in magnetic susceptibility due to the iron may be determined as the phase signal. In detail the area of interest including a portion where the senile plaques exist is set and with respect to the phase difference distribution of the phase value of each magnetic resonance signal collected from the brain parenchyma the fitting is performed in the double Gauss distribution model.

Here when comparing contribution ratios heights of the Gauss distributions in a fitting curve in the first Gauss distribution has a height 7 to 8 times larger than the second Gauss distribution and in the first Gauss distribution has a height substantially the same as the second Gauss distribution. However in like the first Gauss distribution has a height 8 to 9 times larger than the second Gauss distribution. That is it can be seen that the contribution ratio height of each Gauss distribution may not be adopted as a determining reference of the existence of the abnormal tissue because each case varies even in the same lesion.

Next when comparing standard deviations widths of the Gauss distributions in both the first Gauss distribution and the second Gauss distribution represent sharp distributions and particularly the second Gauss distribution has a width for example half width smaller than the first Gauss distribution or any Gauss distribution has a width for example half width smaller than the phase difference distribution. Meanwhile in the second Gauss distribution has a width for example half width larger than the first Gauss distribution and further the second Gauss distribution has a width for example half width larger than the phase difference distribution. That is it can be seen that the standard deviation width of the Gauss distribution may be a determining reference of the existence of the abnormal tissue because a clear difference is observed in the normal tissue of the control mouse and the tissue including the senile plaque of the gene manipulated mouse.

First it is considered that the first Gauss distribution configuring the fitting curve illustrated in is caused by a noise component. It is expected that an error occurs in the phase difference due to a thermal electrical noise a digital rise noise generated by cutting or the like. It is known that the noises follow the Gauss distribution and it is considered that a relatively high Gauss distribution occurs. Accordingly in the case where the phase difference distribution is fit with the plurality of functions it is considered that when the Gauss distribution is adopted in at least one of the plurality of functions a good fitting result may be obtained.

Further it is considered that the second Gauss distribution illustrated in the fitting curve illustrated in is related to a tissue including any magnetic material. The phase difference distribution illustrated in is obtained from the area of interest set so that the senile plaque is included. The senile plaque is the tissue including iron having magnetism as described above and has a relatively large standard deviation when the phase difference distribution of the tissue including a magnetic material is fit with the Gauss distribution.

Further when comparing cuffs of the phase difference distributions in and the phase difference distribution illustrated in has a sharp increase relatively close to the Gauss distribution but the phase difference distribution illustrated in have a wide cuff as compared with the Gauss distribution at the same height and any broad phase difference distribution coexists. That is it is suggested that when the cuff of the phase difference distribution is wider than that of the Gauss distribution at the same height a tissue including any magnetic material is included in the area of interest.

Further it is considered that when the Gauss distribution of which a center is shifted to the side is fit the tissue including a magnetic material in which the phase is shifted to the side and it is considered that when the Gauss distribution of which a center is shifted to the side is fit the tissue including a magnetic material in which the phase is shifted to the side. As a result it may be considered that overlapping of a distribution of the magnetic susceptibility of the normal tissue and the distribution of the magnetic susceptibility of the abnormal tissue becomes a distribution of the phase image.

Further a difference in center between the phase difference distribution and the second Gauss distribution is large in as compared with . For the reason when the phase difference of the normal tissue is 0 the Gauss distribution having a center close to the phase difference of 0 is considered as the Gauss distribution represented by the normal tissue and the Gauss distribution having the center far away from the phase difference of 0 is considered as a tissue having high possibility that a large amount of tissue other than the normal tissue is included. That is it is considered that a distance between a center of the Gauss distribution corresponding to the normal tissue and a center of the Gauss distribution corresponding to the abnormal tissue becomes a reference indicating normality or abnormality of the tissue included in the area of interest.

Next a phase difference enhancement imaging method of enhancing a specific phase difference which is performed by using a fitting function obtained by using a double Gauss distribution model will be described. Further the phase difference enhancement imaging method is a method of expressing an image portion corresponding to phase information selected by enhancement by an enhancement function w on the intensity image M x by selecting a part of the obtained phase difference image PD x and selecting the part or all thereof. According to the phase difference enhancement imaging method an image created by the enhancement function w may be provided.

In the double Gauss distribution model as described above in the case where the abnormal tissue including the magnetic material is included in the area of interest the second Gauss distribution has a larger standard deviation and a wider base than the first Gauss distribution. Accordingly it is considered that the second Gauss distribution indicating the distribution of the abnormal tissue enhances the tissue having a phase larger than or equal to the first Gauss distribution indicating the distribution of the normal tissue to provide a shape image with improved visibility ease of the abnormal tissue.

The phase difference distribution is changed for example like models illustrated in by a change in the LPF size. That is a width of the phase difference distribution which is substantially symmetrical based on the phase difference of zero is reduced while the LPF size is increased. As a result the phase difference image mainly has a value of the zero phase difference and a value near the zero phase difference and thus a contrast of the tissue is hardly given as the phase difference image. Meanwhile with respect to a tissue having a minute structure in the case of using a large LPF the contrast is easy to be given as compared with a case of using a small LPF.

The phenomenon is easily understood when considering that the complex quotient used when the phase difference image is obtained corresponds to the subtraction on the index. That is with respect to exp entire phase including phase wrapping and phase of a low pass component low frequency component including phase wrapping in the case where the LPF size becomes the overall image size all the frequencies are included and as a result when the phase difference may be close to zero. Accordingly the width of the phase difference distribution is decreased.

However this is only an extreme trend and in a general tissue it is actually impossible to expect which distribution becomes in the case of using any filter. In order to respond to the change in the phase difference distribution in one or more embodiments the distribution flexibly responsible as the enhancement function to be described below is selected and as illustrated in the distribution having different frequency distributions with respect to the same phase difference have the same contrast.

For example the operation unit A selects a width of the phase difference and a central value thereof so that the contrast of the target tissue has a desired size. Further the selecting of the width of the phase difference and the central value thereof may be performed by not the operation unit A but the user of the MRI device . In this case the operation unit A selects the phase of the target tissue to which the change of the phase difference distribution by filtering is added.

Subsequently the operation unit A enhances the selected phase with the enhancement function w to obtain an enhancement image w PD x .

Here as the enhancement function w an exponential function is used. In one or more embodiments an example of the exponential function uses a function. The function is represented by the following two Equations. 1 . . . exp Abs . . . is beyond the above range 

All the parameters a b and have real values. The parameters a and b are to adjust the degree of the phase difference enhancement and determined by the filter size of the LPF. The parameters a and b are determined so as to maximize a contrast C or a contrast noise ratio CNR of the target tissue and the background thereof. The parameter is to reduce a noise on the phase difference image PD x and determined by a standard deviation of a tissue in which a phase average value on the phase difference image PD x is near 0 zero . The parameter may be required based on the data obtained from many experiments. However the tissue in which the phase average value is near 0 zero may not exist on all the phase difference images PD x imaged at one time. In this case the parameter is determined by for example the contrast C or the contrast noise ratio CNR.

Further the aforementioned contrast C is determined by representing a difference between a signal w PD x1 M x1 after enhancing the target tissue at a position x1 on the image and a signal w PD x2 M x2 of a background of the tissue enhanced at a position x2 on the image as an absolute value as illustrated in the following Equation.

Further the contrast C the contrast noise ratio CNR is represented by c as illustrated in the following Equation. Further is determined by a standard deviation on the enhancement image of the target tissue or a standard deviation on the enhancement image of the background of the target tissue.

However when the is determined the aforementioned standard deviation may not be adopted. In this case a standard deviation of an external signal of the subject or a standard deviation according to a difference method may be adopted. Only the noise portion of the phase difference may be removed by using the function defined by determined as described above to create the phase difference enhancement image having a high S N ratio. Abs 1 1 2 2 

Further Abs represents an absolute value of . The function is a function in which the phase difference image PD x is not enhanced in the range of Abs but enhanced in another range. Since the function may be approximated to any power function with any precision as compared with a case of using a polynomial expression as the enhancement function more flexible enhancement may be performed.

For example when the filter size of the LPF is changed according to a size of the imaging area the distribution of the phase difference is slightly changed according to the change in size. Meanwhile when the filter size of the LPF is changed while the size of the imaging area is constantly fixed the distribution of the phase difference is largely changed according to the change in size. As such in the case where imaging conditions and the like are different from each other the distributions of the phase difference are different from each other. Accordingly in the case of always using the same enhancement function regardless of the imaging condition and the like each contrast is changed and thus the enhancement of the target tissue may not be clearly performed. Meanwhile in one or more embodiments as described above the parameters a b and of the enhancement function have real values to be flexibly changed according to the imaging condition and the like. Accordingly even though the imaging condition is changed the contrast may be equally or equivalently maintained.

Next the operation unit A for example masks the intensity image M x to the enhancement image w PD x according to a predetermined mode rule to obtain a shape image I x . A detailed condition when masking the intensity image M x to the enhancement image w PD x may be set according to a target to be enhanced and basically may be set according to four kinds tissue enhancement vascular enhancement entire enhancement and structure enhancement of enhancement modes to be exemplified below.

For example as both the parameter a and the phase difference image PD x are positive or negative any one of the tissue enhancement and the vascular enhancement may be selected. The entire enhancement does not depend on the signs of the parameter and the phase difference image PD x but in the structure enhancement for example a value of a phase difference hereinafter simply referred to as a phase difference made by a structure in the cortex is obtained by an experiment in advance and a conditional expression is set according to a size relation between the phase difference and the phase difference image PD x .

In the enhancement mode A the operation unit A extracts a portion where the phase difference image PD x is 0 zero or more and enhances only the portion to create the shape image I x . In this case the portion where the phase difference image PD x is negative may not be enhanced. In the enhancement mode A the shape image I x becomes the tissue enhanced image.

In the enhancement mode B the operation unit A extracts a portion where the phase difference image PD x is 0 zero or less and enhances only the portion to create the shape image I x . In this case the portion where the phase difference image PD x is positive may not be enhanced. In the enhancement mode B the shape image I x becomes the blood vessel enhanced image.

In the enhancement mode C the operation unit A creates the shape image I x by enhancing the entire phase difference image PD x . In the enhancement mode C the shape image I x becomes the entirely enhanced image including the tissue the blood vessel and the like.

In the enhancement mode D the operation unit A enhances a portion filling PD x when the phase difference image PD x is 0 zero or less to create the shape image I x . In this case the portion filing PD x 

As such in one or more embodiments an anatomical location of the brain function against the tissue contrast expressed by each shape image I x may be more accurately specified by changing a masking method of the enhancement images w PDr x and w PDa x and the intensity image M x .

According to one or more embodiments described above when analyzing an MR image obtained from a living body the phase difference distribution of an MR signal obtained from an area of interest is created the phase difference distribution is simultaneously fit with a plurality of function groups and normality of the living body included in the area of interest is verified based on the magnetic susceptibility of the tissue included in the area of interest which is determined on the basis of the parameters of the plurality of function groups fit to the phase difference distribution. Accordingly a tissue or lesions which cannot be portrayed by means of medical imaging equipment such as an MRI may be realistically detected within the current range of health care services provided under medical insurance.

Further the technology is not limited to the aforementioned embodiments or modified example but includes components acquired by substituting the respective components disclosed in the aforementioned embodiments or modified example with each other or changing combinations of the respective components components acquired by substituting the respective components disclosed in known technology and the aforementioned embodiments or modified example with each other or changing combinations of the respective components and the like. In addition the technical scope of the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned embodiments and includes details disclosed in the appended claims and equivalents thereto.

It is considered that the technique may be used for various diagnoses using the MRI. Particularly the technique may be largely contributed when detecting a fine lesion or tissue such as amyloid . Even in the case where those diffusely present in the tissue are detected the method may be applied and for example a ratio of fat included in the liver to be necessarily examined in the medical examination and the like may be quantitatively measured.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

