---

title: Biased wedge suture anchor and method for soft tissue repair
abstract: A suture anchor device and method for attaching soft tissue to bone includes an anchor body and a suture locking wedge movably disposed within the anchor body. Tension applied to one side of a suture causes the suture locking wedge to translate and rotate into a position which compresses the suture, thereby locking the suture in the anchor. A resilient or spring biasing member within the anchor device urges the suture locking wedge to compress the suture, facilitating suture locking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09364210&OS=09364210&RS=09364210
owner: ArthroCare Corporation
number: 09364210
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120127
---
The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for repairing soft tissue regions. More particularly the present invention relates to an apparatus and method for adjustably affixing torn soft tissues to a region of bone.

It is an increasingly common problem for tendons and other soft connective tissues to tear or to detach from associated bone. One type of tear or detachment is a rotator cuff tear wherein the supraspinatus tendon separates from the humerus causing pain and loss of ability to elevate and rotate the arm. Complete separation of tissue from the bone can occur if the shoulder is subjected to gross trauma but typically the tear begins as a small lesion especially in older patients.

There are various surgical approaches for repair of the rotator cuff one known as the classic open and another as the mini open . The classic open approach requires a large incision and complete detachment of the deltoid muscle from the acromion to facilitate exposure. The cuff is debrided to ensure suture attachment to viable tissue and to create a reasonable edge approximation. In addition the humeral head is abraded or notched at the proposed soft tissue to bone reattachment point as healing is enhanced on a raw bone surface. A series of small diameter holes referred to as transosseous tunnels are punched through the bone laterally from the abraded or notched surface to a point on the outside surface of the greater tuberosity commonly a distance of 2 to 3 cm. Finally the cuff is sutured and secured to the bone by pulling the suture ends through the transosseous tunnels and tying them together using the bone between two successive tunnels as a bridge after which the deltoid muscle must be surgically reattached to the acromion.

The mini open technique differs from the classic approach by working through a smaller incision and splitting rather than detaching the deltoid. Additionally this procedure is typically performed in conjunction with arthroscopic acromial decompression. Once the deltoid is split it is refracted to expose the rotator cuff tear. As before the cuff is debrided the humeral head is abraded and the so called transosseous tunnels are punched through the bone or suture anchors are inserted. Following the suturing of the rotator cuff to the humeral head the split deltoid is surgically repaired.

Less invasive arthroscopic techniques continue to be developed in an effort to address the shortcomings of open surgical repair. Working through small trocar portals that minimize disruption of the deltoid muscle surgeons have been able to reattach the rotator cuff using various suture anchor and suture configurations. The rotator cuff is sutured intracorporeally and an anchor is driven into bone at a location appropriate for repair. Rather than thread the suture through transosseous tunnels which are difficult or impossible to create arthroscopically using current techniques the repair is completed by tying the cuff down against bone using the anchor and suture.

The skill level required to facilitate an entirely arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff is fairly high. Intracorporeal suturing is clumsy and time consuming and only the simplest stitch patterns can be utilized. Extracorporeal knot tying is somewhat less difficult but the tightness of the knots is difficult to judge and the tension cannot later be adjusted. Also because of the use of suture anchors to provide a suture fixation point in the bone the knots that secure the soft tissues to the anchor by necessity leave the knot bundle on top of the soft tissues. In the case of rotator cuff repair this means that the knot bundle is left in the shoulder capsule where it can be felt by the patient postoperatively when the patient exercises the shoulder joint. So knots tied arthroscopically are difficult to achieve impossible to adjust and are located in less than optimal areas of the shoulder. Suture tension is also impossible to measure and adjust once the knot has been fixed.

There are various suture anchor designs available for use by an orthopedic surgeon for attachment of soft tissues to bone. A commonality between the designs is that they create an attachment point in the bone for a suture that may then be passed through the soft tissues and tied thereby immobilizing the soft tissue.

A number of suture anchor designs include use of a locking plug which is forced into a cavity of the anchor body to secure the suture therein. Although there is some merit to this approach for eliminating the need for knots in the attachment of sutures to bone a problem with being able to properly set the tension in the sutures exists. The user is required to pull on the sutures until appropriate tension is achieved and then to set the plug portion into the suture anchor portion. This action increases the tension in the sutures and may garrote the soft tissues or increase the tension in the sutures beyond the tensile strength of the material breaking the sutures. In addition the minimal surface area provided by this anchor design for pinching or locking the sutures in place will abrade or damage the suture such that the suture s ability to resist load will be greatly compromised. And perhaps worse once the suture is fixed the suture cannot be adjusted or retensioned. This is a shortcoming of such designs because it is not uncommon for a physician to desire to reposition or adjust the tissue location and suture after the anchor has been set.

It is therefore desirable for a new suture anchor device and method for repairing the rotator cuff or fixing other soft tissues to bone wherein suture tension can be adjusted released and conveniently retensioned after it is deployed and locked. It is also desirable for a suture anchor that can operate in a low friction environment including use of low friction suture materials while being able to maintain compression of the suture. It is also desirable that there is no requirement for the surgeon to tie a knot to attach the suture to the suture anchor and wherein the procedure associated with the new approach is better for the patient saves time is uncomplicated to use and easily taught to practitioners having skill in the art.

An anchor device for repairing soft tissue with a suture. The anchor device comprises an anchor body wall defining a lumen through the anchor body. A suture locking wedge is movably disposed at least partially within the lumen. The suture locking wedge is in contact with the suture when the suture is threaded through the anchor device and looped around the suture locking wedge such that when a tension force is applied to the tissue limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged into a first position in which the suture is compressed between the suture locking wedge and a first contact location of the anchor body. When a second tension force is applied to the free limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged away from the first contact location such that the suture is not compressed. The anchor device also includes a wedge biasing member cooperatively engaged with the lumen of the anchor body and the suture locking wedge to urge the suture locking wedge to the first position.

In another embodiment the wedge biasing member comprises a resilient material. The resilient material may comprise a polymer. The wedge biasing member may comprise a spring.

In another embodiment the wedge biasing member comprises at least one arm extending to the suture locking wedge. The wedge biasing member may further include a base portion from which the arm extends and which cooperatively engages with the lumen to maintain the suture locking wedge at a first orientation relative to the anchor body. The arm may be curved arcuate serpentine shaped or U shaped. The arm may further comprise an opening for the suture to pass. In another embodiment the biasing member comprises a plurality of arms.

In another embodiment a guide member extends from the base and engages the lumen of the anchor body to restrict movement of the base of the biasing member to translational movement. The guide member may include a projection which is slidably received in a slot in the wall of the anchor body. The projection may be a pin shaped member.

In another embodiment the wedge biasing member flexes upon application of the tension force to the tissue limb or the free limb of the suture such that the suture locking wedge is movable in two degrees of freedom. The degrees of freedom or motion include translational movement and rotational movement.

In another embodiment the lumen of the anchor body comprises an opening such that at least a first portion of the suture protrudes outside of the anchor device when the suture is looped around the suture locking wedge and the suture locking wedge is in the first position.

In another embodiment the anchor body comprises a bone fixation structure for securing the anchor device in the bone wherein the bone fixation structure is selected from the group consisting of threads ridges barbs and wings.

In another embodiment the base of the wedge biasing member has a tubular section sized to translate within the lumen of the anchor body. The anchor device may include a pointed tip extending distally from the base of the wedge biasing member and the pointed tip is adapted to penetrate the bone.

In another embodiment an anchor device comprises an anchor body with a wall and the wall defining a lumen through the anchor body. A suture locking wedge is disposed at least partially within the anchor device and has a suture threading configuration and a suture locking configuration. The suture locking wedge is biased in a first orientation relative to the anchor body to compress the suture when the suture is looped around the suture locking wedge and the suture locking wedge is in the suture locking configuration. The suture locking wedge is cooperatively engaged with the anchor body such that when a tension force is applied to the tissue limb of the suture the wedge moves to the suture locking configuration. The suture is compressed between the suture locking wedge and a first contact location of the body. When a second tension force is applied to the free limb of the suture the suture locking wedge moves from the first contact location of the anchor body thereby releasing the suture from being compressed.

In another embodiment a method for securing soft tissue to bone comprises the following steps a securing a first end of a length of suture to the soft tissue to be attached to the bone b looping the length of suture through an anchor body and around a surface of a movable suture locking wedge c fixing the anchor body within the bone d positioning the soft tissue in proximity to the bone by applying tension to a second end of the length of suture such that the length of suture slides around the suture locking wedge so as to draw the first end of the length of suture toward the anchor body thereby drawing the soft tissue toward the anchor body and e loading the suture locking wedge in a first suture locking position thereby compressing the length of suture between a first contact location of the suture locking wedge and the anchor body. The step of loading the suture locking wedge is carried out by applying tension to the first end of the suture and a biasing force on the suture locking wedge urging the suture locking wedge into the first suture locking position and to maintain compression of the suture.

In another embodiment the method comprises releasing the second end of the suture after a tissue tension force arises on the first end of the suture from the tissue being approximated to the anchor body during step d .

In another embodiment the step of applying tension on the second end of the suture to move the suture locking wedge is performed subsequent to step e to release the suture from being compressed. Steps d and e may be repeated to reposition the soft tissue and to retension the suture. In another embodiment the biasing force arises from at least one resilient arm member. The resilient arm member may have a curved serpentine or arcuate shape.

Before the present invention is described in detail it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular variations set forth herein as various changes or modifications may be made to the invention described and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation material composition of matter process process act s or step s to the objective s spirit or scope of the present invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the scope of the claims made herein.

Methods recited herein may be carried out in any order of the recited events which is logically possible as well as the recited order of events. Furthermore where a range of values is provided it is understood that every intervening value between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. Also it is contemplated that any optional feature of the inventive variations described may be set forth and claimed independently or in combination with any one or more of the features described herein.

All existing subject matter mentioned herein e.g. publications patents patent applications and hardware is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety except insofar as the subject matter may conflict with that of the present invention in which case what is present herein shall prevail .

The following co pending patent applications which are being submitted contemporaneously with the present application are incorporated by reference in their entirety U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 631 entitled ROTATING LOCKING MEMBER SUTURE ANCHOR AND METHOD FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 642 entitled FREE FLOATING WEDGE SUTURE ANCHOR FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 673 entitled RESTRICTED WEDGE SUTURE ANCHOR AND METHOD FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 891 entitled METHOD FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR WITH FREE FLOATING SUTURE LOCKING MEMBER all of which are filed on the same date as the present application and all of which are commonly assigned to ArthroCare Corporation.

Reference to a singular item includes the possibility that there are plural of the same items present. More specifically as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an said and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as solely only and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements or use of a negative limitation. It is also to be appreciated that unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

The present invention provides an improved knotless suture anchor apparatus for anchoring a length of suture with respect to a bone structure. In an exemplary embodiment described herein the apparatus is used to anchor a length of suture to the humeral bone of the human shoulder. The length of suture is desirably looped through soft tissue such as a rotator cuff tendon to approximate and fix the soft tissue with respect to the bone structure. It should be understood however that the suture anchor apparatus may be utilized to secure a length of suture to anatomies other than in a bone structure. In this regard the preferred apparatus includes an anchor body within which the length of suture may be adjusted freely and then anchored or secured without knots. If the anchor body is to be implanted within a body tissue structure on the anchor s exterior may be provided for securing it therein. In a preferred embodiment the anchor body is inserted within a bone structure and a pair of wings are deployed from the exterior of the anchor body to hold it within the cavity.

As mentioned above the present invention is particularly well suited for repairing rotator cuff injuries by re attaching the rotator cuff tendon to the outside of the humeral head. Embodiments of the present invention permit minimally invasive surgeries on such injuries and greatly facilitate rapid and secure fixation of the rotator cuff tendon to the humeral head. However it should be understood that the same principles described herein apply to the repair of other injuries in which soft tissue is to be re attached to a bone structure or other tissue region.

Embodiments of the present invention permit the user to insert at least one anchor into bone independently of any other anchor lock an anchor in the bone allow the user to subsequently tension or loosen a length of suture or wire between the anchors or between the anchor and soft tissue to affix the soft tissue immobilize the suture or wire release and retension the suture and then disassociate the inserter assembly from the at least one anchor leaving the at least one anchor and the soft tissue repaired. Such an anchor inserter assembly may preferably eliminate the need to separately pass suture or wire eliminate the need to tie knots allow the procedure to be performed without the need to move an arthroscope from an articular side to a bursal side of the cuff and by virtue of the small diameter of the anchor implants reduce the size of the hole placed in any tissue if passing the implant through.

In the embodiment shown in the outer body component includes a wall which defines an axial lumen . The axial lumen is shown being substantially cylindrical. However the shape of the lumen or cavity may vary.

The axial lumen commences at a proximal aperture or opening and extends distally along the longitudinal axis of the anchor body . At least one suture which includes at least one bound leg may be threaded through the opening and extends distally through the lumen around the suture locking member or wedge and may subsequently be redirected proximally back through the lumen and out of opening to result in a free leg . The bound side limb or leg is considered bound because in practice this leg of the suture is bound to the soft or connective tissues to be attached to the target tissue such as bone by virtue of passing the sutures through the connective or soft tissues using conventional suturing techniques known in the art. The free side limb or leg is considered free because the surgeon or practitioner in practice has control over this leg of the suture with his or her hands or appropriate instrumentation.

As stated above the second component comprises a suture locking wedge . The suture locking wedge is movably disposed within the axial lumen . Suture locking wedge is operable to allow suture free leg to be pulled so that the suture may slide freely around suture locking wedge and into out of and through suture locking portion so as to pull soft tissue attached to the bound leg closer to suture anchor . As the tissue is pulled closer to the anchor a tension force arises on the tissue bound leg . Tension may also arise by the surgeon pulling on the tissue bound leg . Once a sufficient amount of tension is present on the bound leg the surgeon may adjust e.g. release reduce or halt the tension on the free limb so as to cause the suture locking wedge to move proximally in an axial direction and to thereby lock the suture against a portion of the inner lumen of the anchor body .

The shape of the suture locking wedge may vary greatly. The suture locking wedge need not have one side or edge thicker than another. Indeed the suture locking wedge may have but need not be limited to a cuboid like shape. Non limiting examples of cross sectional shapes of the suture locking wedge include square rectangle trapezoidal oval triangular and parallelogram. Suture locking wedge may preferably have a smooth surface and more specifically a smooth distal surface to allow for easy suture sliding around the suture locking wedge surface during use.

The suture locking wedge may be formed or comprise metal polymer or another material. In a preferred embodiment the wedge is formed from a rigid relatively low friction material so as to allow easy sliding of the suture. Additionally elastic or resilient materials or components may be incorporated into the suture locking wedge and or the anchor body. As the suture locking wedge is urged into a locked configuration the elastic component s tend to conform to one another which can increase the clamping force on the suture.

Additionally the suture locking wedge may have an elongate nest or groove not shown to provide some limitation to any lateral motion of the suture i.e. to keep the suture from slipping off the suture locking wedge . The suture itself may also preferably comprise a low friction material such as polyester suture to create an overall low friction environment. Examples of sutures include without limitation low friction UHMWPE suture and polyester suture.

The movement of the suture locking wedge may be restricted by a stop or fixed member positioned within lumen of the anchor body component . Fixed member is preferably disposed perpendicular to the anchor longitudinal axis and extends through at least a portion of the lumen . Fixed member acts as a stop to limit further proximal motion of the suture locking member when acted on by suture tension. Also although stop is shown as a pin it may have other shapes location or sizes operable to limit the motion of suture locking wedge .

With reference to a wedge biasing member is shown connected to the suture locking wedge . Wedge biasing member preferably comprises a biocompatible resilient material such as an elastic or resilient polymer or metal with spring like properties e.g. stainless steel . The biasing member holds or urges the suture locking member in an active position as will be described in more detail herein.

In the embodiment shown in the biasing member has at least one suture aperture between two arms. The rectangular shaped suture aperture receives the suture and guides the suture s through the anchor and over the smooth distal surface of the suture locking wedge . However the suture guide aperture need not be rectangular nor even an aperture. A groove or track may be formed or present in the second anchor component to maintain or guide the suture legs through the anchor and across the suture locking wedge.

The biasing member shape may vary. In the embodiment shown in the biasing member is curved forming an angle between 75 to 90 degrees with the longitudinal axis. However the biasing member may have other shapes including e.g. serpentine coiled arcuate and straight.

Additionally in the embodiment shown in biasing member is connected to a cylindrically shaped base portion . Base portion is adapted to move or slide within lumen of anchor body . At least one connecting member or pin extends in a direction perpendicular to the anchor longitudinal axis or lumen longitudinal axis. The pin is adapted to cooperate with a slot of the anchor body such that the base and consequently the suture locking member may be moved axially relative to the anchor component . Although this embodiment describes a connecting means or structure as a pin extending from the base the connecting structures may vary. The connector may be any projection extension dimple detent or indent which cooperates with a matching feature of the anchor body to provide axial movement. Indeed a projection or pin may extend from the anchor wall and be received in a cavity or detent present in the inner anchor body .

As mentioned above suture anchor body may include a window or slot . The slot is shown as an elongate window or opening. However the shape of the window may vary. The slot is preferably a shape that guides or provides a track to the inner anchor component and in particular to pin . Consequently the path of the suture locking wedge may be restricted.

The anchor body may comprise additional openings or apertures e.g. aperture for other purposes. Apertures may be provided for the purpose of providing space or room for suture routing. Suture routing in some instances requires the suture to be doubled up around a preloaded snare type device not shown and pulled through the anchor. More space at the locations along the suture path where the suture turns is desirable. To this end apertures may be positioned at locations along the suture path where the suture changes direction. The apertures are preferably sized to be at least as wide as the suture diameter. However the shape size and location of the apertures may vary.

With reference to for example aperture has an elongate shape and its width is equal to or greater to that of the locking member . When the anchor is loaded with a suture a portion of the suture may protrude or ride outside of the anchor body. Alternative embodiments may have additional apertures elsewhere on the anchor body such as for example on the opposite or inferior side of anchor not shown .

The distal end section of suture anchor may comprise a piercing tip to pierce soft tissue and be driven into and through tissue and bone. The piercing tip may facilitate the anchor to be pounded or driven into bone with a mallet or hammer like instrument. Piercing tip may be hollow or solid depending on strength or weight requirements and manufacturing technique. Suture anchor may be preferably fabricated from a metal such as 316L stainless steel although other materials such as titanium may be used. Alternative embodiments may include a blunted tip for inserting into a prepared bone passage or a threaded or tissue cutting tip.

After the anchor is positioned within the target tissue namely bone the anchor is fixed within the target tissue so as to remain in place. The suture anchor of the present invention may incorporate a number of features or structure to achieve a bone lock including for example assuming a larger profile using a variety of anchoring means such as expansion ribs molybolts rivets wings and other mechanisms. Alternate embodiments may include a threaded ridged or barbed portion on the outer surface to lock into the wall of the target tissue not shown . In one embodiment proximal end may include an anchoring element with two deformable wings that may be permanently or reversibly deformed or outwardly deployable to have a larger profile so as to anchor or fix the suture anchor within the target tissue.

With reference to the suture locking wedge is shown in an open or unlocked configuration. The suture locking wedge is spaced from contacting surfaces of the anchor body . Suture is shown entering lumen extending around a distal surface of suture locking wedge and returning proximally. In the unlocked or open configuration shown in the suture is free to slide. More specifically a tension T may be applied to suture free end as locking member remains in an open position as shown in such that the practitioner may slidingly draw suture around suture locking wedge . Consequently tissue connected to the tissue side or bound leg is positioned or approximated towards the anchor as desired.

The open or unlocked position shown in also shows suture locking wedge being maintained in an upright or near vertical position by biasing member . Maintaining the suture locking wedge in a near upright position facilitates routing the suture through the anchor because this position provides a larger space for the suture to turn during routing. Suture routing in some instances requires the suture to be doubled up around a preloaded snare type device not shown and pulled through the anchor. More space at the locations along the suture path where the suture turns is desirable.

The suture locking wedge is manipulated into the locked position by manipulation of the suture legs. More specifically as tension T grows on suture leg due to tissue approximation and the surgeon releases or modifies the tension on the free limb the suture locking wedge translates and rotates until it reaches a final locking position as shown in . A force Fin the translation direction is thus applied to the suture locking wedge urging it proximally and against the locking surfaces . Optionally a stop member may be provided to prohibit additional movement of the suture locking wedge and its associated structures.

In addition to the translation force F a second type of force or motion is applied to the suture locking wedge when tension on the tissue bound suture leg arises. Because the suture locking wedge is held by flexible bias arm the suture locking wedge has at least a second degree of freedom namely it may rotate in addition to translate . A rotation force Fon the suture locking wedge therefore arises. This force Furges the wedge in a counterclockwise direction and acts to further compress the suture against the suture contacting surfaces as the tissue bound suture leg is placed in tension. The locking or compression on the suture increases as the tension T is increased because of the translation and rotational forces placed on the suture locking wedge .

Spring biasing member supplies an additional force to hold the suture locking wedge against the inner surface of wall . The spring biasing member applies a force Fto the suture locking wedge which is based on the spring constant k and the amount the wedge is displaced. Consequently even as the suture tension T or T are interrupted biasing member maintains a force on the suture. This is advantageous in a number of situations such as for example when the suture anchor is locked post operatively. Repeated stress or tension of the bound leg may move or dislodge the suture locking wedge. The biasing member ensures the suture locking wedge maintains its position despite repetitive uses strains retensions etc. Further details of use of the suture in an application and procedure are described below.

Anchor may then be brought into contact against the underlying bone region using instrument handle . Now referencing with the piercing tip of anchor contacting the bone the proximal end of the instrument or handle may be tapped e.g. by using a mallet to drive the suture anchor into the bone at a depth of for example approximately 6 mm. If viewed through an arthroscope primary anchor may be driven into the underlying bone until an anchor depth indicator e.g. a colored marking or gradation is visible just above or at the bone as a visual indicator to the user that the appropriate depth for anchor insertion has been reached. This may indicate that the anchor wings have been inserted at the correct depth. Instrument may also have lateral aperture or opening located at the distal portion of the instrument but proximal to anchor wings operable to allow passage of suture from tissue into the anchor. Suture may then extend distally from aperture within anchor around a suture locking wedge not shown and return proximally within instrument not shown here and may connect with a portion of the instrument handle operable for managing the suture during insertion and tensioning.

With suture anchor suitably implanted the anchor wings may be deployed within the bone using instrument to lock the position of anchor and to prevent or inhibit anchor from being pulled out of bone as shown in . Anchor may then be released from instrument which may be achieved by a variety of mechanical means operable to have a weakness or failure point that fractures or disconnects upon application of a force or torque. Some methods for this release are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 585 730 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Also it is to be understood that a wide variety of structures may be included with the suture anchor to implant the anchor in bone including without limitation barbs ridges threads etc. Aspects of an instrument and method described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0069823 incorporated by reference herein may be used to insert and deploy anchor . Additionally the anchor may be implanted in other manners and without a sophisticated instrument as described above. For example the suture may be locked by applying tension forces to the suture by hand. The present invention may be carried out using an instrument for applying tensioning and or without use of such instruments.

To effect the rotator cuff repair the practitioner may first create an incision in the patient s shoulder into which may be inserted a trocar as shown in . The trocar permits access to the procedural site for visualization instruments as well as working instruments and permits the procedure to be completed arthroscopically. Anchor may then be connected with suture and then inserted according to methods described herein. Insertion to the cortical layer is important to ensure anchoring structure gains good purchase on the bone. shows anchoring structure deployed at which point the deployment instrument may be disconnected from the anchor as discussed earlier and removed from the site.

With reference to suture locking wedge is shown in an open position meaning that the suture free end may be freely tensioned or withdrawn proximally to draw tissue to the correct location for reattachment to the bone. As discussed supra the bound leg or legs of the suture have been connected with the tissue or tendon and may extend through a lateral aperture in the delivery instrument to gain access to the suture anchor about the suture locking wedge until such time as the tendon binding in the bound leg of the suture creates a tension in the suture . This will occur when the tendon has been drawn toward the anchor as shown in and is itself under appropriate tension for an anatomically proper repair and otherwise snugly situated with respect thereto. Non limiting examples of threshold distances between the tissue and the proximal end of the anchor range from 2 8 mm and more preferably 3 6 mm. The suture may be drawn by hand by instrument or a combination thereof.

Once the tension on the bound limb is present the practitioner may release or otherwise modify the tension on the free limb so as to allow the tension in the bound leg to move the suture locking wedge . In the embodiment shown in the suture locking wedge translates and rotates urging the suture locking wedge to a locked position as is shown in .

The suture locking mechanism of the present invention may be reversible. Retensioning may be possible to permit the continued adjustability of the bound end by applying tensile force to the free end of the suture. This is useful as a surgeon will often find that during the course of a procedure after the tendon soft tissue has been brought into what is believed to be a desired position relative to the bone to which it is being secured and the suture has been locked into place to retain the tendon in that orientation a further adjustment is necessary or desired to optimize the outcome.

For example after the free end has been pulled proximally sufficiently such that a tension is created in the bound end due to approximation of the tendon to the bone and the suture is locked by the suture locking wedge the bound end is anchored in a fixed position. This ensures that the tendon is not movable relative to the bone after completion of the procedure. However if the practitioner requires the suture locking wedge to be unlocked the practitioner may do so by applying sufficient tension on the free end possibly also in combination with releasing tension on the bound legs so as to permit adjustment of the size of the suture loop through the tendon which in turn permits adjustment or fine tuning of the position of the tendon with respect to the bone. The practitioner may make these adjustments by hand or using an instrument.

Once the tendon is adjusted to the desired location the suture may then be considered locked and the free end may be trimmed near the proximal end of the anchor portion and the incision is closed.

Repeated stress or use of the tendon after the surgery may move or dislodge the suture locking wedge. However the biasing member of the present invention serves to prevent dislodgement of the suture locking wedge by maintaining the wedge in an active position against the wall of the anchor body. This is one advantage of a spring bias member.

With reference to the suture locking wedge is held in a near vertical position. As described above holding the suture locking wedge in a substantially upright open position in combination with maintaining a large gap or space for the suture to be routed is desirable. Additionally in this embodiment apertures are provided in the anchor body wall . Aperture provides additional space for the suture to be routed around the suture locking wedge. Portions of the suture may reside outside or outboard of the anchor body. The suture is thus not confined to the lumen as it is routed around the suture locking wedge.

The position of the suture locking wedge is maintained by a serpentine shaped biasing member . The biasing member extends downward and curves back upwards to hold the suture locking wedge in position. As shown in biasing member comprises at least two arms in this embodiment. An aperture or opening is defined between the arms to guide or allow the suture to be routed around the suture locking wedge.

With reference to the suture anchor is shown in a locked configuration. The suture locking wedge is shown compressing the suture against a suture contacting surface of the body . Unlike the suture anchor described in connection with however the suture is shown solely being compressed along the longitudinal axis of the anchor . This on axis contacting surface compresses the suture between two parallel surfaces not requiring the suture to make a turn. This type of contacting surface may be more desirable for less flexible sutures or those suture varieties that are less kink resistant.

The translational motion of the suture locking wedge is limited by stop surface of anchor wall . In particular distal end section or tip which is connected to suture locking wedge via biasing member comprises a tip stop surface . When tip stop surface makes contact with wall stop surface translation motion in the proximal direction of the suture locking wedge is halted. However as described above the biasing member is preferably somewhat elastic or spring like such that some translation movement and rotational movement of the suture locking wedge is permitted in order to optimize compression and locking of the suture when the bound side of the suture is placed in tension.

Additionally the suture anchor shown in compresses the suture at a second location B along the suture length. Second or bottom edge of the suture locking wedge is shown compressing the suture against second contacting surface of the anchor wall . The contact surface is parallel to the longitudinal axis L . Consequently as tension is applied on suture leg during a procedure as described above the suture locking wedge moves in the longitudinal direction and also is permitted to rotate slightly counterclockwise until it compresses the suture at two locations A and B along the suture. Embodiments of the present invention may compress the suture at one or more locations or a plurality of locations to achieve the desirable suture lock. The contacting surfaces at the suture locations of compression may be on axis off axis or combination of on axis and off axis.

The suture anchor device may be temporarily attached to an insertion instrument shaft distal end having an opening to provide a passage for the length of suture to gain access to the suture anchor device as described in previous figures. The shaft distal end may also have a driver to deploy an anchoring element disposed at the proximal end of the anchoring device.

Step states to insert the suture anchor into a portion of bone deep enough so that the anchor device proximal end is in the cancellous bone region. A marker or indicator may be present on the shaft distal end to aid in proper anchor placement.

Step states to deploy the anchoring portion or anchoring element to secure the suture anchor device in surrounding bone. Step states to separate the driver from the suture anchor and withdraw the driver portion from the patient s body.

Step states to apply tension to the second end of the length of suture such that the length of suture slides around the suture locking wedge so as to draw the first end of the length of suture toward the suture anchor device thereby drawing the connective tissue closer to the anchor thereby securing the portion of connective tissue snugly to the portion of bone.

Step states to apply tension to the first end or tissue side of the length of suture so as to move suture locking wedge to reduce the gap such that the length of suture is now no longer free to slide. This tension to the first end may be passively applied as the tissue may resist any further motion as it abuts the bone. For example the surgeon may pause adjust or release tension on the free limb so as to allow the tension on the tissue bound limb to move the suture locking wedge into a locked position. Alternatively or in addition to this tension may be applied to the first end of the suture by the clinician using for example an instrument tool or by hands.

Step states to bias the suture locking wedge against the suture. This may be carried out with for example a biasing member or spring as described above to maintain a force on the suture in addition to the forces arising from tension on the bound leg of the suture. The biasing force supplements the forces generated by the tension on the bound suture leg.

Should the connective tissue need to be relocated tension may be increased to the second length of suture the free side sufficient enough to move the suture locking wedge so as to increase the gap and allow length of suture to slide around the suture locking wedge such that the soft tissue may be re positioned relative to the portion of bone. After the connective tissue has been relocated the tension may then be increased to the first end of the length of suture again so as to compress the suture again. The insertion instrument may then be removed from the area.

Step states to thread at least a first length of suture through a proximal end of the suture anchor and about the biased suture locking wedge such that a second length of suture exits the lumen proximal end.

Step states to deploy an anchoring portion of the suture anchor to secure the suture anchor in surrounding tissue.

Step states to apply a second tension to the second length of suture such that the length of suture slides freely around the suture locking wedge until the first tension reaches a sufficient magnitude at which point the suture locking wedge moves so as to fix the second length of suture in position. In some embodiments the suture locking wedge may slide and rotate or bend and rotate.

Step states to loop the length of suture through an anchor body and around a surface of a movable suture locking wedge.

Step states to position the soft tissue in proximity to the bone by applying tension to a second end of the length of suture such that the length of suture slides around the suture locking wedge so as to draw the first end of the length of suture toward the anchor body thereby drawing the soft tissue toward the anchor body.

Step states to load the suture locking wedge in a first suture locking position. Thereby compressing the length of suture between a first contact location of the suture locking wedge and the anchor body.

Loading may be performed using a resilient member or spring to place a load on the suture independent of the tension and forces arising from applying tension to the tissue bound side of the suture. The loading arising from the spring or biasing force serves to maintain the suture in a locked state throughout the anchor or implant s life and despite repeated tensional forces from use of the connective tissue. Natural movements of the rotator cuff cause repeated tension and strain on the implant. Such repeated uses can move or perhaps worse dislodge the suture locking wedge. Applying an independent biasing force limits the amount of movement of the suture locking wedge and maintains its intended locked configuration.

Repairing the capsule may be performed by stitching folds in the capsule to shrink its effective size namely plication . Tightening the capsule to the proper degree makes the shoulder more stable. Folds may be stitched in various manners. In one embodiment and with reference to a method comprises securing a first limb of a suture to a first anchor .

A second limb of the suture is threaded or looped through a second anchor . The anchors may have features similar to the anchors described herein. In the anchors shown in radially deflectable members fix the anchor to the tissue.

Next the first anchor and second anchor are placed in the tissue and connected with suture . shows the anchors separated by a region. Suture can be tightened incrementally by pulling on free suture limb or tail . The amount of tension applied to the suture decreases the size of the region tightening the capsule tissue . This affects the stability and range of motion in the joint. The method thus allows the surgeon to increase tensions until a suitable stabilization is achieved that does not affect range of motion.

Next the suture is looped or threaded through additional anchors and such that a free suture limb extends from the last threaded anchor. In the embodiment shown in anchor is the last anchor of the sequence of anchors and free suture limb is shown extending therefrom. Although five anchors are shown in the number may vary. In a preferred embodiment the number of anchors placed ranges from 2 10. Generally fewer anchors would preferably but not necessarily be deployed to close a smaller tear. More anchors e.g. 6 or more would preferably but not necessarily be deployed to close a larger tear.

Next anchors are placed one at a time in the tissue such that the suture length extending between any two anchor bodies spans the tear. For example anchor is next or adjacent in sequence to and the suture portion between the anchors and is shown spanning tear .

Next the physician pulls on the free suture limb . This step places tension on the suture spanning the tear closing the tear so that it may heal.

Other modifications and variations can be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the subject invention. For example other methods for anchor deployment will be apparent to the skilled artisan. Moreover the instruments and methods described herein may be utilized in other regions of the body e.g. knee hip etc. and for other tissue treatment procedures. Thus while the exemplary embodiments have been described in detail by way of example and for clarity of understanding a variety of changes adaptations and modifications will be obvious to those of skill in the art. Therefore the scope of the present invention is limited solely by the appended claims.

