---

title: Automatic publication of a user's application installation events
abstract: A system and a method for notifying users of the installation of applications using social networks. An application broadcaster automatically publishes a user's application installation events on one platform to the user's activity streams on external social platforms. This way, a message regarding the application appears in the user's activity streams within social networks, resulting in the application becoming popular among the user's friends. In one embodiment, the application broadcaster determines whether user activity associated with the installed application meets a criterion before broadcasting information about the application. The application broadcaster also suggests applications that the user might find interesting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148399&OS=09148399&RS=09148399
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09148399
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Application No. 61 499 612 entitled Automatic Publication of a User s Application Installation Events filed Jun. 21 2011 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

The specification relates to using social networks for spreading notifications about applications. In particular the specification relates to a system and a method for automatically publishing a user s application installation events on one platform to the user s activity streams on external social platforms.

With the advent of a variety of computing platforms such as smartphones and portable computers there has been an enormous growth in the number of applications being developed for them. However the discovery of these applications by users remains a major problem. Although the applications are categorized by type in online application stores users are still required to know the exact name of the application to be able to search for them. Due to this reason developers get discouraged as most applications go unnoticed in the plethora of existing ones.

Currently there are a few applications that increase the visibility of other applications by suggesting applications to a user that have been installed by the user s friends. But this does not solve the problem of locating the applications in the online application store because the user still needs to find and install the applications.

According to one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure a processing module receives a notification indicating an installation of an application and information about the application an activity analyzer coupled to the processing module determines whether the user activity associated with the application meets a criterion for broadcasting information about the application and a broadcasting module coupled to the processing module and the activity analyzer composes a message regarding the application responsive to determining that the user activity associated with the application meets the criterion for broadcast and broadcasts the message to one or more social networks associated with the user.

In general another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this disclosure may be embodied in methods that include receiving a notification indicating an installation of an application on a user device receiving information about the application determining whether the user activity associated with the application meets a criterion for broadcasting information about the application composing a message regarding the application responsive to determining that the user activity associated with the application meets the criterion for broadcast and broadcasting the message to one or more social networks associated with the user.

Other implementations of one or more of these aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer programs configured to perform the actions of the methods encoded on computer storage devices.

These and other implementations may each optionally include one or more of the following features. For instance the operations further include analyzing at least one of the user s activity with the application the user s rating for the application and a number of applications installed by the user transmitting the message to the user and receiving an approval from the user for broadcasting the message to the one or more social networks associated with the user modifying the message based on a setting associated with each of the one or more social networks associated with the user receiving a feedback from the one or more social networks the feedback including an interaction of a friend of the user with the message analyzing the feedback to determine an interest of the friend of the user and receiving from the one or more social networks information about applications installed by a friend of the user and suggesting the applications installed by the friend of the user to the user.

For instance the features include information about the application further including at least one of a summary of the application a reference to the application a photo a video a review and a rating notification further indicating an installation of an update to the application and the user s activity with the application further including at least one of a frequency of usage of the application and a time spent by the user with the application.

The present disclosure may be particularly advantageous in a number of respects. First the application broadcaster automatically publishes a message regarding a user s application installation events on one platform to the user s activity streams on external social platforms. As a result the application gets advertised and becomes popular amongst the user s friends. Second the application broadcaster analyzes the user s activity and determines whether a message regarding the installed application should be broadcasted to the user s social networks. As a result the application broadcaster does not spam the user s activity steams on the external social platforms. Third the application broadcaster suggests applications that the user might enjoy based on the activities and interests of the user s friends on the external social platforms.

The description includes a system and method for using social networks to encourage adoption of applications. As an example when a user installs an application on a user device an application broadcaster automatically composes and broadcasts a message about the installed application to the social networks associated with the user. The message about the application may include for example a summary of the application a reference to the application a photo a video a review and a rating the user s activity with the application etc. Thus other users of the social network for example the user s friends become informed about the installed application.

In some embodiments the application broadcaster includes an installation module an activity analyzer and a broadcasting module. The installation module receives a notification indicating that a user installed an application on a user device. The activity analyzer determines whether the user activity associated with the application installed on the user device meets a criterion for broadcasting information about the application. For example the activity analyzer determines whether the user activity associated with the application meets the criterion for broadcasting information about the application based at least in part on the average time the user spends interacting with the application. If the user activity meets the criterion for broadcast the broadcasting module composes a message about the application and broadcasts the message to social networks associated with the user.

In one embodiment application broadcaster includes a message modifier that modifies the message composed by the application broadcaster based at least in part on the settings of the social networks. For example the message modifier may remove a summary of the installed application and provide a link to fit the message within a word limit imposed by a micro blogging social network.

In one embodiment the application broadcaster is operable on the social network server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The social network server also contains a social network application . Thus in some embodiments the application broadcaster is a component of the social network application . Although only one social network server is shown one or more social network servers may be present. The term social network as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to any type of social structure where the users are connected by a common feature. The common feature includes relationships connections e.g. friendship family work an interest etc. The common features are provided by one or more social networking systems such as those included in the architecture including explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users where the relationships form a social graph. In some examples the social graph can reflect a mapping of these users and how they are related. The social graph is stored on the social network server not shown .

In some embodiments the application broadcaster is stored in part on a third party server which is connected to the network via signal line . The third party server includes other types of applications such as an application for publishing a website. In one example the application broadcaster is embeddable code for generating and transmitting broadcasts to the social network server in response to the user downloading an application. In some embodiments the application broadcaster receives information from the social network application about users that visit the website and identifies the user on the website as being associated with the social network application via an application programming interface API .

In yet another embodiment the application broadcaster is stored on a user device which is connected to the network via signal line . The user device can be a computing device for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a game console a portable game player a portable music player a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or any other electronic device capable of accessing the network . In one embodiment the application broadcaster is a browser plug in. In another embodiment the application broadcaster is an application stored on a mobile device such as a smartphone. The user interacts with the user device . When a user downloads an application to the user device the application broadcaster generates and transmits a broadcast to the social network application to notify the other social network users of the user s activities. Although only two user devices are illustrated persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that one or more user devices are available to one or more users

In some embodiments the application broadcaster is operable on the application market server which is coupled to the network via signal line . The application market server also contains an application market . Although only one application market server is shown one or more application market servers may be present. An application market can be any type of store that allows users to search browse purchase and download applications. In one embodiment the application broadcaster is part of the application market e.g. the application broadcaster is part of the same program and is considered part of the same system. The application broadcaster works directly with the application market to broadcast the purchase and or installation of applications purchased by a user from the application market . In one example the application broadcaster incorporates ratings information received by the application market into its own ratings module. The application broadcaster transmits the user activity to the social network application for broadcasting.

The network is a conventional type wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore the network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. In yet another embodiment the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In yet another embodiment the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc. While only one network is coupled to the user devices the social network server the third party server and the application market server in practice one or more networks can be connected to the entities.

Referring now to the hardware implementing the functionality of using social networks for spreading applications is shown in more detail. is a block diagram of a computing device that includes a communication unit a memory and a processor that are coupled to a bus . In one embodiment the computing device is a social network server . In another embodiment the computing device is a third party server . In another embodiment the computing device is an application market server . In yet another embodiment the computing device is a user device

The processor comprises an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. The processor is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . Processor processes data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in one or more processors may be included. The processing capability may be limited to supporting the display of images and the capture and transmission of images. The processing capability might be enough to perform more complex tasks including various types of feature extraction and sampling. It will be obvious to one skilled in the art that other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by processor . In one embodiment the memory includes the application broadcaster . The memory is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components via signal line . The instructions and or data may comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art. In one embodiment the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media such as a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The communication unit receives notifications from the application broadcaster via signal line and transmits the notification to the social network server for publication on the social network application via the network . The communication unit also receives information from the social network server via the network for example information regarding the user s friends such as which applications they downloaded. The communication unit is coupled to the bus . In one embodiment the communication unit includes a port for direct physical connection to the network or to another communication channel. For example the communication unit includes a USB SD CAT 5 or similar port for wired communication with the network . In another embodiment the communication unit includes a wireless transceiver for exchanging data with the network or with another communication channel using one or more wireless communication methods such as IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 BLUETOOTH or another suitable wireless communication method.

In yet another embodiment the communication unit includes a cellular communications transceiver for sending and receiving data over a cellular communications network such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP e mail or another suitable type of electronic communication. In still another embodiment the communication unit includes a wired port and a wireless transceiver. The communication unit also provides other conventional connections to the network for distribution of files and or media objects using standard network protocols such as TCP IP HTTP HTTPS and SMTP as will be understood to those skilled in the art.

Referring to the application broadcaster is shown in more detail. In some embodiments the application broadcaster comprises an installation module a processing module an activity analyzer a ratings module a broadcasting module a message modifier a feedback module and a suggestion module that communicate over the software communication mechanism . Software communication mechanism may be an object bus such as CORBA direct socket communication such as TCP IP sockets among software modules remote procedure calls UDP broadcasts and receipts HTTP connections function or procedure calls etc. Further any or all of the communication could be secure SSH HTTPS etc . The software communication can be implemented on any underlying hardware such as a network the Internet a bus a combination thereof etc.

The installation module is software including routines for determining which applications are installed or uninstalled on a user device . In one embodiment the installation module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for determining and transmitting a record of application installations or uninstallations. In another embodiment the installation module is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the installation module is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the processing module the communication unit and other components of the computing device .

In some embodiments the installation module sends a notification to the processing module indicating that an application has been installed or uninstalled on a user device . In other embodiments where the application broadcaster is stored on the application market server the installation module sends a notification to the processing module indicating that the user downloaded an application from the application market . In some embodiments the notification also includes any updates installed for the application. If the application broadcaster is stored on the user device the installation module detects the installation on user device . If the application broadcaster is stored on the social network server a third party server or the application market server the communication unit receives a notification about installations from the user device and transmits the notification to the installation module .

The processing module is software including routines for processing information regarding an installed application and receiving information relating to user activity associated with the installed application. In one embodiment the processing module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for retrieving and processing information. In another embodiment the processing module is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the processing module is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the installation module the activity analyzer the broadcasting module the communication unit and other components of the computing device .

The processing module receives and processes information about an installed updated application in response to receiving a notification from the installation module . In some embodiments the processing module receives identifying information from the installation module such as a unique identifier associated with the application. The processing module retrieves information about the application from the memory and transmits the information to the appropriate module. The phrase information about the application used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to a summary a link to the application a brief description of how to use the application snap shots videos reviews and ratings from other users of the application updates of the application time of installation of the application etc.

The processing module also receives and processes user activity associated with the installed application if for example the application broadcaster is stored on the user device or the processing module receives information directly from the user device . If the application broadcaster is stored on the social network server a third party server or the application market server the communication unit receives a notification about user activity from the user device and transmits the notification to the processing module . The user activity includes the frequency of use of the application the average time spent for each user session or any other activity for example a high score achieved by the user in a game. The processing module stores the information in the memory .

In some embodiments the processing module processes data relating to the user s social networks approved by the user for broadcasting messages regarding applications. In one embodiment the processing module also receives information regarding a status of a user that includes whether the user is currently logged in to those social networks.

The ratings module is software including routines for recording a user s rating and review of an installed application. In one embodiment the ratings module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for rating and reviewing the installed application. In another embodiment the ratings module is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the ratings module is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the activity analyzer the broadcasting module the communication unit and other components of the computing device .

The ratings module generates and sends a message requesting the user to rate and or review the application after it has been installed. In some embodiments the ratings module waits a certain period of time before sending the message to ensure that the user has had enough time to test out the application to avoid receiving an uninformed rating. In some other embodiments the ratings module periodically sends a message to the user asking for updates to the rating. For example the ratings module sends the message a week after the user installs an update for the application. The ratings module stores the ratings and the reviews given by the user for the installed application in the memory .

The activity analyzer is software including routines for analyzing the user activity associated with the installed application. In one embodiment the activity analyzer is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for analyzing user activity. In another embodiment the activity analyzer is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the activity analyzer is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the processing module the broadcasting module the ratings module and other components of the computing device .

The activity analyzer receives activity information from the user device if the application broadcaster is stored on the user device or from the communication unit if the application broadcaster is stored on the social network server a third party server or the application market server . The activity analyzer also receives feedback information from the feedback module . The activity analyzer analyzes the activity patterns of the user to determine whether a message regarding the installed application should be broadcasted to the user s social networks. The activity analyzer analyzes the information stored by the processing module in the memory to determine whether user activity associated with an installed application meets a criterion for broadcast by inferring the importance of the installed application to the user. For example if user has five applications and user has 100 applications the activity analyzer infers that a new application installed by user is more important than a new application installed by user . The activity analyzer then sends a notification to the broadcasting module to compose and broadcast a message about the new application installed by user

In some other embodiments the activity analyzer measures the user engagement with the application. In order to infer the importance of a new application installed by user the activity analyzer for example checks the user s rating for the application ensures that the application has not been removed from user device and processes data to determine the average time spent and the frequency at which user uses the new application. For example the activity analyzer determines that a user is engaged when the user accesses the application extensively. If the above features indicate that the user activity associated with the installed application meets the criterion of being important to the user the activity analyzer sends a notification to the broadcast module . In some embodiments the activity analyzer determines a threshold level of engagement before sending a notification to the broadcast module . For example if the user s average rating of an application is a three out of five the activity analyzer transmits the notification if the rating exceeds the average rating. In one embodiment the activity analyzer ranks the installed applications based on the user s activity with an application and transmits the notification if the rank meets or exceeds the criterion.

The advantage in determining whether an installed application meets a criterion by inferring the importance of the installed application to the user is that the broadcasting module does not publish notifications about every application that is installed but only the applications that are important and liked by the user. This way the social network activity streams of people associated with the user are not cluttered with messages.

The broadcasting module is software including routines for composing a message regarding an installed application and broadcasting it to the user s social networks via the communication unit . In one embodiment the broadcasting module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for composing and broadcasting messages. In another embodiment the broadcasting module is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the broadcasting module is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the processing module the activity analyzer the ratings module the message modifier the feedback module the communication unit and other components of the computing device .

In response to receiving a notification from the activity analyzer the broadcasting module composes a message regarding the installed application in order to publish it to external social platforms e.g. the user s social networks. The message includes any information regarding the application and the user activity retrieved by the processing module . In one embodiment the message includes an invitation requesting the user s friends to join the user in using the application by installing the application on their own user devices . For example the user can invite the user s friends to join a fantasy league created by the user with an application.

In some embodiments the broadcasting module broadcasts the message only upon receiving an approval for broadcasting the message from the user. In this example the broadcasting module generates a message that is transmitted to the user asking for permission to broadcast the message. In another embodiment the broadcasting module sends a message to the user allowing the user to manually choose the social networks to which the message should be broadcasted. In another embodiment the user is also provided the option of controlling the visibility of the published message in the social networks. For example the user might want people in a group of friends from school to know of an application installed by the user but not a group of people from work. There are multiple ways to implement this option for example by manually selecting each person that will receive the message or by selecting particular groups of people that should receive the notification. In some embodiments the broadcasting module restricts the publication of certain applications according to keywords categories or tags associated with the application. For example the user indicates that gaming applications are not broadcast to a work group violent games are not broadcast to a parenting group and educational games are broadcast to all groups. The broadcasting module generates graphical data for displaying these options to the user. An example of one user interface that is provided to the user for configuring the broadcasting settings is described in detail below and illustrated in .

In some embodiments the application broadcaster includes a message modifier which is software including routines for modifying a message that was generated by the broadcasting module . In one embodiment the message modifier is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for modifying messages. In another embodiment the message modifier is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the message modifier is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the broadcasting module and other components of the computing device .

Most of the current social networks have varying limitations on the content that is published on their activity streams. Thus the message modifier modifies the message composed by the broadcasting module based on the user s social networks. For example the message modifier would remove a summary of the installed application and provide a link to fit the message within a word limit imposed by a micro blogging social network X. In another example the message modifier removes images associated with the application from a message posted to a text only social network. Alternatively the message modifier uploads the image to a server and associates the image with a link for the text only social network so that other users can select the link to view the image. In some other embodiments certain commonly abbreviated words are shortened according to commonly accepted abbreviations. For example the message modifier shortens because to bcs. 

The feedback module is software including routines for providing feedback regarding the published message. In one embodiment the feedback module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for providing feedback. In another embodiment the feedback module is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the feedback module is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor activity analyzer the communication unit and other components of the computing device .

The feedback module receives feedback via the communication unit from the social network server or the application market server and provides feedback to the activity analyzer on how the broadcasted message was received by people associated with the user. In some examples the people associated with the user opt in to having the feedback received by the feedback module . The feedback includes information such as whether the user s friends downloaded the application liked disliked the application rated reviewed the application viewed the application became a fan or put a page for the application in a group etc. This method is advantageous as it allows the activity analyzer to infer the type of applications the user s friends prefer so that it broadcasts messages regarding similar applications in future rather than spamming the activity streams.

In some embodiments the collected information is anonymized before being provided as feedback to the activity analyzer . In this example the information is displayed as general statistics about the application e.g. 80 of users continue to frequently use this application after installation instead of specifically mentioning people associated with the user.

The suggestion module is software including routines for suggesting applications to the user. In one embodiment the suggestion module is a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described below for suggesting applications. In another embodiment the suggestion module is stored in the memory of the computing device and is accessible and executable by the processor . In either embodiment the suggestion module is adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor the memory the communication unit and other components of the computing device .

Since friends share common interests it is highly probable that applications installed by friends will interest the user as well. In embodiments where the user is associated with a large number of users the suggestion module can limit the suggestions based on activity from people that the user frequently interacts with or at least has a bi directional relationship with e.g. both user A and user B have the other user in a group . The suggestion module receives information regarding applications via the communication unit that are installed by people that the user has in groups or follows in social networks and suggests them to the user. For example if friends of the user installed an application the suggestion module will suggest that the user install that application as well. In one embodiment the suggestion module receives user profiles regarding user interests and identifies a correlation between the type of application and the user interests such as a correlation that people the user is associated with that enjoy travelling are more likely to download an application about the weather. In some embodiments the suggestion module anonymizes the collected information before suggesting it to the user. In this example the anonymized statistics are displayed as general statistics about users that share similar interests. For example 90 of people that are interested in bikes enjoyed this biking application.

Referring now to various embodiments will be described. is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment for broadcasting a message to a user s social network regarding an installed application using an application broadcaster . In some embodiments the application broadcaster includes an installation module a processing module and a broadcast module . The processing module receives a notification from the installation module indicating that a new application has been installed. The processing module retrieves information about the installed application. The retrieved information includes any of a summary a link to the application a brief description of how to use the application images associated with the application videos reviews and ratings from other users of the application updates of the application time of installation of the application etc. The processing module receives user activity that is associated with the application. For example the processing module receives information about how the user is taking pictures of food for a restaurant application and the user rated the application five out of five stars. The broadcast module composes a message regarding the installed application and the user activity associated with the installed application and broadcasts the message to the user s social network s via the communication unit . For example the broadcast module invites people in the user s group or friends of the user to download the food application so they can start sharing restaurant reviews and recipes. In some embodiments the broadcast module contacts the user directly for example through an email or a direct message for permission before broadcasting the notification.

If the user activity associated with the installed application does not meet the criterion the process ends. If the user activity associated with the installed application meets the criterion the broadcasting module composes a message including the user s activity and information regarding the application and broadcasts it to the user s social networks via the communication unit . In some embodiments the message modifier modifies the message according to the limitations of each social network before the broadcasting module broadcasts the message.

Turning now to an example graphical illustration of settings for configuring the broadcasting module is illustrated. In some embodiments the broadcasting module generates graphical data for displaying the broadcast settings to a user. In the left hand column various settings associated with the website are included. In this example the application broadcast settings are highlighted. On the right hand side the various broadcast settings are displayed. The first box includes settings for enabling or disabling the broadcast features. The radio button for enabling the application broadcaster is checked.

The second box includes a list of all social networks that are associated with the application broadcaster. In some embodiments a pre populated list of social networks is provided to the user and the user enters credentials for the social network for example a username password and a security challenge. Once the user has provided credentials the user can select which social networks receive broadcast messages from the broadcast application . In this example the user selected buttons for a micro blogging application and a second social network. Below the buttons is a text box for inputting the uniform resource locator URL of a social network that is not included in the list of pre populated applications.

The third box includes options for when to send a broadcast message for particular applications. In this example the user chooses between sending a broadcast message for applications that received a user rating of more than seven out of a 10 point scale more than five out of a ten point scale or any user rating. In this case the user selected the radio button for the any option. Although the user ratings are represented on a 10 point scale the scale can be adjusted for other numbers of points.

The fourth box is an example of an option for modifying how often the broadcast module transmits messages. In some embodiments the broadcast module stores messages for a periodic transmission at one time. In this example the radio buttons are for monthly bi weekly weekly daily and immediately. The user selected the radio button for weekly. 

The fifth box includes an example of the content of the broadcast message. The user can select multiple numbers of options including a description of the installed application the user s activity on the installed application an invitation to the user s friends and visual media e.g. images videos etc. . The fifth box also includes an option where responsive to selection the message modifier modifies content based on the limitations of the social network. In this example the user selected buttons for the description of the installed application an invitation to the user s friends and visual media respectively. Although this example sends invitations to the user s friends the option can be modified for other types of social networks for example by sending invitations to people in the user s groups or people that the user follows.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the specification. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other embodiments structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the specification. For example the specification is described in one embodiment below with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the description applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices

The specification also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

Some embodiments can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. A preferred embodiment is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore some embodiments can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the specification is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the various embodiments as described herein.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specification to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the examples may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the description or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the specification can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the specification is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the specification.

