---

title: Inhibition of dynamin related protein 1 to promote cell death
abstract: The present invention relates to compositions and methods for reducing cell proliferation and/or promoting cell death by inhibiting Drp1. It is based, at least in part, on the discoveries that (i) Drp1 disruption-induced mitochondrial hyperfusion is functionally linked to the cell cycle regulation apparatus, so that Drp1 inhibition results in a disruption of the cell cycle and DNA aberrancies; (ii) inhibition of both Drp1 and ATR are synthetic lethal causing increased DNA damage and apoptotic cell death; and (iii) even in resistant cell lines, Drp1 inhibitor (e.g., mdivi-1) together with a second antiproliferative agent (e.g., cisplatin or carboplatin) act synergistically to promote apoptosis. Accordingly, the present invention provides for novel anticancer strategies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08759097&OS=08759097&RS=08759097
owner: University of Pittsburgh—of the Commonwealth System of Higher Eduction
number: 08759097
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120418
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 476 759 filed Apr. 19 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Numbers R01CA148644 P30CA047904 P50CA097190 and P50CA121973 from the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in ASCII format via EFS Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Aug. 1 2012 is named 72396484.txt and is 47 327 bytes in size.

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for reducing cell proliferation and or promoting cell death by inhibiting dynamin related protein 1. It further relates to methods of treating cancer which employ an inhibitor of dynamin related protein 1 alone or together with a second antiproliferative agent.

Mitochondria are dynamic organelles that consistently undergo fission and fusion events. Deficiencies in the proteins regulating mitochondrial dynamics are associated with a number of human pathologies including neurodegenerative diseases and newborn lethality Westermann 2010 . Recently mitochondria have been shown to undergo morphological remodeling as cells progress through the cell cycle Mitra et al. 2009 . At the G1 S boundary mitochondrial tubules form a highly fused network which is associated with increased mitochondrial ATP production and high levels of cyclin E in order to promote G1 to S transition Mitra et al. 2009 . This hyperfused mitochondrial network is then disassembled and becomes increasingly fragmented through S G2 and M phase of the cell cycle with the greatest fragmentation evident during mitosis in order to allow the proper partitioning of mitochondria between two daughter cells during cytokinesis Kashatus et al. 2011 . Thus mitochondrial remodeling throughout the cell cycle is considered to meet the cellular energy demands during the progression of specific stages of the cell cycle and to ensure faithful inheritance of mitochondria during cell division. However how deficiencies in the proteins that regulate mitochondrial dynamics impact cell cycle progression and hence directly contribute to the development of diseases is not clear.

The dynamic regulation of mitochondrial morphology is achieved by the coordination of mitochondrial fission and fusion events Green and Van Houten 2011 . Dynamin related protein 1 Drp1 a large dynamin related GTPase is essential for mitochondrial fission Smirnova et al. 2001 . Loss of Drp1 results in elongated mitochondria and Drp1 deficiencies have been identified in several human diseases Cho et al. 2009 Wang et al. 2008 Waterham et al. 2007 . Drp1 is directly regulated by the machinery that controls cell cycle progression. For example Drp1 is phosphorylated at Ser585 by cdc2 cyclin B in order to promote mitochondrial fission during mitosis Taguchi et al. 2007 . Drp1 deficiency is generally thought to cause mitochondrial dysfunction due to a failure of a Drp1 dependent mechanism of mitophagy that removes damaged mitochondria within the cell Twig et al. 2008 . The resulting accumulation of damaged mitochondria may lead to a depletion of cellular ATP and an inhibition of cell proliferation Parone et al. 2008 . Such an energy depletion related cell proliferation defect may be caused by a metabolic checkpoint that triggers an AMPK and p53 dependent G1 S cell cycle arrest Jones et al. 2005 Owusu Ansah et al. 2008 . Consistent with such a mechanism overexpression of mutant Drp1 K38A results in a hyperfused mitochondrial network and a p53 dependent delay of S phase entry Mitra et al. 2009 . However reduced cell proliferation has also been observed in the absence of cellular ATP depletion in non immortalized Drp1 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts MEFs Wakabayashi et al. 2009 . This suggests that defective mitochondrial dynamics may affect cell proliferation through mechanisms that are not associated with mitochondrial energy metabolism.

Chiang et al. 2009 studied Drp 1 in lung adenocarcinoma and report a link between Drp 1 and chemotherapy drug resistance that is related to intracellular distribution of Drp 1 where sequestration of Drp 1 to the nucleus which may be related to hypoxia is associated with resistance to chemotherapy and poor prognosis.

United States Patent Application Publication Nos. US2005 0038051 and US2008 0287473 both by Nunnari et al. disclose mdivi 1 referred to as compound A1 and mfisi 1 therein and related compounds. These applications also disclose that mdivi 1 is a selective inhibitor of Dnm1 the yeast ortholog of Drp1 and inhibits mitochondrial fission and apoptosis. Further a polypeptide antagonist of calcineurin was reported to inhibit Drp1 dependent mitochondrial fragmentation and apoptosis Cereghetti and Scorrano 2010 .

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for reducing cell proliferation and or promoting cell death by inhibiting Drp1. It is based at least in part on the discoveries that i Drp1 disruption induced mitochondrial hyperfusion is functionally linked to the cell cycle regulation apparatus so that Drp1 inhibition results in a disruption of the cell cycle and DNA aberrancies ii inhibition of both Drp1 and ATR are synthetic lethal causing increased DNA damage and apoptotic cell death and iii even in resistant cell lines Drp1 inhibitor e.g. mdivi 1 together with a second antiproliferative agent e.g. cisplatin act synergistically to promote apoptosis. Accordingly the present invention provides for novel anticancer strategies.

For clarity and not by way of limitation the detailed description is divided into the following subsections 

In certain non limiting embodiments inhibitors of Drp1 that may be used according to the invention include small molecule inhibitors such as the compounds disclosed in United States Patent Application Publication Nos. US2005 0038051 and US2008 0287473 both by Nunnari et al. as inhibitors of the yeast Dynamin Related GTPase and Drp1 homology Dnm1p including but not limited to the compound depicted herein in and referred to as mdivi 1. In further non limiting embodiments inhibitors of Drp1 include mdivi 1 related compounds described in Cassidy Stone et al. Dev Cell 14 193 204 for example including compounds B C D E F G H and I of of that reference where compound A mdivi 1 and compound B are said to have full efficacy relative to mdivi 1 and compounds C D and E are said to have moderate efficacy and compounds F G H and I are said to have poor efficacy. In specific non limiting embodiments a Drp1 inhibitor is mdivi 1 or a mdivi 1 related compound which exhibits at least 50 of the biological activity of mdivi 1 on mitochondrial morphology. In specific non limiting embodiments a Drp1 inhibitor inhibits a Drp1 protein selected from the group consisting of isoform 1 NCBI Ace. No. NP036192.2 SEQ ID NO 1 isoform 2 NCBI Ace. No. NP036193.2 SEQ ID NO 2 isoform 3 NCBI Ace. No. NP005681.2 SEQ ID NO 3 and protein as set forth in GenBank Accession No. AAH24590.1 SEQ ID NO 4 .

In certain non limiting embodiments inhibitors of Drp1 that may be used according to the invention include nucleic acids that inhibit expression and or reduce activity of Drp1 for example but not limited to ribozymes antisense oligonucleotide inhibitors and siRNA inhibitors. A ribozyme refers to a nucleic acid capable of cleaving a specific nucleic acid sequence. Within some embodiments a ribozyme should be understood to refer to RNA molecules that contain anti sense sequences for specific recognition and an RNA cleaving enzymatic activity see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 633. In contrast antisense oligonucleotides generally are small oligonucleotides complementary to a part of a gene to impact expression of that gene. Gene expression can be inhibited through hybridization of an oligonucleotide to a specific gene or messenger RNA mRNA thereof. In some cases a therapeutic strategy can be applied to dampen expression of one or several genes believed to initiate or to accelerate inflammation see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 822 087 and WO 2006 062716. A small interfering RNA or short interfering RNA or siRNA or short hairpin RNA or shRNA are forms of RNA interference RNAi . An interfering RNA can be a double stranded RNA or partially double stranded RNA molecule that is complementary to a target nucleic acid sequence for example caspase 6 or caspase 9. Micro interfering RNA s miRNA also fall in this category. A double stranded RNA molecule is formed by the complementary pairing between a first RNA portion and a second RNA portion within the molecule. The length of each portion generally is less than 30 nucleotides in length e.g. 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 or 10 nucleotides . In some embodiments the length of each portion is 19 to 25 nucleotides in length. In some siRNA molecules the complementary first and second portions of the RNA molecule are the stem of a hairpin structure. The two portions can be joined by a linking sequence which can form the loop in the hairpin structure. The linking sequence can vary in length. In some embodiments the linking sequence can be 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 or 13 nucleotides in length. Linking sequences can be used to join the first and second portions and are known in the art. The first and second portions are complementary but may not be completely symmetrical as the hairpin structure may contain 3 or 5 overhang nucleotides e.g. a 1 2 3 4 or 5 nucleotide overhang . The RNA molecules of the invention can be expressed from a vector or produced chemically or synthetically. In certain non limiting embodiments the ribozyme siRNA or antisense RNA inhibits expression of Drp1 and may comprise a portion which is complementary to a nucleic acid sequence as set forth in one or more of GenBank Accession No. BC024590.1 NCBI Reference Sequence NM012062.3 transcript variant 1 NM012063.2 transcript variant 2 or NM005690.3 transcript variant 3 see SEQ ID NO 5 6 7 and 8 respectively . In one specific non limiting embodiment an siRNA may comprise the sequence 5 AACGCAGAGCAGCGGAAAGAG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 Sugioka et al. 2004 .

In certain non limiting embodiments of the invention the inhibitor of Drp1 may be Dynasore Macia et al. 2006 . Experiments to date have not demonstrated a synergistic effect between Dynasore and cisplatin.

Additional Drp1 inhibitors may be identified as compounds that have comparable effects on Drp1 activity as Drp1 siRNA and mdivi 1 for example but not limited to induction of G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy see for example and B .

In certain non limiting embodiments the present invention provides for pharmaceutical formulations for therapeutic use of a Drp1 inhibitor. Such formulations are compositions comprising a Drp1 inhibitor together with one or more of the following sodium chloride a pharmaceutical buffer a carrier and a solvent. Non limiting examples of solvents include water saline water miscible alcohols dimethylsulfoxide and mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of carriers include albumin and cyclodextrin.

In particular non limiting embodiments of the invention the Drp1 inhibitor is a compound disclosed in US2005 0038051 and or US2008 0287473 and is comprised in a pharmaceutical composition further comprising human serum albumin and or cyclodextrin 2 Hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin HP CD . In a specific non limiting embodiment the Drp1 inhibitor is mdivi 1 and is comprised in a pharmaceutical composition further comprising albumin e.g. human serum albumin HSA and or cyclodextrin 2 Hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin HP CD .

In particular non limiting embodiments the molar ratio of Drp1 inhibitor to HSA is between 0.01 1 to 1 1. In a specific non limiting embodiment the molar ratio of Drp1 inhibitor to HSA is 1 2.25. In certain non limiting embodiments the concentration of HSA is between 0.01 to 30 weight volume w v . In a subset of such embodiments the Drp1 inhibitor is mdivi 1.

In particular non limiting embodiments the molar ratio of Drp1 inhibitor to cyclodextrin e.g. HP CD is between 0.01 1 and 1 1. In particular non limiting embodiments the concentration of HP CD is between 1 to 50 w v. In a specific non limiting embodiment the concentration of HP CD is between about 35 40 w v. In a subset of such embodiments the Drp1 inhibitor is mdivi 1.

One or more Drp1 inhibitor may be used in conjunction with treatment with one or more other antiproliferative agent sometimes referred to herein as a second antiproliferative agent. Suitable antiproliferative agents include but are not limited to radiation therapy and chemotherapeutic agents. Suitable chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to i platinum containing compounds such as cisplatin carboplatin oxiplatin and bisplatinate compounds ii other alkylating agents including but not limited to carmustine cyclophosphamide dacarbazine ifosfamide melphalan and thiotepa and iii ATR inhibitors including but not limited to sc 202964 schisandrin B CGK733 caffeine and ATR inhibitors set forth in Toledo et al. 2011 and or Reaper et al. 2011.

The present invention relates to methods for reducing cell proliferation and or promoting cell death by inhibiting Drp1.

In certain non limiting embodiments the invention provides for a method for reducing cell proliferation and or promoting cell death by administering to a cell an effective amount of a Drp1 inhibitor optionally in conjunction combination with administering an effective amount of a second antiproliferative agent. Examples of second antiproliferative agents are provided above. An effective amount is an amount that reduces cell proliferation and or promotes cell death. Where the Drp1 inhibitor is used in conjunction combination with a second antiproliferative agent the amount of each may in some instances be less than an effective amount for that agent taken singly but when both are used effectiveness is achieved.

 In conjunction combination with in conjunction with or in combination with all mean that the Drp1 inhibitor and the second antiproliferative agent are administered to a cell or subject as part of a treatment regimen or plan. These terms do not require that the Drp1 inhibitor and second antiproliferative agent are physically combined prior to administration nor that they be administered over the same time frame. For example drawing analogy to electronics they may be administered in series or in parallel.

In certain non limiting embodiments the invention provides for a method for reducing cell proliferation and or promoting cell death in a subject in need of such treatment comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a Drp1 inhibitor optionally in conjunction with a second antiproliferative agent.

In certain non limiting embodiments the present invention provides for a method of treating a disorder associated with cell proliferation comprising administering to a subject in need of such treatment an effective amount of a Drp1 inhibitor optionally in conjunction with a second antiproliferative agent.

A subject in need of such treatment is a subject suffering from a disorder or at risk of developing a disorder where the disorder involves unwanted cell proliferation including but not limited to neoplastic disorders cancer solid and non solid and disorders of immunity.

In certain non limiting embodiments the invention provides for a method for reducing cancer cell proliferation and or promoting cancer cell death in a subject in need of such treatment comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a Drp1 inhibitor optionally in conjunction with a second antiproliferative agent.

In certain non limiting embodiments the present invention provides for a method of treating a cancer in a subject comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a Drp1 inhibitor optionally in conjunction with a second antiproliferative agent.

Cancers and cancer cells which may be treated according to the invention include but are not limited to breast cancer lung adenocarcinoma small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer mesothelioma glioblastoma multiforme melanoma hepatocarcinoma pancreatic carcinoma gastric carcinoma biliary carcinoma intestinal carcinoma colon carcinoma renal carcinoma sarcoma ovarian carcinoma testicular carcinoma prostate cancer bladder cancer osteosarcoma squamous cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck leukemia and lymphoma.

In certain non limiting embodiments a Drp1 inhibitor is administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous topical intramuscular subcutaneous oral intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intranasal pulmonary vaginal or rectal. In certain non limiting embodiments a Drp1 inhibitor is administered via an implant. In certain non limiting embodiments a Drp1 inhibitor is administered by local instillation for example at a tumor site or site of tumor resection.

In certain non limiting embodiments a secondary antiproliferative agent where used is a administered by a route selected from the group consisting of intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous oral intraarterial intraperitoneal intrathecal intranasal pulmonary vaginal or rectal. In certain non limiting embodiments a second antiproliferative agent is administered via an implant. In certain non limiting embodiments a second antiproliferative agent is administered by local instillation for example at a tumor site or site of tumor resection.

In a specific non limiting embodiment the Drp1 inhibitor is mdivi 1 and is administered to achieve a local concentration at the site where cell proliferation is to be inhibited of between about 0.001 to 100 M or between about 0.1 to 50 M.

In a specific non limiting embodiment the second antiproliferative agent is cisplatin and is administered to achieve a local concentration at the site where cell proliferation is to be inhibited of between about 0.001 to 100 M or between about 0.1 to 50 M.

In a specific non limiting embodiment the second antiproliferative agent is cisplatin and is administered at a dose of 10 100 mg m administered intravenously.

In a specific non limiting embodiment the second antiproliferative agent is carboplatin and is administered at a dose of 100 400 mg m administered intravenously.

In a specific non limiting embodiment cisplatin or carboplatin is administered with HSA carrier at a molar ratio of cisplatin to HSA of about 1 2.25 

The human breast carcinoma cell lines MDA MB 231 MCF7 and MDA MB 157 and the human lung carcinoma cell line A549 and H1299 were obtained from American Type Culture Collection ATCC . Cells were cultured in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal calf serum and 1 penicillin streptomycin in 5 COat 37 C. MDA MB 231 cell line was established by culturing MDA MB 231 cells in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal calf serum 1 penicillin streptomycin 1 mM sodium pyruvate 50 g ml uridine and 50 ng ml ethidium bromide for at least four weeks King and Attardi 1996 . DNA transfection was performed using FuGENE 6 Roche and siRNA transfection was performed using oligofectamine Invitrogen according to the manufacture s instructions. Stable cell lines were established by G418 selection and cell sorting following transfection.

pAcGFP1 Mito and pDsRed2 Mito vectors were purchased from Clontech. Histone H2B GFP Kanda et al. 1998 was purchased from Addgene Addgene plasmid 11680 . ATR siRNA was purchased from Dharmacon while all other siRNAs including AllStars Negative Control siRNA were purchased from Qiagen. The siRNA sense strand sequences are as follows ATR 5 AAGAGTTCTCAGAAGTCAACC 3 SEQ ID NO 10 Drp1 5 AACGCAGAGCAGCGGAAAGAG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 Sugioka et al. 2004 Opa1 5 AAGTTATCAGTCTGAGCCAGGTT 3 SEQ ID NO 11 cyclin E 5 AACCAAACTTGAGGAAATCTA 3 SEQ ID NO 12 Hemerly et al. 2009 ATM 5 AAGCGCCTGATTCGAGATCCT 3 SEQ ID NO 13 White et al. 2008 .

Cells were transfected with either control or Drp1 siRNA and replated into 96 well plates at the following day. Cell proliferation was determined at 24 h intervals using a CyQUANT Direct Cell Proliferation Assay kit Invitrogen according to the manufacturer s instruction.

Apoptosis was determined by staining cells with Annexin V FITC and propidium iodide PI using an FITC Annexin V Apoptosis Detection Kit BD PharMingen San Diego Calif. followed by flow cytometric analysis using a CyAn ADP Analyzer Beckman Coulter Brea Calif. . Data were analyzed using Summit software.

MDA MB 231 cells were synchronized at G2 M phase by single thymidine 2 mM block 19 h followed by release into nocodazole 100 ng ml containing media 16 h thymidine nocodazole block .

For DNA content analysis cells were trypsinized and fixed in 70 ice cold ethanol overnight at 4 C. After fixation the cells were washed with 1 BSA PBS and permeabilized using 0.25 triton X 100 in 1 BSA PBS. Cells were then incubated in PI solution PBS containing 50 g ml of PI and 40 g ml of RNase A for 30 min at room temperature. S phase cells were detected using a bromodeoxyuridine BrdU incorporation assay. Cells were pulse labeled with 10 M BrdU for 30 min at 37 C. Cells were then trypsinized and fixed in 70 ice cold ethanol overnight at 4 C. DNA was denatured in 2 N HCl containing 0.5 Triton X 100 and the cells were then neutralized with 0.1 M NaBO. Cells were then stained with FITC labeled anti BrdU antibody BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. . To determine the number of cells in mitosis cells were fixed permeabilized and stained with Alexa Fluor 647 conjugated phospho Histone H3 Ser 10 antibody Cell signaling technology . Samples were then analyzed on a CyAn ADP Analyzer Beckman Coulter Brea Calif. . 5 10events per sample were acquired to ensure adequate mean fluorescence levels. Data were analyzed using Summit software.

Total cellular ATP content was determined using a luminescent ATP detection kit ATPlite PerkinElmer Life Sciences Boston Mass. according to the manufacturer s instructions. The luminescence intensity was measured using a microplate reader Synergy 2 BioTek instruments Winooski Vt. .

Oxygen consumption rate OCR and extracellular acidification rate ECAR were measured as we previously described Qian and Van Houten 2010 . Cells were seeded in XF24 cell culture plates at 4 10cells well and incubated in 5 COat 37 C. Prior to the analysis cells were washed and growth medium was replaced with bicarbonate free modified RPMI 1640 medium the assay medium Molecular Devices Sunnyvale Calif. . Cells were then incubated for another 60 min in a 37 C. incubator without CO. OCR and ECAR measurements were then performed simultaneously using a Seahorse XF24 Extracellular Flux Analyzer Seahorse Bioscience North Billerica Mass. .

To measure mitochondrial membrane potential and superoxide generation cells were incubated in either 20 nM of TMRM Invitrogen or 2.5 M of MitoSox Invitrogen for 20 min at 37 C. respectively. Cells were then trypsinized and suspended in HBSS containing 1 BSA. TMRM and MitoSox fluorescence intensity were analyzed using a CyAn ADP Analyzer Beckman Coulter Brea Calif. . 5 10events per sample were acquired and the results were analyzed using Summit software.

Cells were lysed in cell lysis buffer Cell signaling technology containing complete protease inhibitor Roche . Cell lysates were cleared at 15 000 rpm for 15 min at 4 C. The protein content of the cleared cell lysate was quantified using a Bio Rad Protein Assay kit Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . Then the cell lysates were combined with 2 SDS sample buffer. The equal amount of protein was separated on Tris glycine or Tris acetate gels Invitrogen . The separated proteins were blotted onto a polyvinylidene difluoride membrane and blocked overnight at 4 C. in phosphate buffered saline containing 0.1 Tween 20 and 10 nonfat dry milk blocking buffer . Membranes were incubated with primary antibody in blocking buffer overnight at 4 C. Primary antibodies used were Drp1 and Opa1 were from BD Biosciences actin AC 15 and ATM MAT3 4G10 8 were from Sigma cyclin E HE12 cyclin B1 H 20 and ATR N 19 were from Santa Cruz Biotechnology phospho cdc2 Tyr15 Chk1 2G1D5 phospho Chk2 Thr68 C13C1 Chk2 1C12 and cleaved caspase 3 were from Cell Signaling Technology phospho Chk1 Ser317 was from R D systems cdh1 was a gift from Dr. Yong Wan phospho ATM S1981 was from Epitomics and phospho Histone H2AX Ser139 JBW301 was from Millipore. Membranes were then washed and incubated in peroxidase conjugated anti rabbit IgG Sigma anti mouse IgG Sigma or anti goat IgG Santa Cruz Biotechnology secondary antibody for 1 h at room temperature. Membranes were washed and developed using SuperSignal West Femto Maximum Sensitivity Substrate Thermo Fisher Scientific .

Cells were fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde Electron microscopy sciences Hatfield Pa. in PBS for 15 min at 37 C. and blocked using 3 BSA in PBS containing 0.3 Triton X 100 overnight at 4 C. For centrosome staining cells were incubated for 1 hour at room temperature with anti tubulin antibody Sigma followed by an incubation with the secondary Alex Fluor 594 goat anti mouse antibody Invitrogen for 1 hour at room temperature. tubulin was visualized by incubation with Alex Fluor 555 conjugated anti tubulin antibody Cell Signaling Technology . Slides were mounted with VECTASHIELD mounting medium containing DAPI Vector Laboratories Burlingame Calif. . Confocal images were captured using a laser scanning confocal microscope Olympus FLUOVIEW FV 1000 with a PlanApo N 60 oil immersion objective NA 1.42 Olympus .

Cells were plated on 40 mm diameter coverglass and incubated for 24 hours at 37 C. The coverglass was then assembled into an environmentally controlled closed chamber system FCS2 live cell chamber Bioptechs Butler Pa. . The chamber system was then mounted on an inverted confocal microscope Nikon A1 Nikon controlled by NIS Elements software. Leibovitz s L 15 medium supplemented with 10 FBS and 1 penicillin streptomycin was used and the temperature of the chamber was maintained at 37 C. during the imaging. The excitation wavelengths for GFP and DsRed2 were 488 and 543 nm respectively. Signal was collected through a Plan Apo VC 60 Oil immersion objective NA 1.40 Nikon . The number of individual Z stacks was set to cover the entire thickness of the cell with the step size of 1 m. Time lapse images were captured at the interval of no time delay. The perfect focus system PFS was applied to automatically correct possible focus drift during the period of time lapse imaging. Post acquisition analysis of image files was performed using MetaMorph Molecular Devices Image J National Institutes of Health and Photoshop Adobe .

Data are expressed as mean standard deviation. A Student s t test was used for the comparisons between two groups. p

Loss of the fission protein Drp1 causes mitochondrial hyperfusion and induces G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy. To investigate the functional consequences of defective mitochondrial dynamics on cell cycle progression we knocked down the expression of the mitochondrial fission protein Drp1 using siRNA. Cell cycle analysis revealed that loss of Drp1 induced G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy DNA content 4N in a variety of cell lines independent of their p53 status . Since MDA MB 231 cells showed the most severe phenotype we selected this cell line for further investigations into the underlying mechanism. Mitochondria in MDA MB 231 cells are thinner and have less cristae than mitochondria in MCF7 cells . Drp1 deficiency in MDA MB 231 cells induced a hyperfused mitochondrial network as expected as well as a remarkable decrease in cell proliferation . To confirm that these phenotypes were the consequences of Drp1 deficiency and to exclude the possible off target effects of the siRNA we employed a selective small molecule inhibitor of Drp1 mdivi 1 Cassidy Stone et al. 2008 . Mdivi 1 induced the similar G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy as Drp1 deficiency achieved by using siRNA . Thus Drp1 function is essential for proper cell cycle progression.

To determine whether mitochondrial fission per se is directly responsible for the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient cells we knocked down an essential mitochondrial fusion protein Opa1 Cipolat et al. 2004 to counteract the Drp1 knockdown induced mitochondrial hyperfusion. Knockdown of Opa1 restored the mitochondrial fragmentation in Drp1 deficient cells . These Drp1 and Opa1 double knockdown cells showed lower G2 M accumulation and a two fold decrease in aneuploidy as compared to when Drp1 alone was knocked down compare . These results indicate that the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy induced in Drp1 deficient cells required mitochondrial hyperfusion.

The G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient cells are not caused by changes in mitochondrial energy metabolism. Cellular energy status has been recognized as important for cell cycle progression Mandal et al. 2005 . We therefore evaluated if the mitochondrial energy metabolism plays a role in regulating the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy in Drp1 deficient MDA MB 231 cells. Contrary to the previous report using HeLa cells Parone et al. 2008 there is no depletion of total cellular ATP following Drp1 knockdown . Since changes in total intracellular ATP levels may not reflect the changes in mitochondrial metabolism in cancer cells because of the Warburg effect Warburg et al. 1927 we undertook a detailed analysis to address whether mitochondrial function is altered in Drp1 deficient cells. We observed a slight decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and about a 25 decrease in the oxygen consumption rate OCR which is accompanied with a concomitant increase in extracellular acidification rate ECAR a marker of glycolysis in Drp1 deficient cells. Consistent with these data we observed a decreased mitochondrial contribution indicated by lower ATP levels in the presence of 2 deoxyglucose 2DG which is compensated by an increased glycolysis contribution indicated by higher ATP levels in the presence of oligomycin in order to maintain total cellular ATP levels in Drp1 deficient cells. These observations indicate that loss of Drp1 in MDA MB 231 cells reduces mitochondrial energy metabolism. ROS production due to mitochondrial dysfunction is frequently considered a cause of cellular damage and cell cycle arrest Owusu Ansah et al. 2008 . However we observed no increase in mitochondrial ROS generation in Drp1 deficient MDA MB 231 cells using the mitochondrial superoxide indicator MitoSox . These results indicate that the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient cells cannot be attributed to changes in total ATP production or mitochondrially generated ROS.

To further exclude the potential role for mitochondrial energy and ROS in mediating the cell cycle defects observed in Drp1 deficient cells we examined cell cycle progression in MDA MB 231 0 cells following knockdown of Drp1. Mitochondria in 0 cells do not contribute to total cellular ATP generation and are unable to produce ROS Weinberg et al. 2010 due to a deficiency in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation that is caused by the depletion of mitochondrial DNA Qian and Van Houten 2010 . Loss of Drp1 in MDA MB 231 0 cells resulted in elongated mitochondria G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy that are similar to what we observed in the parental MDA MB 231 cells B . Furthermore treatment of MDA MB 231 cells with either oligomycin a complex V inhibitor that suppresses mitochondrial respiration FCCP an uncoupler that depolarizes mitochondrial membrane potential or antimycin A a complex III inhibitor that stimulates mitochondrial ROS production did not induce G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy . These data further support our conclusion that the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient cells are not caused by defects in mitochondrial energy metabolism.

The G2 M cell cycle arrest observed in Drp1 deficient cells is not caused by disruptions in the molecular machinery that is essential for the G2 M cell cycle transition. To investigate the mechanisms underlying the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient cells we synchronized MDA MB 231 cells at G2 M phase using a single thymidine block followed by nocodazole treatment henceforth referred to as a thymidine nocodazole block and then monitored the changes in G2 M phase related molecular events following the release from G2 M cell cycle block . Both control and Drp1 deficient MDA MB 231 cells were able to be blocked at G2 M phase as shown by their 4N DNA content immediately following the thymidine nocodazole block FIG. B 0 h release . Phosphorylation of histone H3 at serine residue Ser10 is associated with chromosome condensation and mitotic entry Crosio et al. 2002 therefore the phosphorylation of historic H3 is used as a marker to distinguish M phase cells from G2 phase cells both of which contain 4N DNA content. Immediately following the thymidine nocodazole block we observed that the levels of positive phospho histone H3 in Drp1 knockdown cells was 10 fold lower than in control cells even though both control and Drp1 deficient cells contained 4N DNA content. These data suggest that the accumulation of 4N DNA content in Drp1 deficient cells was largely due to the cell cycle arrest at G2 phase rather than M phase. Following the release from the G2 M block control cells rapidly entered the cell cycle such that the majority of cells were in G1 phase with 2N DNA content at 6 h . In contrast the majority of Drp1 deficient cells were still at G2 M phase as indicated by the large fraction of cells with 4N DNA content at 6 h following release from the block . These data indicated that loss of Drp1 prevented G2 to M cell cycle transition.

To examine the integrity of molecular events associated with M phase entry we examined the activity of maturation mitosis promoting factor MPF . MPF is a heterodimeric protein composed of cyclin B and cdc2 serine threonine kinase Doree and Hunt 2002 . Both the accumulation of cyclin B1 and dephosphorylation of cdc2 at Tyr15 are required for the initiation of mitosis Norbury et al. 1991 . Drp1 deficient MDA MB 231 cells were defective in the accumulation of cyclin B1 and the dephosphorylation of cdc2 at Tyr15 in response to thymidine nocodazole block . High levels of phosphorylated cdc2 have previously been associated with effective G2 M cell cycle checkpoint activation Lew and Kornbluth 1996 . These data indicate that Drp1 deficiency causes suppression of MPF activity and subsequent defect in mitotic entry. Cdh1 is required for the degradation of cyclin B1 and the expression pattern of cdh1 through the cell cycle is similar to that of cyclin B1 Listovsky et al. 2004 . Immediately following the release from the thymidine nocodazole block control cells showed high levels of cyclin B1 and cdh1 which rapidly declined during the next few hours. This is in stark contrast to the Drp1 knockdown cells which showed initially low levels of cyclin B1 and very low levels of cdh1 with high levels of phosphorylated cdc2. These Drp1 knockdown cells once released from the thymidine nocodazole block showed a slow increase in cyclin B1 and cdh1 with a decrease in phosphorylated cdc2 . This particular pattern observed in Drp1 knockdown cells represents the slow progression through G2 M phase which is associated with subsequent aneuploidy. These data are consistent with an induction of a G2 M cell cycle checkpoint in Drp1 deficient cells rather than a disruption in the molecular machinery that is essential for the G2 M cell cycle transition.

Loss of Drp1 induces chromosomal instability and centrosome overamplification. Aneuploidy is frequently a consequence of the chromosomal instability that is associated with defects in mitotic segregation of chromosomes Rajagopalan and Lengauer 2004 . We observed misaligned chromosomes in metaphase and lagging chromosomes in anaphase as Drp1 deficient cells progressed through mitosis B . The hyperfused mitochondrial network was maintained throughout the mitosis in Drp1 deficient cells in contrast to the fragmented mitochondrial morphology observed in control cells . These data indicate that defects in mitochondrial fission lead to the defects in chromosome segregation during mitosis. Given that Drp1 deficient cells still retained the ability to progress through mitosis albeit at a greatly reduced rate such defects in chromosome segregation could give rise to aneuploidy.

Abnormal extra centrosomes are known to be associated with chromosome instability via formation of aberrant mitotic spindles Ganem et al. 2009 . Depending on the cell cycle phase normal cells contain one or two centrosomes. We observed that Drp1 deficient cells frequently contained more than two centrosomes relative to control cells D and E . The Drp1 deficient cells containing extra centrosomes also showed abnormal nuclear morphology and micronuclei a phenotype that is again indicative of chromosome instability. In images obtained from single focal plane we observed that over amplified centrosomes were often surrounded by aggregated mitochondria indicating that mitochondrial aggregation is associated with centrosomal abnormalities .

Loss of Drp1 induces mitochondrial aggregation around the microtubule organizing center MTOC . Since the changes in the mitochondrial morphology per se play a direct role in mediating Drp1 deficiency induced cell cycle defects as demonstrated by that knockdown of mitochondrial fusion protein Opa1 reversed the G2 M arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient cells we undertook a detailed analysis of mitochondrial dynamics in Drp1 deficient cells. Microtubules originate at the centrosome the main microtubule organizing center and are tracks for mitochondrial transportation and distribution. Since we had observed a centrosome defect in Drp1 deficient cells we reasoned that the morphological relationship between mitochondria and microtubules might be defective in these cells. In control MDA MB 231 cells both the mitochondria and microtubules were observed to be widespread in the cytoplasm and the area that contained a high concentration of microtubules indirectly marked the location of the MTOC B . In Drp1 deficient cells we observed that mitochondria aggregated around the MTOC with few elongated mitochondria radiating along microtubule tracks from the mitochondrial aggregates toward the peripheral regions of the cells. We propose that this morphological remodeling results from the retraction and fusion of mitochondria dispersed in peripheral region of the cytoplasm to the MTOC and this in turn lead to mitochondrial aggregation and a large region of cytoplasm that contains no mitochondria for example see cell b in . It is also notable that cell b shows an abnormal nuclear morphology and the micronuclei were located inside such mitochondrial aggregates. Therefore the aggregation of mitochondria around the MTOC may affect intracellular homeostasis such as Ca2 signaling that directly contributes to the defects of centrosome duplication and other cell cycle related events Matsumoto and Mailer 2002 .

Mitochondrial aggregates have been described as clusters of tubules rather than a large mass of coalescing membrane Smirnova et al. 1998 . However the exact process through which the highly interconnected mitochondrial aggregates are formed is not known. We generated time lapse movies that revealed markedly reduced mitochondrial motility and redistribution due to lack of fission in Drp1 deficient cells and supplementary material Movie 1 4 . Nevertheless mitochondria were still able to undergo some remodeling in these cells even with the limited frequency and within the limited spatial region. For example a branching event in Drp1 deficient cells is indicated a in and supplementary material Movie 5. Furthermore fusion is not limited to end joining fusion between separate mitochondria and can occur as a cross fusion between branched mitochondrial tubules that make contact as shown in region b in and supplementary material Movie 6. In this example mitochondria underwent a morphological change from a simple fork shape to a complicated net like structure. These preserved branching and fusion abilities in Drp1 deficient cells eventually build up a complicated mitochondrial network which appears as mitochondrial aggregates. We believe that these examples are the paradigms that demonstrate how a vast hyperfused mitochondrial network may be generated in the condition of lack of fission.

The G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient cells are consequences of replication stress initiated DNA damage signaling that involves ATM Chk2 and ATR Chk1 kinases. We sought to understand the molecular mechanism that causes the G2 M arrest and aneuploidy in Drp1 deficient cells. Mitochondrial hyperfusion induced either by overexpression of mutant Drp1 K38A or by Drp1 inhibitor mdivi 1 has previously been associated with the onset of DNA replication and cyclin E accumulation in HCT116 and NRK cells Mitra et al. 2009 . In contrast we observed a decrease in cyclin E levels in Drp1 deficient MDA MB 231 cells relative to control cells FIG. A lanes 1 and 2 . Cyclin E levels accumulate at the G1 S phase boundary decline during S phase and become low or undetectable when replication is complete Ekholm et al. 2001 . To determine whether this reduction in cyclin E was a reflection of the accumulation of Drp1 deficient cells at G2 M phase we used nocodazole to arrest both Drp1 deficient and control cells at the G2 M phase. While cyclin E was low in control cells arrested at G2 M with nocodazole the cyclin E levels were not changed in nocodazole treated Drp1 deficient cells FIG. A lanes 3 and 4 . Thus cyclin E is maintained at high levels in G2 M phase in Drp1 deficient cells as compared to that in control cells. These results suggest that the control of cyclin E expression is uncoupled from the cell cycle in Drp1 deficient cells. Overexpression of cyclin E can induce G2 M cell cycle arrest aneuploidy and genomic instability Bartkova et al. 2005 Keck et al. 2007 Spruck et al. 1999 . To determine whether cyclin E is required for the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy observed in Drp1 deficient MDA MB 231 cells we disrupted cyclin E using siRNA . The concurrent knockdown of cyclin E and Drp1 did not induce a G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy as compared when Drp1 alone was disrupted suggesting that the cell cycle defects observed in Drp1 deficient cells are cyclin E dependent.

Dysregulated cyclin E expression and decreased cyclin B cdc2 kinase activity have been previously associated with DNA damage response and G2 M cell cycle checkpoint activation Bartkova et al. 2005 Kastan and Bartek 2004 . We therefore examined the activities of ATM Chk1 and Chk2 three kinases that are integral to the DNA damage response and activation of cell cycle checkpoint. In control and Drp1 deficient MDA MB 231 cells we observed that the activities of ATM Chk1 and Chk2 kinases as indicated by the levels of their phosphorylation were increased in Drp1 deficient cells compared to control cells . ATM phosphorylates Chk2 and activates G2 M cell cycle checkpoint through inhibiting cdc2 kinase activity. We observed that ATM knockdown impeded the phosphorylation of Chk2 and abrogated the G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy in Drp1 deficient cells E suggesting ATM Chk2 mediated signaling is required for the cell cycle defects in cells that lack mitochondrial fission.

ATR kinase dependent phosphorylation and activation of Chk1 are central to the signal transduction axis activated by replication stress Toledo et al. 2008 . The phosphorylation of Chk1 as well as the aberrant expression of cyclin E at G2 phase observed in Drp1 deficient cells suggested that replication stress is induced by the mitochondrial hyperfusion. ATR is essential for the stability of stalled DNA replication forks Toledo et al. 2008 . As such ATR disruption induces replication stress Murga et al. 2009 and causes DNA double strand breaks DSBs to be generated at sites of stalled replication forks. We observed increased Chk2 phosphorylation and G2 M cell cycle arrest in ATR deficient MDA MB 231 cells and as such ATR deficiency phenocopies Drp1 deficiency in this replication stress mediated cell cycle arrest E . In order to test the hypothesis that ATR deficiency would further increase the replication stress in Drp1 deficient cells we knocked down both proteins in MDA MB 231 cells. Significantly the knockdown of both Drp1 and ATR dramatically increased the levels of H2AX a marker of DNA damage the cleavage of caspase 3 and the number of Annexin V positive cells that both are associated with apoptosis F . Thus ATR is essential in preventing the replication stress associated DNA damage and hence the survival of Drp1 deficient cells.

The replication stress mediated genome instability and cell cycle defects identified in this study revealed a novel mechanism underlying Drp1 deficiency related cellular dysfunction. These cell cycle defects were not a result of loss of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and ATP production but required the hyperfused state of mitochondrial morphology as Opa1 knockdown was able to abrogate these effects. Thus we have separated a function for Drp1 in genome stability from its potential role in mitochondrial energy metabolism. We have identified that dysregulation of cyclin E expression in G2 phase is a direct consequence of Drp1 deficiency causing replication stress and a subsequent DNA damage response that is associated with activation of ATM kinase dependent delay of mitotic entry. Preventing ATR mediated DNA repair signaling in response to replication stress in Drp1 deficient cells enhances DNA damage and cell death . Together these data indicate that the cycles of mitochondrial fission and fusion are integrated with the cell cycle apparatus that are essential for genome stability.

Mitochondria form a highly interconnected network at the G1 S border and the disassembly of this hyperfused network occurs when the GUS transition process is completed Mitra et al. 2009 . This phenomenon suggests that mitochondrial fission which is responsible for the disassembly of the hyperfused mitochondrial network may play a significant role for the progression of following stages of the cell cycle after G1 S transition. In support of this idea our data revealed that persistent mitochondrial hyperfusion due to loss of fission protein Drp1 is associated with aberrant accumulation of cyclin E in G2 phase when mitochondrial network was not able to be dissembled in this phase following G1 S transition. Cyclin E promotes cell cycle entry into S phase and is related with DNA replication associated functions Ekholm and Reed 2000 . Cyclin E overexpression impacts DNA replication and leads to replication stress Toledo et al. 2011 . We observed a reduced rate of DNA replication shown by the decrease of BrdU positive S phase cell in Drp1 deficient cells supplementary material FIG. SA which may reflect either a reduced rate of replication or the activation of a G1 S or intra S phase cell cycle checkpoint. These data are consistent with previous reports that described a similar reduction in BrdU incorporation Mitra et al. 2009 Parone et al. 2008 . However the underlying mechanism is not dependent on the depletion of mitochondrial energy as suggested in these reports that activates metabolic checkpoint as we were not able to phenocopy Drp1 deficiency induced cell cycle defects by pharmacological inhibition of mitochondrial energy metabolism . Rather the reduction in the number of BrdU positive S phase cells in Drp1 deficient cells reflects replication stress that might be caused by either the accumulation of stalled replication forks inefficient firing of replication origin Liberal et al. 2011 and or defects in pre replication complex preRC assembly Ekholm Reed et al. 2004 phenotypes that have all been associated with cyclin E overexpression. Such cyclin E mediated replication stress induces DNA damage and triggers the cell cycle checkpoint in G2 phase Bartkova et al. 2005 . Further the accumulation of cyclin E is able to induce centrosome overduplication and chromosome instability Nakayama et al. 2000 Rajagopalan et al. 2004 Spruck et al. 1999 . Our results showing an increased number of centrosomes and chromosome instability in Drp1 deficient cells are consistent with these reports . However the mechanism underlying Drp1 deficiency mediated alterations in mitochondrial dynamics and cyclin E dysregulation is unknown.

Our results revealed that as a consequence of replication stress in Drp1 deficient cells ATR Chk1 and ATM Chk2 DNA damage signaling cascades are activated . A major cellular defense against DNA damage and control of cell cycle transition and cell death is a signaling network known as the DNA damage response DDR that is largely regulated by the ataxia telangiectasia mutated ATM and ATM and Rad3 related ATR . Cyclin E dysregulation induced abnormalities in DNA replication are known inducers of the ATR Chk1 cascade Kastan and Bartek 2004 . ATR kinase activity is increased by single stranded DNA ssDNA . ssDNA accumulates at stalled replication forks that may arise as a consequence of replication stress Cimprich and Cortez 2008 . Persistent replication stress can lead to the generation of DNA DSBs when stalled replication forks are subject to nucleolytic attack. ATM kinase activity is then increased by DNA DSBs and the subsequent G2 M cell cycle checkpoint is induced. It is noteworthy that knockdown of ATM prevented both G2 M arrest and aneuploidy in Drp1 deficient cells indicating that these cell cycle defects are dependent on ATM mediated DNA damage signaling. ATM and ATR share many of the numerous substrates that promote cell cycle arrest and DNA repair. However one of the best established roles of ATR that is not shared by ATM is preventing the collapse of stalled replication forks in generating DSBs Cimprich and Cortez 2008 . Thus ATR should attenuate DSBs and subsequent ATM kinase activity under conditions that induce replication stress. Our results showed that ATR kinase inhibition by knockdown of ATR in Drp1 deficient cells enhanced phosphorylation of H2AX and apoptosis. This increase in DNA damage and cell death is considered as the consequence of Drp1 deficiency related replication stress under the condition of in the absence of ATR. This finding is reminiscent of the increased DNA damage and cell death when cells overexpressing cyclin E were treated with an ATR kinase inhibitor Toledo et al. 2011 . Since ATR activity is restricted to S and G2 phase Toledo et al. 2011 these data further suggest that the direct impact of Drp1 disruption occurs in these phases. Moreover centrosome overduplication requires functional G2 M checkpoint Inanc et al. 2010 and ATM is also involved in initiating the signaling that regulates centrosome reduplication upon DNA damage Fukasawa 2007 .

Mitochondrial fission is required for inheritance and partitioning of mitochondria during cell division Westermann 2010 . Inhibiting Drp1 mediated mitochondrial fission has been reported to cause accumulation of mutant mtDNA Malena et al. 2009 . Our results provided the first evidence that mitochondrial dynamics are involved in initiating mitochondria to nucleus retrograde signaling in order to ensure proper mitochondrial inheritance by enforcing cell cycle delay upon detection of abnormal mitochondrial morphology. One of the important roles of mitochondrial hyperfusion at G1 S border is postulated to allow homogenization of mitochondrial matrix and mtDNA. After G1 S transition is completed mitochondrial fission has to take place during S G2 and M phase to ensure daughter cells inherit even and healthy mitochondria. When mitochondrial fission is impaired the activation of G2 M cell cycle checkpoint thus allows more time for cells to fragment their mitochondria in preventing unequal segregation of mitochondria and mtDNA.

From a broader perspective the genomic instability that we have identified in this study as a result of Drp1 deficiency may help explain why disruption of Drp1 induces lethality Ishihara et al. 2009 Labrousse et al. 1999 Waterham et al. 2007 and cellular senescence Yoon et al. 2006 . Since replication stress has been observed in human precancerous lesions Gorgoulis et al. 2005 alterations in mitochondrial dynamics may also play a significant role in cancer etiology. Finally our data support a novel anti cancer strategy wherein concurrent targeting of the mitochondrial dynamics protein and the DNA repair machinery involved in the repair of replication stress induced DNA damage might provide more efficient cancer cell killing.

The effect of Drp1 inhibition on the cell cycle was tested. Cells were transfected with control or Drp1 siRNA for 72 and 96 hours and then were stained with P1 and their DNA contents measured by flow cytometry. The percentage of cells in G2 M stage and the percentage of cells containing DNA content 4N which indicates aneuploidy were quantified. Analogous studies were performed using instead of siRNA the Drp1 inhibitor mdivi 1 at a concentration of 50 M for 24 and 48 hours. The results of siRNA and mdivi 1 inhibition respectively are shown in which show that inhibition of Drp1 by these agents induces G2 M cell cycle arrest and aneuploidy.

The effect of Drp1 inhibition of chromosome stability was then evaluated. MDA MB 231 cells that have been engineered to stably express a mitochondrial marker protein pAcGFP 1 mito were treated with mdivi 1 for 7 hours. Mitotic cells were selected for examining the morphology of their chromosomes and mitotic spindles. Chromosomes were visualized by DAPI and mitotic spindles were visualized by staining cells with Alex Fluor 555 conjugated anti tubulin antibody. The results are shown in two representative mitotic figures are shown.

To test the effect of Drp1 inhibition on tumor cells MDA MB 231 cells were plated in black 96 well plates and treated with various concentrations of mdivi 1. Cell numbers were measured by CyQUANT assay every day. As shown if continuous exposure to mdivi 1 alone inhibited the growth of MDA MB 231 breast cancer cells in a dose dependent manner.

To test the effect of Drp 1 inhibition on the effectiveness of cisplatin in a first series of experiments MDA MB 231 cells were transfected with control or Drp1 siRNA and 48 hours later were then treated with 40 M of cisplatin for a 24 hour period. The effect of different concentrations of cisplatin on the Drp1 knockdown cells is shown in where the subG1 portion in the cell cycle profile indicates cytotoxicity. In a second series of experiments a LIVE DEAD Viability Cytotoxicity kit Invitrogen was used to evaluate the effect of inhibition of Drp1 by mdivi 1 on cisplatin cytotoxicity. In this test the percentage of lice and dead cells are determined simultaneously with two probes calcein AM and ethidium homodimer EthD 1 . The nonfluorescent cell permeant calcein AM is converted to the intensely green fluorescent calcein by ubiquitous intracellular esterase only present in live cells. EthD 1 is excluded by the intact plasma membrane of live cells but is able to enter cells with damaged membranes and undergo a 40 fold enhancement of red fluorescence upon binding to nucleic acids. MDA MB 231 cells were treated with various concentrations of cisplatin in the presence of DMSO or 50 mdivi 1 for 12 hours. Cells were then trypsinized and suspended in HBSS containing 1 BSA. Calcein AM and EthD 1 were added to the cell suspension at final concentrations of 0.1 M and 8 M respectively Fluorescence intensity was analyzed on a CyAn ADP Analyzer Beckman Coulter Brea Calif. and the results were analyzed using Summit software. The live cell population that was positively stained with calcein was detected in the bottom right region and indicated with an arrow. The dead cell population that is positively stained with EthD 1 was detected in the upper left region. The results are shown in . In a third set of experiments MDA MB 231 cells were treated with 40 M of cisplatin alone 50 M of mdivi 1 alone or a combination of 40 M of cisplatin and 50 M of mdivi 1 for various time points. The activation of caspase 2 caspase 9 and caspase 3 were then detected by Western Blot. The results are shown in .

To explore this effect further MDA MB 231 cells were treated with DMSO as a vehicle control 50 M of cisplatin 50 M of mdivi 1 or 50 M of cisplatin plus 50 M of mdivi 1 for 2 hours. The cells were then washed with growth media and plated in black 96 well plates. Survivals were measured by CyQUANT assay. Data represent mean SD n 4 wells. The results as shown in show that short time exposure 2 h to mdivi 1 in combination with cisplatin had a synergistic effect in decreasing the survival of MDA MB 231 breast cancer cells. The action of mdivi 1 alone in such exposure condition was found to be reversible.

To evaluate whether the synergistic effects of Drp1 inhibition and cisplatin could be extended to other types of cancer cells breast cancer cells MDA MB 231 non small cell lung carcinoma cells H1299 and glioblastoma cells LN428 were treated with various combinations of cisplatin and mdivi 1 at indicated concentrations. After continuous exposure for 20 hours cell death was determined by measuring the activity of caspase 3 7. The luminescence value that indicates the activity of caspase 3 7 for each combination was plotted on a 3D bar chart using SigmaPlot. As shown in synergistic cell killing was observed between mdivi 1 and cisplatin in various types of cancer cells. Single compound exposure was found to have minimal effect in inducing cell death in these cells.

Experiments were performed to test the effect of the carrier compounds HSA and cyclodextrin on the solubility of mdivi 1.

In a first set of experiments Mdivi 1 dissolved in DMSO was used as stock solution. HSA bound mdivi 1 was prepared by diluting 50 mM stocks in DMSO with 15 HSA in 0.85 sodium chloride Sigma such that the final concentration of mdivi 1 is 1 mM and the final molar ratio of mdivi 1 to HSA is 1 2.25. HSA bound cisplatin was prepared by combining equal volume of 2 mM cisplatin in 0.85 sodium chloride with 30 HSA in 0.85 sodium chloride molar ratio of cisplatin to HSA is 1 2.25 and followed by incubation in the dark at 37 degree for overnight 16 20 h . MDA MB 231 cells were treated with HSA bound mdivi 1 and or HSA bound cisplatin continuously for 48 h and cell death was determined by western blot using antibody against activated caspase 3.

The results of these experiments indicate that human serum albumin can be used as an effective vehicle to improve the solubility of mdivi 1 for intravenous injection purpose and also enhances the tumor specificity of mdivi 1. As shown in human serum albumin HSA bound mdivi 1 enhanced the toxicity of HSA bound cisplatin. Enhanced solubility of mdivi 1 by HSA is possibly mediated through the hydrophobic binding activity of HSA. HSA is also taken up by tumor cells at increased levels in comparison to normal cells therefore binding of mdivi 1 with HSA is expected to enhance the tumor specific targeting. In addition albumin is a major serum protein that cisplatin binds after intravenous infusion however albumin bound cisplatin is not as effective as free cisplatin. We have found that HSA bound mdivi 1 is not only able to enhance the activity of free cisplatin it also enhances the activity of HSA bound cisplatin.

In a second set of experiments Mdivi 1 dissolved in DMSO was used as stock solution. Mdivi 1 of 50 mM stocks in DMSO was diluted with 40 2 Hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin PBS. The final concentration of this formulation of mdivi 1 is 1 mM. MDA MB 231 cells were treated with HP CD cisplatin mdivi 1 alone or in combination in the presence of HP CD as indicated above. After continuous exposure for 20 h cell death was determined by measuring the activity of caspase 3 7. As shown in the results of these experiments indicate that 2 Hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin HP CD can be used to improve the solubility of mdivi 1 and maintain the synergistic cell killing effect with the combination of mdivi 1 and cisplatin. Data represent mean SD. n 4 wells.

Toledo L. I. M. Murga R. Zur R. Soria A. Rodriguez S. Martinez J. Oyarzabal J. Pastor J. R. Bischoff and O. Fernandez Capetillo. 2011. A cell based screen identifies ATR inhibitors with synthetic lethal properties for cancer associated mutations. Nat Struct Mol Biol. 18 721 727.

Various publications are cited herein the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties herein. Various nucleic acid and amino acid sequence accession numbers are cited herein and the complete sequences referenced by those accession numbers are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties herein.

