---

title: Mount assembly
abstract: A mounting assembly is configured for mounting electronics in a ceiling or wall without requiring access to interior portions of the ceiling or wall. The mounting assembly comprises a collar, at least two arms and at least two threaded screws. The collar fits around and attaches to the electronics housing. The at least two arms are each independently compressed to engage the ceiling and are coupled to the collar to support the collar in the ceiling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09407074&OS=09407074&RS=09407074
owner: CRESTON ELECTRONICS, INC.
number: 09407074
owner_city: Rockleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120601
---
The present invention relates to mounting hardware and more specifically hardware for mounting devices flush to a surface.

Various electronic devices are commonly distributed throughout a building. Most commonly lights are mounted in ceilings and walls of most buildings. Additionally various sensors to measure occupancy or environmental conditions. Speakers and other AV equipment may be mounted as well. As homes and offices become increasingly smarter the number and type of electronics mounted in walls and ceilings is expected to increase as well.

A mount assembly is required to support the load of the electronics in the wall. Preferably this mount must also provide access for operation or modification. Two common mounting methods include surface mounting and internal mounting. Surface mounting is a method in which the electronics are mounted to the exterior surface of the ceiling and internal mounting is a method in which the electronic device is inserted into the ceiling. There are several deficiencies associated with both methods.

Surface mounts while generally easy to install are aesthetically unappealing for most applications. Because the electronics are mounted on the outside of the wall they leave a non uniform surface on the ceiling.

Internal mounts also known as high hat mounts while more aesthetically pleasing are generally not suitable to support heavy electronic devices. Additionally these mounts are typically difficult to install and often require additional mounting hardware such as screws and brackets. Additionally many mounts are not adaptable to ceilings of different width or ceilings with non uniform width.

There is now a need for improved mounting hardware for internally mounting electronics that provides enough mechanical resistance to support more robust electronics and is easy to install and adaptable to differing ceiling configurations.

It is to be understood that both the general and detailed descriptions that follow are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention.

Principles of the invention provide systems devices and methods for mounting electronics in a ceiling. For example according to a first aspect the present invention provides a mount assembly comprising a collar dimensioned to fit around and configured for detachably connecting to a housing at least two arms coupled to the housing at a hinge and configured for being compressibly engaged with an inner surface of a planar board and at least two threaded screws. Each arm further comprises a first portion further comprising a threaded insert extending from a top surface of the first portion to a bottom portion of the first portion a second portion meeting the first portion at a hinge and a third portion meeting the second portion at a hinge. The body of each screw configured for extending through a corresponding threaded insert of one of the at least two arms.

According to a second aspect the present invention provides a system for mounting electronics in a wall. The system comprises an electronics housing a collar at least two arms and at least two threaded screws. The collar is dimensioned to fit around the electronics housing and configured for detachably connecting to the electronics housing. The at least two arms are coupled to the collar at a hinge and configured for supporting the collar in the wall by being compressibly engaged with an inner surface of the wall. Each of the at least two arms comprise a first portion further comprising a threaded insert extending from a top surface of the first portion to a bottom portion of the first portion a second portion meeting the first portion at a hinge and a third portion meeting the second portion at a hinge. The body of each screw is configured for extending through a corresponding threaded insert of one of the at least two arms.

According to a third aspect the present invention provides a system for mounting a passive infrared PIR sensor in a ceiling. The system comprises a PIR sensor a cylindrical collar three arms three threaded screws a Fresnel lens and a cap. The PIR sensor comprises a cylindrical housing with a flange extending from the bottom of the housing and a tab disposed in a cutout of an outer peripheral wall of the housing. The flange further comprises three holes extending from a top surface of the flange to a bottom surface of the flange. The cylindrical collar is dimensioned to fit around the sensor housing and comprises three holes axially aligned with the holes of the sensor housing and extending from a top surface of the collar to a bottom surface of the collar a slot for communicating with the tabs of the sensor housing and detachably connecting the sensor housing to the collar and a flange extending from the bottom of the collar comprising a top surface for communicating with an exterior surface of the ceiling and a bottom surface for communicating with a top surface of the electronics housing flange. The three arms are coupled to the collar at a hinge and configured for supporting the collar in the wall by being compressibly engaged with an interior peripheral surface of the opening in the wall. Each of the three arms comprises a first portion further comprising a threaded insert extending from a top surface of the first portion to a bottom portion of the first portion and axially aligned with a corresponding one of the three holes of the collar a second portion meeting the first portion at a hinge and a third portion meeting the second portion at a hinge. The body of each screw is configured for extending through a corresponding threaded insert of one of the three arms and a corresponding one of the three holes of the collar. The cap is configured for supporting the Fresnel lens in space and comprises an annular disc with a ridge and three tabs. Each of the three tabs is configured for communicating with one of the slots formed between each tab and cutout of the electronics housing.

According to a fourth aspect the present invention provides a method for mounting electronics in a planar board comprising the steps of inserting a first threaded screw through a first hole in a collar and a first threaded insert in a first arm coupled to the collar inserting at least a second threaded screw in a second hole in the collar and a second threaded insert in a second arm coupled to the collar detachably connecting a housing to the collar by inserting the housing in the collar inserting a collar in an opening of the planar board engaging an inner surface of the planar board by compressing the first arm to a first desired arm angle by rotating the first threaded screw and engaging an inner surface of the planar board by compressing at least the second arm to a second desired arm angle by rotating the second threaded screw.

The present invention seeks to overcome or at least ameliorate one or more of several problems including but not limited to the need for installers to access both sides of a ceiling to mount electronics.

The components in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale emphasis instead being placed upon clearly illustrating the principles of the present invention. In the drawings like reference numerals designate corresponding parts throughout the several views.

The present invention provides a mount assembly. More particularly the present invention provides a mount assembly accessible from an exterior surface of a ceiling or wall and which requires no access to areas behind the external surface. At least two independently controlled arms support the assembly in the wall or ceiling. Individual components of the mount assembly snap in place for simple hardware free assembly.

Throughout the specification the mount assembly is described in the context of mounting a passive infrared PIR sensor in a ceiling. However the present invention should not be limited to mounting PIR sensors. In another example the mounted electronic device may be a wireless gateway for wireless communication on a network. In yet another example the electronic device may be a speaker. It is contemplated that the mount assembly may mount non electronic devices as well. For example the mount assembly may be employed to mount decorative or functional structures in a wall.

Similarly the mount assembly is not limited to use with a ceiling. The mount may be used to mount a device in any planar board. For example the planar board may be a portion of a ceiling floor wall table top desk top or wooden beam. Additionally the planar board is not limited to a certain material. The planar board may be comprise a panel sheetrock or plaster.

While the mount assembly in the embodiment shown in comprises three arms the present invention should not be limited to three arms. Embodiments comprising two arms and greater than three arms fall within the scope of the invention. As will described below the number of certain elements of the system are dependent on the number of arms of the mount assembly. Accordingly it is contemplated that embodiments of the invention will comprise two of each of these elements or greater than three of each of these elements.

In this embodiment the collar is cylindrical with a uniform annular cross section but the shape of the collar should not be limited to this embodiment. It is contemplated that the cross section may be non uniform or that the inner or outer shape of the cross section of the collar may be a shape other than a circle such as octagonal rectangular star or any other similar shape. For example in an embodiment of the invention in which the housing has a rectangular cross section the inner peripheral surface of the collar may be rectangular while the outer peripheral surface of the collar may be cylindrical. Additionally it should be noted that the collar flange need only be flush with the ceiling when the mount assembly is installed in the ceiling. Depending on the shape of the collar the collar flange does not need to extend perpendicularly from the bottom of the collar . For example in another embodiment the collar may have a non uniform cross section tapering at the top with a collar flange extending at an obtuse angle from the collar .

The collar comprises at a first slot a second slot and a third slot extending from the outer peripheral surface of the collar to an inner peripheral surface of the collar. Each of the at least one slots communicates with a corresponding at least one tab of the electronics housing to attach the electronics housing to the collar . The electronics housing may be detached from the collar by disengaging each tab from each corresponding slot 

Additionally the collar comprises three holes extending axially from a top surface of the collar to the bottom surface of the collar . As described above the minimum number of holes in the collar is dependent on the number of arms of the mount assembly. In this embodiment the collar comprises three holes but should not be limited to the three holes in this embodiment. In other embodiments the collar comprises any number of holes greater than one and corresponding to the number of arms and threaded screws .

Three arms are coupled to the collar each at a hinge and equidistant from the other arms. In this embodiment the mount assembly comprises three arms but the mount assembly should not be limited to three arms. Embodiments with more than three arms and less than three arms are contemplated by the invention. In this embodiment the three arms extend from the indentations in the collar flange . Each arm is composed of a first portion a second portion and a third portion respectively. The first portion and the second portion meet at a hinge and the second portion and third portion meet at a hinge . The first portion of each arm has a threaded insert through the width of the first portion extending from the top surface of the portion to the bottom surface of the portion.

In this embodiment the arms are formed from a single piece of nylon having varying thickness thereby providing rigidity in the first second and third portions and flexibility at the hinge. However the arms may be composed of one or more materials. For example each portion of the arm may be composed of a distinct rigid block the blocks connected by hinges. Additionally in an embodiment of the invention the arms and collar are integrally formed from a single piece of material. In this embodiment the arms may be coupled to the collar flange at an indentation in the collar to ensure proper setback from the radial edge of the collar flange.

In an embodiment of the invention the third portion of each arm further comprises one or more ribs on an outer surface to provide increased mechanical resistance between the arm and the surface of the ceiling.

In an embodiment of the invention the electronics housing further comprises a battery compartment defined by an indentation in the outer peripheral surface and configured for receiving one or more electrical power sources . For example the battery case may receive a Lithium Ion Li ion battery providing 4.2 V DC. The electronics housing further comprises a battery cover for the battery compartment and an electrical connection at the bottom of the indentation extending through the electronics housing to electrically couple the electronic components of the electrical device with the one or more electrical power sources . In other embodiments of the invention the electronics housing comprises a hole defined by the outer peripheral surface configured for receiving an electrical conductor for receiving electrical power.

In embodiments of the invention the electronic device may communicate wired or wirelessly with external devices. For example in an embodiment of the invention the electronic device may comprise an RF transceiver for bi directional communication with an external device. In another embodiment of the invention the electronic device may be configured for wired communication with an external device such as via one or more electrical conductors configured for communication received through the opening in the housing.

Each of the three threaded screws extends through a corresponding hole in the collar and a corresponding threaded insert in the first portion of the arm . The head of each threaded screw communicates with the bottom surface of the collar flange and protrudes through a corresponding hole of the electronics housing flange providing access to the threaded screw for installers. The thread on the screw and the thread in the threaded insert are configured such that the threaded screw may be screwed into the threaded insert 

In this embodiment the screws are threaded screws. However the screws should not be limited to threaded screws. The mount assembly may comprises any screw that is configured for securing the insert to the screw. For example in an embodiment of the invention the mount assembly may comprise a ratcheting screw comprising ridges configured for communicating with ridges in a corresponding insert. The ridges on the screw and in the insert are dimensioned to allow the screw to be inserted in one direction through the insert but impede the screw from being pulled through the insert in the opposite direction.

In this illustrative embodiment the electronics housing houses a passive infrared PIR sensor . The system further comprises a Fresnel lens and a cap . The Fresnel lens is configured to be held in space by the cap and may be protruding through the bottom surface of the cap . In an embodiment of the invention the PIR lens is contained in the electronics housing. In this embodiment the system further comprises a lens filter. The lens filter may be a flat disc supported in space by the cap .

In an embodiment of the invention with the cap the tabs on the cap snaps into the corresponding slots in the collar . A top surface of the cap communicates with the bottom surface of the housing flange . The extended rim communicates with the exterior surface of the wall. The cap offers an aesthetically pleasing surface and may be easily removed for painting or other adjustments.

In step at least a second threaded screw is inserted through a second hole in the collar and threaded insert in a second arm coupled to the collar . In this embodiment the method comprises the steps of engaging two arms to the mounting surface. However the invention should not be limited to two arms. In a further embodiment of the invention the method comprises the step of aligning the electronic housing with collar .

In step the electronics housing is detachably connected to the collar by inserting the electronics housing in the collar .

In step the first arm is compressed to a first desired arm angle by rotating the first threaded screw thereby engaging the opening of the wall.

In step at least a second arm is compressed to a second desired arm angle by rotating the second threaded screw thereby engaging the opening of the wall. As noted above in this embodiment the method comprises steps for compressing at least two arms. The method should not be limited to two arms. In a further embodiment of the invention the method comprises a step for compressing a third arm to a third desired arm angle by rotating a third threaded screw thereby engaging the opening of the wall.

In a further embodiment of the invention the method further comprises the steps of inserting a Fresnel lens in a cap step and detachably connecting the cap to the electronics housing by inserting the cap into the electronics housing step .

In another embodiment of the invention the method further comprises the step of aligning the electronic housing with the collar by aligning one or more holes in a flange of the electronics housing with one or more holes in the collar step .

To solve the aforementioned problems the present invention is a unique device in which a mounting assembly utilizes at least two independently controlled arms to support an electronic device in a ceiling.

Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention. For example the body of the mount housing and collar opening may be a shape other than cylindrical such as octagonal or rectangular.

