---

title: Method and apparatus for activating an emergency beacon signal
abstract: A portable communication device comprises a radio frequency signal transceiver configured to receive an instruction signal; and control electronics configured to detect that the instruction signal has been received; and cause the portable communication device to transmit a beacon signal responsive to the instruction signal being detected by the control electronics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591466&OS=09591466&RS=09591466
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09591466
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120706
---
The embodiments disclosed herein relate generally to activating a beacon signal and specifically to various methods and apparatus for activating an emergency beacon signal from a portable communication device.

When a natural or man made catastrophe occurs such as an earthquake or explosion a critical task for rescue teams is to find victims affected by the catastrophe within the shortest period of time as possible e.g. the first 24 hours which is the so called golden day during which the majority of survivors from the catastrophe can usually be saved. Very often after such a catastrophe victims are buried or trapped under rubble and debris and cannot be found. Rescue teams have traditionally relied on the use of dogs to locate such victims. Increasingly rescue teams also make use of technology such as highly sensitive listening devices and ground probing radar to help locate victims. However even with this technology it remains very difficult to locate victims across an entire area affected by a catastrophe particularly within 24 hours of the catastrophe occurring.

It is therefore desirable to more easily identify a location of victims buried under rubble and debris after a catastrophic event.

This disclosure describes various ways in which a portable communication device may send a beacon signal responsive to an instruction to transmit a beacon signal. The beacon signal may be used to locate the portable communication device in a localized area such as in the area of a catastrophe. Various examples in this description are best described in relation to emergency response efforts. It should be understood that references to emergency beacon signal and emergency response are used as non limited examples in this disclosure. Other non catastrophic scenarios may be conceived which make use of the beacon signal for locating a portable communication device in a localized geographic area.

In a first aspect there is provided a portable communication device. The portable communication devices comprises a radio frequency signal transceiver configured to receive an instruction signal and control electronics configured to detect that the instruction signal has been received and cause the portable communication device to transmit a beacon signal responsive to the instruction signal being detected by the control electronics. One or more portable communication devices within a given geographical area e.g. an area affected by a catastrophe can be instructed to transmit a beacon signal.

A portable communication device may be any electronic device which can be readily carried by a user with or on their person and which provides communication e.g. voice data or other electronic form for its user to from or between other devices. The communication may be wireless for example carried by radio frequency signals transmitted from and received by the device.

The control electronics may be further configured to switch the portable communication device between a first mode of operation and a second mode of operation wherein in the second mode of operation the control electronics controls the radio frequency signal transceiver to transmit the beacon signal.

In the first mode of operation the control electronics may control the radio frequency signal transceiver to receive and transmit radio frequency signals within a first frequency range associated with a mobile communications network. If no instruction signal is received the portable communication is used for transmitting and receiving voice signals and data or voice signals only or data only over the mobile communications network. As a result the portable electronic device may be switched in the second mode of operation without any user interaction with the portable electronic device being required.

The radio frequency signal transceiver may be configured to transmit the beacon signal within a second frequency range which is different to the first frequency range. The beacon signal can therefore be readily distinguished from other voice signals and data being transmitted across the network. Furthermore the second frequency range may be associated with at least one frequency reserved for emergency communications to allow emergency rescue teams to readily identify the beacon as an emergency beacon.

The radio frequency signal transceiver may be configured to transmit the beacon signal within a second frequency range wherein the second frequency range overlaps at least a part of the first frequency range. Receivers capable of detecting or receiving communications from the portable communication device in the first mode can therefore also detect and receive the beacon signal.

In the second mode of operation the control electronics may be configured to control the radio frequency signal transceiver to cease to receive and transmit the radio frequency signals of the first mode of operation and transmit only the beacon signal or reduce the transmission capability such as the power of transmission of the voice and data signals . Battery power is therefore conserved for transmitting the beacon signal only. Furthermore in an emergency situation ceasing the transmission and receipt of data other than emergency beacons prevents overloading of the communications network which may be necessary following a catastrophic event.

When operating in the second mode of operation the radio frequency signal transceiver may be configured to repeatedly transmit the beacon signal at predetermined time intervals for example without any user interaction with the portable electronic device being required.

When operating in the second mode of operation the radio frequency signal transceiver may be configured to repeatedly transmit the beacon signal via a plurality of predetermined frequencies of the second frequency range.

The control electronics may be configured to switch the portable communication device from the first mode of operation to the second mode of operation in response to receiving a first instruction signal via the radio frequency signal transceiver from a remote location.

The control electronics may be configured to prompt for user input in response to the first instruction signal. The portable communication device may be configured to switch from the first mode of operation to the second mode of operation in the absence of a response to the prompt for user input within a predetermined time interval. Users not affected by the emergency situation can therefore prevent their portable communication devices from transmitting a beacon signal. Accordingly rescue efforts can be focused on users in need of assistance.

The control electronics may be further configured to provide a user input for receiving a user instruction to manually switch between the first mode of operation and the second mode of operation in response to the user instruction. Thus users outside a specified area but affected by an emergency situation or whose portable communication devices did not correctly receive the instruction signal can manually cause their portable communication devices to emit a beacon signal.

The portable communication device may be configured to switch back from the second mode of operation to the first mode of operation in response to a second instruction signal. In this case one or both of the first instruction signal and the second instruction signal are received from a mobile communications network apparatus. In this manner if an area is no longer undergoing an emergency situation portable communications in this area can be controlled to cease transmitting an emergency beacon. For example it is likely that some sub areas within an area across which the emergency or first instruction signal is broadcast will be unaffected by the emergency situation. In this case a mobile network apparatus can be used to cause devices in an area local to the network apparatus to cease transmitting a beacon signal. Accordingly users truly in need of assistance can more readily be identified.

The mobile communications network apparatus may be one of a wireless base station a portable communications apparatus or a short message service SMS message centre.

The second instruction signal may comprise a short message service SMS message received via a mobile communications network apparatus.

One or both of the first instruction signal and the second instruction signal may be a cell broadcast signal which is broadcast to all portable communication devices or a predefined sub group of all portable communication devices currently in communication with the mobile communications network apparatus for example within a predefined area such as mobile cell or subsection of the predefine area.

In one embodiment the beacon signal may be a unidirectional signal transmitted from an antenna connected to the radio frequency signal transceiver. Such a unidirectional signal may be readily used to locate the location of the portable communication device once the signal has been detected. In another embodiment which may be implemented separately or in conjunction with the preceding embodiment the beacon signal may be completely un modulated. In another embodiment which may be implemented separately or in conjunction with the preceding two embodiments the beacon signal may contain no data or only very limited data. In another embodiment which may be implemented separately or in conjunction with the preceding three embodiments the beacon signal may be generated by the radio frequency transceiver at a fixed frequency or within a fixed frequency range. In another embodiment which may be implemented separately or in conjunction with the preceding three embodiments the beacon signal may be multi directional comprising a predetermined number of discrete unidirectional signals transmitted for example in different directions from the antenna and each of which can be detected independently or together and thereby used to determine the location of the portable electronic device. Alternatively the beacon signal may be completely omnidirectional.

In another embodiment which may be implemented separately or in conjunction with the embodiments of the preceding paragraph the beacon signal may be a signal transmitted at an radio frequency which is not at the frequency or in the range of frequencies used for conventional voice and data communications by the portable communications device e.g. not at the frequency or in the range of frequencies used for conventional cellular based communications. For example the range of frequencies may be a range defined as being less than 3 GHz 2.5 GHz 2 GHz 1.5 GHz 1.2 GHz 1 GHz 800 MHz 500 MHz 200 MHz 100 MHz 10 MHz 1 MHz 900 kHz 800 kHz 700 kHz 600 kHz 500 kHz 400 kHz 300 kHz 200 kHz 100 kHz 50 kHz 10 kHz or 1 kHz for example in the range 1 kHz to 100 MHz 2 kHz to 1 MHz 10 kHz to 800 kHz 100 kHz to 600 kHz or 200 kHz to 500 kHz.

In another embodiment which may be implemented separately or in conjunction with any one of the embodiments of the preceding two paragraphs the beacon signal may comprise location data pertaining to the location of the portable communication device wherein the location data is determined by the portable communication device. The location data may be determined by the portable communication device after receipt of the instruction signal. Alternatively the location data may comprise data stored in the portable communication device that indicates a last determined location of the portable communication device. For example the location of the portable communication may be determined at regular intervals when in the first mode of operation and the last known location used even when switched into the second mode of operation. Moreover the location data may further comprise a timestamp associated with the last location data stored in the portable communication device.

The beacon signal may be a low power radio frequency signal. A low power frequency signal may be a signal defined as a signal having a short range. It may be a signal which is of an emitted strength which does not cause harmful interference to other radio equipment. It may be a signal emitted from a transmitter or the transceiver of the portable communications device with an effective radiated power ERP in the range 5 to 500 mW 10 to 300 mW 15 to 200 mW or 25 to 100 mW.

The control electronics may be configured to cause a power level or modulation scheme of the beacon signal to be adapted in response to an amount of remaining battery power available to the portable communication device. The portable communication device may comprise a battery for powering the control electronics and radio frequency transceiver and the control electronics may be configured to determine an indication of remaining battery energy and modify the transmission power of the beacon signal in accordance with the determined indication or modify the modulation scheme of the beacon signal in accordance with the determined indication or both. The modulation scheme may be changed so as to reduce the power requirements of the radio frequency transceiver in transmitting the beacon signal. In this manner battery life of the portable communication device is used as efficiently as possible to maximize the duration for which a beacon signal can be transmitted.

The beacon signal may include identification information associated with the portable communication device e.g. location information determined by a location determination means of the portable electronic device such as global positioning system GPS receiver or other satellite signal based location determination receiver or cellular based location determination means.

When operating in the second mode the portable communication device may transmit the beacon signal to an emergency response center. In this manner emergency rescue teams can use the beacon signal to determine one or more possible locations of the portable communication device.

The radio frequency signals transmitted within the first frequency range under the first mode of operation may comprise voice and or data signals. For example the radio frequency signals transmitted within the first frequency range may be associated with a mobile telecommunications network and may utilize standards compliant radio frequency transmissions. For example the range of frequencies may be a range defined as being less than 3 GHz 2.5 GHz 2 GHz 1.5 GHz 1.2 GHz 1 GHz 800 MHz 500 MHz 200 MHz 100 MHz 10 MHz 1 MHz 900 kHz 800 kHz 700 kHz 600 kHz 500 kHz 400 kHz 300 kHz 200 kHz 100 kHz 50 kHz 10 kHz or 1 kHz for example in the range 1 kHz to 100 MHz 2 kHz to 1 MHz 10 kHz to 800 kHz 100 kHz to 600 kHz or 200 kHz to 500 kHz.

The control electronics may be configured to transmit an acknowledgement signal in response to detecting that the instruction signal has been received.

In a second aspect a method of controlling a portable communication device is provided. The method comprises receiving an instruction signal detecting that the instruction signal has been received and causing the portable communication device to transmit a beacon signal responsive to detection of the instruction signal.

The method may further comprise operating the portable communication device in a first mode in which a radio frequency signal transceiver of the portable communication device is configured to receive and transmit data within a first frequency range wherein receiving the instruction signal comprises receiving the instruction signal when operating the portable communication device in the first mode.

In response to the first instruction signal the method may further comprise switching the portable communication device to a second mode of operation wherein in the second mode of operation the radio frequency signal transceiver operates under control of control electronics to transmit the beacon signal.

In the first mode of operation the radio frequency signal transceiver may operate under control of the control electronics to receive and transmit radio frequency signals within a first frequency range associated with a mobile communications network. The radio frequency signal transceiver may transmit the beacon signal within a second frequency range which is different to the first frequency range. The second frequency range may be associated with at least one frequency reserved for emergency communications. For example the range of frequencies may be a range defined as being less than 3 GHz 2.5 GHz 2 GHz 1.5 GHz 1.2 GHz 1 GHz 800 MHz 500 MHz 200 MHz 100 MHz 10 MHz 1 MHz 900 kHz 800 kHz 700 kHz 600 kHz 500 kHz 400 kHz 300 kHz 200 kHz 100 kHz 50 kHz 10 kHz or 1 kHz for example in the range 1 kHz to 100 MHz 2 kHz to 1 MHz 10 kHz to 800 kHz 100 kHz to 600 kHz or 200 kHz to 500 kHz.

The radio frequency signal transceiver may transmit the beacon signal within a second frequency range wherein the second frequency range overlaps at least a part of the first frequency range. Alternatively the second frequency range may be an unlicensed frequency range dedicated for emergency beacon signal transmissions and reserved for this purpose by one or more governmental entities. For example the range of frequencies may be a range defined as being less than 3 GHz 2.5 GHz 2 GHz 1.5 GHz 1.2 GHz 1 GHz 800 MHz 500 MHz 200 MHz 100 MHz 10 MHz 1 MHz 900 kHz 800 kHz 700 kHz 600 kHz 500 kHz 400 kHz 300 kHz 200 kHz 100 kHz 50 kHz 10 kHz or 1 kHz for example in the range 1 kHz to 100 MHz 2 kHz to 1 MHz 10 kHz to 800 kHz 100 kHz to 600 kHz or 200 kHz to 500 kHz.

The portable communication device may be a personal communications device mobile phone smartphone personal digital assistant tablet device or laptop. The portable communications device may comply with and transmit radio frequency signals for voice communications data communications or both receive radio frequency signals for voice communications data communications or both or both via its radio frequency transceiver according to one or more of the mobile communications network technologies for example those technologies having associated standardised frequency bands defined for one or more of Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS 3rd Generation Mobile Telecommunications 3G Long Term Evolution LTE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS .

In the second mode of operation the radio frequency signal transceiver may operate under control of the control electronics to cease to receive and transmit the radio frequency signals of the first mode of operation.

When operating in the second mode of operation the beacon signal at predetermined time intervals may be repeatedly transmitted.

When operating in the second mode of operation the radio frequency signal transceiver may operate under the control of the control electronics to repeatedly transmit the beacon signal via a plurality of predetermined frequencies of the second frequency range.

The method may comprise switching the portable communication device from the first mode of operation to the second mode of operation in response to receiving a first instruction signal via the radio frequency signal transceiver from a remote location.

The control electronics may prompt for user input in response to the first instruction signal. The control electronics may further provide a user input for receiving a user instruction to manually switch between the first mode of operation and the second mode of operation in response to the user instruction.

The portable communication device may switch from the first mode of operation to the second mode of operation in the absence of a response to the prompt for user input within a predetermined time interval. The portable communication device may also switch from the second mode of operation to the first mode of operation in response to a second instruction signal.

One or both of the first instruction signal and the second instruction signal may be received from a mobile communications network apparatus. The mobile communications network apparatus may be one of a wireless base station a portable communications apparatus or a short message service SMS message centre.

The beacon signal may be received by a beacon signal receiver device which comprises a receiver configured to receive the beacon signal and determine or assist a user in determining the location of the portable communication device for example by indicating a direction on a display or via other indicator means of the location from where the beacon signal has been transmitted or by indicating the determined location on a display or via other indicator means of the location of the portable communication device e.g. on a map display or with alphanumeric or graphical means displayed on the display.

The second instruction signal may comprise a short message service SMS message received via a mobile communications network apparatus.

One or both of the first instruction signal and the second instruction signal may be a cell broadcast signal which is broadcast to all portable communication devices or a predefined sub group of all portable communication devices currently in communication with the mobile communications network apparatus.

The method may further comprise determining location data pertaining to a location of the portable communication device and including the determined location in the beacon signal.

Determining location data pertaining to a location of the portable communication device may comprise retrieving data indicating a last determined location of the portable communication device and including the retrieved data in the beacon signal.

Including the retrieved data in the beacon signal may comprise including a timestamp associated with the retrieved data indicating the last determined location in the beacon signal.

The beacon signal may be a low power radio frequency signal and the control electronics may cause a power level or modulation scheme of the beacon signal to be adapted in response to an amount of remaining battery power available to the portable communication device.

In one example the portable communication device comprises a battery and the method comprises determining an indication of remaining battery energy and modifies the transmission power of the beacon signal in accordance with the determined indication.

The method may further comprise including identification information associated with the portable communication device in the beacon signal.

When operating in the second mode the portable communication device may transmit the beacon signal to an emergency response center.

The radio frequency signals transmitted within the first frequency range under the first mode of operation may comprise voice and or data signals.

The control electronics may transmit an acknowledgement signal in response to detecting that the instruction signal has been received.

In a third aspect there is provided a method comprising in a mobile communications network apparatus transmitting a first instruction signal via a radio frequency signal transceiver the first instruction signal for instructing at least one portable communication device to transmit a beacon signal on detection of the first instruction signal.

The method may further comprise instructing with the first instruction signal at least one portable communication device to switch from a first mode of operation in which the portable communication devices receive and transmit data within a first frequency range to a second mode of operation in which the portable communication devices transmit a beacon signal using a second frequency range different to the first frequency bandwidth.

The method may further comprise transmitting a second instruction signal to at least one of the plurality of portable communications devices the second instruction signal adapted to cause at least one device to revert to the first mode of operation.

One or both of the first instruction signal and the second instruction signal may comprise a cell broadcast signal.

One or both of the first instruction signal and the second instruction signal may comprise a short message service SMS message.

In a fourth aspect there is provided an apparatus comprising a transmitter configured to broadcast a first instruction signal via a radio frequency signal wherein the first instruction signal is associated with instructing at least one portable communication device to transmit a beacon signal on detection of the first instruction signal.

The first instruction signal may be adapted to signal the plurality of portable communication devices to switch from a first mode of operation in which the portable communication devices are configured to receive and transmit communication data to a second mode of operation in which the portable communication devices transmit the beacon signal.

In a fifth aspect there is provided a wireless base station comprising the above described apparatus and further comprising a receiver wherein the transmitter and receiver together provide a transceiver configured for transmitting and receiving data for cellular wireless services.

The wireless base station may be a microcell wireless base station configured to broadcast to a local area.

In a sixth aspect a beacon signal receiver device comprises a radio frequency receiver configured to receive a beacon signal and determine or assist a user in determining the location of the portable communication device for example by indicating a direction on a display of the beacon signal receiver or via other indicator means of the beacon signal receiver of the location from where the beacon signal has been transmitted or by indicating the determined location on the display or via the other indicator means of the location of the portable communication device e.g. on a map display or with alphanumeric or graphical means displayed on the display.

Reference is made to which illustrates a system utilising a wireless communication network according to an example embodiment. An electronic device of the system communicates with any one of a plurality of base stations of the system over the wireless network which may be a mobile communications network such as a cellular network or a WiFi network. The base station comprises a transmitter and a receiver . The transmitter and the receiver may be included within an integrated transceiver of the base station . The transmitter and receiver may be connected to base station control electronics which is configured to control the sending and receiving voice signals or data or both to and from the electronic device over the wireless network . The base station control electronics can be configured to control the transmitter to transmit an emergency beacon mode instruction signal see below to the electronic device so as to place it in an emergency beacon mode of operation in which the electronic device transmits a beacon signal .

The system may also comprise a beacon signal receiver device which comprises a receiver in communication with signal processing electronics . The receiver of the beacon signal receiver device in conjunction with the signal processing electronics may constitute a beacon signal measuring device e.g. a device which measures at the device s current location characteristics such as any one or more of signal power frequency and modulation type a beacon signal detecting device e.g. a device which detects the presence of the beacon signal at the device s current location a beacon locating device e.g. a device which detects the location from where the beacon signal has been transmitted .

The receiver may be configured to receive the beacon signal . The signal processing electronics may be configured to process the received beacon signal and determine a location of the electronic device or a direction from the receiver device to the electronic device . Output from the signal processing electronics may be data pertaining to the location of the electronic device or data indicative of a direction from the receiver device to the electronic device . Such data can be utilised and displayed on a display. The beacon signal receiver device may be portable so that it can be carried by an emergency worker to locate the portable device and its user.

It will be appreciated that the electronic device may take other forms including any one of the forms listed below. Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in certain example embodiments the electronic device is a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system such as a notebook laptop or desktop system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device. In the context of this disclosure the term mobile means the device is of a size or weight which makes it readily portable by a single individual e.g. of a weight less than 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 or 0.1 kilograms or of a volume less than 15 000 10 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 500 400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 or 5 cubic centimeters. As such the device may be portable in a bag or clothing pocket in a holster or just carried by the user.

The electronic device comprises control electronics including a processor such as a microprocessor which controls the operation of the electronic device .

In certain electronic devices more than one processor may be utilised with each processor in communication with each other and configured to perform operations in parallel so that they together control the overall operation of the electronic device. However for the purposes of this disclosure it will suffice to describe the functionality of the electronic device within the context of a single processor being utilised.

The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as one or more of a display a speaker electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as one or more of a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port an external video output port a near field communications NFC subsystem a short range communication subsystem a clock subsystem a battery interface and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents presentation documents and information word processor documents and information spread sheet documents and information desktop publishing documents and information database files and information image files video files audio files internet web pages and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data may also include program application data such as functions controls and interfaces from an application such as an email application an address book application a calendar application a notepad application a presentation application a word processor application a spread sheet application a desktop publishing application a database application a media application such as a picture viewer a video player or an audio player and a web browser. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The electronic device includes a clock subsystem or module comprising a system clock configured to measure system time. In one example the system clock comprises its own alternate power source. The system clock provides an indicator of a current time value the system time represented as a year month day hour minute second milliseconds value. In other examples the clock subsystem additionally or alternatively provides an indicator of the current time value represented as a count of the number of ticks of known duration since a particular epoch.

The clock subsystem the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem the short range wireless communications subsystem and the battery interface together form a status report subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of the operating status of the device.

The display receives display data generated by the processor such that the display displays certain application data stored as a segment of the data from the memory any of the flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM in a predetermined way on display screen not shown of the display according to the processing performed by the processor .

In some example embodiments of the invention the auxiliary input output I O subsystems include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some example embodiments of the invention the electronic device also includes a removable memory module typically including flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation or location of the device or information from which the orientation or location of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some example embodiments of the invention the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some example embodiments specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. Additionally or alternatively the orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the device relative to known locations or fixtures in a communication network.

In some example embodiments of the invention the orientation subsystem causes the processor to store the orientation data in one of the flash memory the RAM or the ROM . The clock subsystem may generate a timestamp indicative of the time of generation of the orientation data and this timestamp may additionally be stored in a memory of the device .

In some example embodiments of the invention the orientation subsystem includes other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various example embodiments the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some example embodiments of the invention the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

The electronic device may include a location determination subsystem which is configured to determine the specific location of the electronic device in space e.g. on the surface above or below the earth. The location determination subsystem may comprise a global positioning system GPS or other satellite signal based location determination means or cellular or radio frequency based location determination means. The location determination subsystem may determine the location of the electronic device in the form of longitude latitude and altitude above or below sea level and pass corresponding data pertaining to this location to the processor .

The electronic device in at least some example embodiments includes a Near Field Communication NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other electronic devices or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna. In such an embodiment the orientation sensor may generate data which specifies a distance between the electronic device and an NFC transceiver.

The electronic device includes a microphone or one or more speakers. In at least some example embodiments an electronic device includes a plurality of speakers . For example in some example embodiments the electronic device includes two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within the electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such example embodiments the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display.

In at least some example embodiments each speaker is associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The electronic device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of the electronic device or the housing of the electronic device . In such example embodiments the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display or the housing. In at least some example embodiments the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some example embodiments the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that electronic device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the electronic device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of the electronic device . That is in at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on the electronic device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images detected by the camera.

In some example embodiments of the invention the electromagnetic radiation source is an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some example embodiments the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some example embodiments of the invention the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

The electronic device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices . In at least some example embodiments the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Any one or more of the communication subsystem the NFC subsystem and the short range wireless communications subsystem serves as a communication subsystem which is configured to provide an indicator of the number of incoming messages being received by the electronic device . The incoming messages may be emails messages received via a social networking website SMS short message service messages or telephone calls for example.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as a media player module . In the example embodiment of the media player module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other example embodiments the presentation module could be implemented as part of the operating system or other applications .

The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital ND conversion. ND conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed under the control of the control electronics . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed under the control of the control electronics including modulation and encoding. The processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The control electronics provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms.

The control electronics can have any of a number of alternative arrangements. For example the control electronics may comprise program control software stored in one of the RAM ROM or flash memory . In this example the processor operates under the control of the stored program control software to perform the above described steps of receiving and transmitting. In a further example embodiment the control electronics comprises an integrated circuit such as an ASIC mounted on the electronic device . It will be appreciated that the specific form of the control electronics is not important. Instead the important feature of the control electronics is that it is configured to perform the described functions.

As depicted in in some example embodiments of the invention the communication subsystem comprises a second transmitter . Furthermore in addition to the first transmit antenna the communication subsystem may additionally comprise a second transmit antenna . It will be appreciated that the second transmitter may be an individual transmitter component or a subcomponent of a second transceiver not shown . In this embodiment the control electronics operates as described above to perform any necessary processing of the signal to be transmitted. However in this case either the first transmitter or the second transmitter then transmits the signal via one or both of the first transmit antenna and the second transmit antenna . The second transmitter and second antenna may be configured solely for transmission of a beacon signal see below whilst the first transmitter and may be configured solely for transmission of voice signals or data signals or both.

The electronic device is in some example embodiments a portable communication device which may provide three principal modes of communication a data communication mode a voice communication mode and an emergency beacon mode which are each set and activated or deactivated under the control of the control electronics . In the data communication mode a received data signal received over the wireless network such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device can compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

In the emergency beacon mode the electronic device outputs the beacon signal via the transmitter the second transmitter or both the transmitter and the second transmitter . As discussed in more detail below the beacon signal may take any form that allows a rescue team to detect the signal and identify an area location or exact location from which the signal has originated. For example the rescue team may use direction finding receivers triangulation techniques or any other suitable receiver capable of localising a signal source for example the hereinbefore described beacon signal receiver .

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device being a portable communication device which in one example may be a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone includes all of the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment of the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example embodiment illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other example embodiments the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some example embodiments the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images detected by the camera .

After several disasters round the world it has been observed that portable communication devices particularly smartphones of victims buried under rubble and debris continued to operate. Smartphone users generally keep their devices on their person or in close proximity and it is likely that such a device will be in close proximity to a victim buried under rubble and debris after a catastrophic event.

In some example embodiments of the invention an Emergency Rescue Centre ERC transmitter is also connected to the wireless network the internet or both the wireless network and the Internet . The ERC transmitter may be configured to transmit the beacon mode instruction signal see below on command via the Internet or directly via wireless network to one or more of the electronic devices for example one or more of particular electronic devices which are located within a specific location whilst being connected to the wireless network . As a result the particular electronic devices may each be placed in their emergency beacon mode each transmitting its beacon signal over the wireless network Internet or separately to these networks as a defined radio frequency beacon signal having particularly signal characteristics see below .

The beacon signal receiver device may also be connected to the wireless network or Internet or both. As mentioned above the beacon signal receiver device may receive one or more beacon signals each transmitted from a corresponding electronic device when said beacon signal is transmitted over the wireless network or Internet .

Servers and are also connected to the Internet and one or more of them may individually or together support electronic communications services available to end users of electronic devices and enabling them to send and receive electronic communications. Servers and may be web servers or communications servers such as email servers.

Other servers and services may of course be provided allowing users of electronic devices and to send and receive electronic communications by for example Voice over IP phone calls video IP calls video chat group video chat blogs file transfers instant messaging and feeds.

Wireless network may also support electronic communications without using Internet . For example a user of electronic device may use wireless network to make telephony calls video calls send text messages send multimedia messages and send instant messages to electronic device

The example shown in is intended to be non limiting and additional network infrastructure may of course be provided such as a Public Switched Telephone Network not shown which may be used for example to make telephony calls using smartphone to a wired phone not shown .

At block the base station transmits or broadcasts a signal via transmitter to all electronic devices connected to the wireless network in communication with the base station . All of these electronic devices which need to be placed into emergency beacon mode may be at the specific location or within the specified area or only some of which may be within the specified area and others may be in communication with similar base stations located at other locations. The signal transmitted by the base station comprises a beacon mode instruction signal which can be received by each electronic device which is currently in communication with the base station .

Following receipt of the beacon mode instruction signal by each electronic device the control electronics in each device determines whether to place the device into emergency beacon mode for example by determining if the electronic device is at or within a range of the specified area or location indicated by the base station . This can be done by comparing the specific location or area identified by the base station with the location identified from the location determination means . Alternatively each and every electronic device that receives the beacon mode instruction signal from the base station is placed into emergency beacon mode no matter what its specific location is.

If the device determines that it should be placed into emergency beacon mode it starts to transmit its beacon signal and continues transmitting its beacon signal until instructed otherwise by user input of a further instruction signal received from the base station or other device.

The base station can be any suitable base station for transmitting or broadcasting signals over a wireless network to electronic devices within a specified geographic area for example an area located within a broadcast range of the base station up to 0.05 0.1 0.5 1 2 3 4 5 10 20 or 30 kilometers. These ranges may define the cell size for cellular communications by the system. In some example embodiments of the invention the base station is a microcell wireless base station configured to broadcast the instruction signal to electronic devices in an area local to the base station for example an area located within a broadcast range of the microcell base station up to 5 10 20 30 40 50 100 or 1000 meters.

It will be appreciated that the characteristics of the beacon mode instruction signal which is transmitted are dependent on the characteristics of the base station and the wireless network . The beacon mode instruction signal may therefore comprise any signal suitable for transmission or broadcast to electronic devices in a specified area. For example the instruction signal may comprise a data packet a frequency pulse a paging message or any other signal that can be received and detected by the electronic devices .

In some example embodiments of the invention the base station may be a Short Message Service SMS message centre. In this case the beacon mode instruction signal comprises an SMS message and this message may include an emergency beacon mode flag identifying the message as a beacon mode instruction signal and possibly location data defining the specific area in which electronic devices must be located in order to be placed into emergency beacon mode.

In some example embodiments of the invention the base station is the server of an Internet Service Provider ISP and the instruction signal comprises a data packet transmitted across the Internet .

In further example embodiments of the invention the base station is a Cell Broadcast Center CBC and the beacon mode instruction signal is a cell broadcast message broadcast by the CBC to all electronic devices connected to a cell corresponding to the CBC. The size of the cell corresponding to the CBC may vary according to the ranges specified above. The CBC may be connected to a Base Station Controller BSC in GSM networks or to a Radio Network Controller RNC in UMTS networks.

An example of the beacon mode instruction signal first instruction signal for example constituting a cell broadcast message is shown in . The message may comprise a header field in which a cell broadcast identification command or other broadcast command may indicated and instruction data comprising further data such as an emergency beacon mode flag and possibly location or area data for indicating the location or area of the electronic devices which have to be placed into emergency beacon mode. When the beacon mode instruction signal is received at the electronic device and processed by control electronics the control electronics determines that beacon mode instruction signal contains the emergency beacon mode flag.

At block the control electronics polls the receiver to determine whether the beacon mode instruction signal has been received and identified from the base station . The control electronics may continually attempt to detect whether that the received signal comprises the beacon mode instruction signal .

In some example embodiments of the invention responsive to the detection of the beacon mode instruction signal the control electronics causes one or other of the transmitter and the second transmitter to transmit an acknowledgement signal to the base station . An example acknowledgement signal is shown in in which the acknowledgement signal comprises an acknowledgement header and data indicating a device ID. This device ID may be unique to the electronic device which has detected the beacon mode instruction signal .

At block the electronic device operating under the control of the control electronics switches from the first normal mode to a second emergency beacon mode. In the emergency beacon mode the receiver ceases to receive and transmit communications of the voice and data modes. Instead the receiver is configured to receive only predetermined instruction signals or no signals at all and one or both of the transmitters and are configured to transmit only the beacon signals . In this manner battery life of the electronic device may be conserved so that the beacon signal can be emitted for as long a duration as possible.

At block the processor operating under the control of the control electronics generates the beacon signal . The beacon signal may be any signal suitable for transmission through several layers of debris and suitable for use by the beacon receiver device to determine a location or direction of the source of the signal.

In some example embodiments of the invention the beacon signal comprises a low power pulse signal. The low power ensures that battery power is conserved. However the signal must have sufficient power to penetrate several meters of debris.

In some example embodiments of the invention block further comprises the location determination subsystem determining the device location for inclusion in the beacon signal .

In some emergency situations the location determination subsystem may not be functional. For example if the electronic device is buried under several meters of debris and rubble the location determination subsystem may not be able to obtain information necessary to determine the device location since for example satellite or other radio frequency signals used to determine location are restricted or blocked entirely. In this case the most recent location data that has been obtained by the location determination subsystem and stored in one of the device memories the RAM the ROM or the flash memory is included and transmitted in the beacon signal .

In some example embodiments of the invention the beacon signal is transmitted by the transmitter via antenna which are the same transmitter and antenna as are used for transmitting voice and data signals when operating in voice communication mode and data communication mode respectively.

In alternative embodiments the beacon signal is transmitted by the second transmitter via one or other or antenna or second antenna . For example it may be desirable to use an omnidirectional antenna for transmission of the beacon signal. Suitable antennae may include for example dipole antennae multiple input multiple output MIMO antennae or other tunable antennae.

In some example embodiments of the invention in which the beacon signal comprises one or more data packets the beacon signal may be transmitted via the internet .

In some example embodiments of the invention the beacon signal is transmitted periodically whilst there is sufficient power in the battery .

In some example embodiments of the invention transmission of the beacon signal ceases in response to the control electronics detecting that a second instruction signal has been received. The second instruction signal comprises any suitable signal that can be detected by the control electronics when the electronic device is operating in emergency mode. This provides the ability for the electronic device to be switched back into normal data or voice communication mode

For example if the Emergency Rescue Centre transmitter determines that a geographic area originally thought to have been experiencing an emergency situation is later determined to be outside the catastrophe zone the Emergency Rescue Centre transmitter can command the base station to transmit a second instruction signal to electronic devices in the geographic area. On detection of the second instruction signal the control electronics causes the electronic devices to exit the emergency mode and accordingly to cease transmission of the beacon signal.

In an example embodiment in which the base station comprises a CBC in response to a command from the Emergency Rescue Centre transmitter the CBC transmits a second cell broadcast message instructing the electronic devices to disable or deactivate emergency mode. In response to receiving this second cell broadcast message the electronic device exits emergency mode ceases transmission of the beacon signal and if possible dependant on remaining battery power returns to one or other of voice or data communication mode.

In an example embodiment of the invention the second instruction signal can be input manually via the input interface . In this manner electronic device users not requiring rescue can manually override the emergency mode thereby preventing transmission of the beacon signal . In this manner efforts of rescue teams can be focused on electronic device users requiring assistance.

In this embodiment on detection of the beacon mode instruction first signal the electronic device operating under the control of the control electronics alerts the user that the electronic device is entering emergency beacon mode. For example an audible alert may be emitted through the speaker or the electronic device may vibrate. In addition to the alert the electronic device may display instructions on the display indicating how a user can respond to the alert to avoid the electronic device entering emergency mode. In the absence of the required response to the alert the electronic device enters emergency beacon mode. Instructions regarding how the emergency mode can be disabled may be displayed on the display whilst the electronic device is operating in emergency mode. Detection of the required user input at any stage whilst the electronic device is operating in emergency mode causes the emergency mode to be disabled or deactivated.

At block the processor determines an indication of the remaining power or charge in the battery via the battery interface . For example the indication of the remaining battery power might be an indication of an expected time to failure of the battery wherein failure of the battery occurs when the battery no longer contains sufficient power to transmit a beacon signal .

At block the processor compares the remaining battery power to a threshold power value stored in the ROM . If the remaining battery power or the time to failure of the battery is determined to be greater than the threshold value the transmitter or the second transmitter operating under control of the control electronics continues to transmit the beacon signal .

Alternatively if the processor determines that the remaining battery power or the time to failure of the battery is less than the threshold value at block the processor determines whether the beacon signal can be modified to reduce power consumption.

In embodiments where instructions regarding an input required to disable the emergency mode are displayed on the display whilst the electronic device is operating in the emergency mode the processor operating under the control of the control electronics ceases to display the instructions if the battery power is determined to be less than the threshold power at block .

If the processor determines that the beacon signal cannot be modified to reduce power consumption the transmitter or the transmitter operating under the control of the control electronics transmits the beacon signal without modification. In order to conserve power consumption if the output of block is negative method then exits at block . In this manner needless repetition of blocks to is avoided in order to avoid unnecessary consumption of battery power.

If on the other hand the processor determines that the beacon signal can be modified to reduce power consumption at block the processor operating under the control of the control electronics modifies characteristics of the beacon signal . For example if the current beacon signal being transmitted is a modulated frequency pulse the processor may modify the beacon signal by ceasing to modulate the pulse before transmission. In this manner battery power that would otherwise be required to perform the modulation is no longer used.

Similarly in a further example embodiment of the invention at block the beacon signal comprises the data signal and the processor operating under the control of the control electronics modifies the beacon signal to comprise a frequency pulse e.g. the frequency pulse of . In this manner battery power that would otherwise be required to generate and transmit the beacon signal data packets is no longer used. Alternatively if the beacon signal comprises the frequency pulse the period at which the pulse is transmitted is decreased in order to conserve battery life.

