---

title: Document encryption and decryption
abstract: A document encryption and decryption system and method for selectively encrypting and decrypting files and attachments, electronic mail, text messages, and any other items to protect or secure its contents by helping to prevent unauthorized individuals from viewing data in human-perceivable or readable form. The encryption and decryption system includes remote authentication to verify user credentials stored on a remote database hosted by a web server. The encryption system further includes remote deletion to automatically delete at least encrypted items stored on the user's computer, handheld or portable device, smartphone, tablet, and any other computer of any kind when enabled and logged onto a network. The encryption and decryption system includes selectively decrypting items by retrieving a decryption key and decrypting the item, and/or typing a decryption key if the item cannot be decrypted with the key, and/or sending an invitation to a recipient using the web server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129107&OS=09129107&RS=09129107
owner: SECURENCRYPT, LLC
number: 09129107
owner_city: Jackson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120210
---
The instant application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 463 023 filed Feb. 10 2011 the entire specification of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to an encryption system for encrypting and decrypting files and Method for same.

Some of the common problems with known encryption and decryption methods are that it is a difficult and time consuming process for a user to accomplish which requires training is not easily implemented and is usually difficult typically requiring several steps in order to encrypt a data file e.g. 4 5 steps to navigate using the computer s mouse when attempting to set up for encryption decryption and or to encrypt decrypt the file itself. Another common problem with conventional encryption applications is that the authentication data e.g. password s name address secret answer and the like are stored on the user s personal computer allowing for a computer hacker or other unauthorized or malicious individual to break the protection and have access to the user s credentials. Ordinary encryption methods are inefficient in preventing such unauthorized individuals from embedding the key thereby allowing unauthorized access to the data file. In addition it is also well known that any protection algorithm can be broken in a certain amount of time e.g. time can vary from hours to years and thousands of years. Thus security features like computer logins can be ineffective. Also typical encryption only encrypts the communication and does not allow for remote deletion of encrypted files when the user s computer is lost or stolen. Attachments and an electronic email message are also typically not able to be bundled together for encrypting the whole message via Webmail. Typical encryption is also not available or compatible with mobile devices and does not pair encryption decryption with a remote deletion feature. Typical encryption does not backup encrypted files on a remote server. Another common problem with typical encryption is that it does not automatically re encrypt a data file upon a user closing out of the data file thereby allowing its contents to be viewed by an unauthorized individual e.g. by computer hacking remotely in a wireless communication environment. Accordingly the need emerged for development of an affordable encryption system that is more effective easier to use and which provides secure user authentication and automatic remote deletion of files.

In accordance with the present invention an encryption system and method have been developed for encrypting and decrypting any type of file to protect or secure its contents by helping to prevent unauthorized individuals from viewing data in human perceivable or readable form. In the event that a hacker or other unauthorized party tries to access information on a computer they will not be able to easily view or read the encrypted information. It will appear to them as a jumbled series of letters numbers and symbols. Thus encrypted information can be useless to any intruder who is targeting personal sensitive and or private information. A decryption key and or handshake process allows encrypted files stored and or emailed or otherwise transmitted to be selectively decrypted.

Generally for file processing the user can request encryption decryption and or opening a file. By way of non limiting example the authorized user creating a smartphone message e.g. a SMS text message on an Android requests encryption preferably with a one click to encrypt touch screen button. Yet another non limiting example is an invited user receives an encrypted email and can click a decrypt key to decrypt its contents e.g. one cick decrypt button on the mobile device touch screen.

Generally the encrypting decrypting processing steps can include getting a decryption key of an email sender and if the key is retrieved decrypting the email and or typing a key if the email cannot be decrypted with the key and or sending a key invitation to the recipient using the web server handshake process .

The present invention includes Remote Delete and Remote Authentication and includes an Internet Explorer Plug in as well as a reporting feature. A back up feature allows items to be stored on the remote server not just a flash drive for example and when a user obtains a new mobile phone or other computer the user can log in to retrieve the backed up items e.g. to retrieve contact lists files photos text messages . In addition the items can be recovered no matter what mobile phone provider or carrier the user had has e.g. if a user had mobile phone carrier before a smartphone was stolen and the user now has a new phone carrier the user can recover their items for use with their new smartphone and phone carrier since they were backed up on the remote server not by carrier . Additionally the entire mobile phone is encrypted not just the communication e.g. all of a user s files photos contacts everything is encrypted until the user logs on to decrypt. This is an important benefit over conventional systems which allowed any unauthorized person to pick up a mobile device and view its contents.

Further areas of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating the preferred embodiment of the invention are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

The following description of the preferred embodiment s is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the invention its application or uses.

Redundant backup web servers and or redundant internet connections can be used to help ensure users can login at anytime for remote authentication and performing encryption and decryption. It is further understood that the web server can typically include additional components or elements e.g. processors processing units network connections control circuitry routers hard drive and or storage device s database s hardware software and etc and that the user computers typically includes additional components e.g. processors processing units monitors network connections e.g. for connecting to Internet local area network and or intranet USB ports BUS user interfaces input devices touch screens hard drive and or storage device s flash drives and etc and can utilize Web browsers and portals.

If a user desires to decrypt and view an email block and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent at act to the web server for remote authentication and the email is added to the processing queue at act for encryption. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act and if it is determined that the email is not encrypted at decision a message is shown that the email is not encrypted at act . If it is determined that the user is logged in act and if it is determined that the email is encrypted act the encryption key of the email sender is retrieved at act from the web server. If it is determined that the users are not linked at decision e.g. handshake and or invitation process as will be explained in greater detail below then a message is shown that the sender s key cannot be retrieved at act . If it is determined that the users are linked e.g. handshake and or invitation at then it is determined if the email can be decrypted using the retrieved key at decision . If it is determined that the email can be decrypted using the retrieved key at the email is decrypted at act and the decrypted email is shown at act e.g. the content of the email and any attachments in viewable human perceivable form. The windows message communication channel block can remain active and waits for additional input block . If it is determined that the email cannot be decrypted using the retrieved key at a message is shown that the key is invalid at act . A window is displayed at act for the user to type in a key and or send a user invitation and or call the web service for sending the invitation e.g. WCF Service. If it is determined that the user typed in a key at decision the decrypted email is shown at . If it is determined that the user did not type in a key at the user may send an invitation at decision and the web server is called for sending the invitation at act . If the user does not type in a key the windows message communication channel block can remain active and waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to send an email block e.g. automatically encrypted email if it is determined that the automatic encryption of outgoing emails is on at decisions and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent at act to the web server for remote authentication and the email is added to the processing queue at act for encryption. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act the email content and attachments are encrypted at act and the encrypted email is sent at act . The windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block . If it is determined that the automatic encryption option for sending emails is not on for a user at decisions and if it is determined that that sender s address is not on the automatic encryption list at decision for automatic encryption the email content and attachments will not be automatically encrypted and the unencrypted email is sent at act . The windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to decrypt and view an email block e.g. automatically decrypted email if it is determined that the automatic decryption of incoming emails is on at decisions and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision the windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block . If it is determined that the user is logged in act the email content and attachments are decrypted at act . The windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block . If it is determined that the automatic decryption option for sending emails is not on for a user at the email content and attachments will not be automatically decrypted and the windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to send an electronic invitation block if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent at act to the web server for remote authentication and the email is added to the processing queue at act for encryption. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act the user selects at least one contact from a contact list at act that the user desires to send an invitation. If it is determined that the user selected at least one contact at decision the web server is called for sending the invitation at act . If it is determined that the user did not select at least one contact at the user can type in an email address of the desired recipient at act . Once it is determined that the user typed in a valid email address at act the web server is called for sending the invitation at act .

It is understood that the encryption system and method is not limited to use with Microsoft Outlook plug ins and can be used with web based email systems e.g. Gmail Yahoo AOL Hotmail any web based email system accessed using Internet Explore web browsers and any other web based email.

Referring to the figures generally it is understood that an Internet Explorer Plug in e.g. used with Gmail and the like allows a user to send encrypt with a click of the mouse and or touch screen and if the recipient also has the Internet Explorer plug in and or the encryption decryption system on their computer they right click to decrypt. The user does not have to send the decryption key in the email for example. The recipient of the email receives an invitation from the sending user and if the invitation is accepted by the recipient e.g. a handshake process it is stored at the remote web server so that the users are linked with one another. Thus the decryption key is stored on the remote server not locally on the computer e.g. not on the recipient s computer for added security of the key and encrypted data. A user can also use different keys for different people for added security. A user can also selectively remove or delete their link with another person. It is further understood that the handshake process is not limited to being employed with Internet Explorer ActiveX and can be used in any alternative messaging environment including but not limited to Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Outlook and etc.

Referring to to generally there is depicted a flowchart illustrating the steps performed for encrypting and or decrypting and opening files e.g. email s and or attachment s for a web based email plug in e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Plug in generally shown at in accordance with the present invention. The operations illustrated can be if implemented in at least the computer environment of the encryption system . Information and actions available to the user can be through graphical icons touch screens visual indicators and other graphical user interfaces and combinations thereof. A windows message communication channel is started at block for processing messages and waits for input at block on what type of processing is requested. A user may wish to encrypt a newly drafted Webmail block for secure sending by means of the Internet Explorer Active X for example. If it is determined that the user is not logged in at act a login request is sent at act to the web server for remote authentication of the user s credentials and a reference of the Webmail is added to the processing queue at act for encryption. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act and if the Webmail is determined to be not encrypted at decision the user is offered to attach documents at block . If the user has attached documents to the Webmail at act the attachments will be encrypted at block along with the process of encrypting the HTML hypertext markup language body of the Webmail at block . Should the message be already encrypted at act a message is shown that the email is encrypted at act . The windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block .

If a user wishes to decrypt a Webmail block and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at act a login request is sent at act to the web server for remote authentication and a reference of the Webmail is added to the processing queue at act for decryption. If it is determined that the user is logged in at and if it is determined that the email is decrypted at act a message is shown that the email is not encrypted at act . If it is determined that the user is logged in act and if the Webmail is decrypted act a list with linked users is retrieved at act . If it is established that the Webmail cannot be decrypted by means of the selected encryption key of the email sender at act a message is shown informing that the used key is not valid at act . In the scenario of linked users the sender s key can be retrieved and used for email decryption by the recipient. If the Webmail can be decrypted using the selected key at the email HTML body is decrypted at act and presented to the user at block such that the Webmail can be viewable in human perceivable form by the recipient.

If a user desires to open an email at block and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at block a login request is sent at act to the web server for remote authentication and a reference of the email is added to the processing queue at act for opening. If the user is logged in at block the Message.dpi e.g. the message image is downloaded at act . If it is established that the file is compressed at block e.g. reducing the size of the file it is decompressed at act and a Windows Message is sent for opening the file with the program at act . If it is established that the file is not compressed at block a Windows Message is sent for opening the file with the program at act .

The remote authentication process e.g. at and as will be explained in greater detail below and to is preferably based at least in part on a face recognition authentication feature built upon secure and reliable algorithms detecting the features of each individual s face and comparing them to the face characteristics stored in a secured database. The technology allows for a more complete analysis of the similarity between different faces.

The remote authentication helps to protect the user s private data by storing the credentials on a secured server. For improved security reasons a SSL connection e.g. secure sockets layer connection is used for authentication and the password does not travel when the user tries to login. Instead the hash code of the password is sent to the secured WCF Service for validating the credentials. A string hash code cannot be reversed for reconstructing the original password.

Generally the login session has three purposes authentication authorization and identification. This means that the first step is represented by checking if the login session identification exists. If it does exist the WCF Service will validate the access to certain functionality. If no WCF communication will be detected for a login session in a specific amount of time which represents a WCF Service setting e.g. 2 days the login session will be deleted as it will be considered to be expired. After deleting the login session identification from the secured server side at the next WCF method invocation the user will be prompted for authentication.

Another advantage of the login session usage is represented by uniquely identifying a user. This functionality ensures that a WCF Method call does not retrieve information about the private data of another user e.g. User Profile Encrypted files and the like . Another important aspect is represented by keeping only one login session for a user account. This restricts a user from the possibility of simultaneously using the same account from different applications e.g. home and work . For exemplification if a user is authenticated at work and after the working hours he she will use the same account from home the program authenticated at work will be considered as expired. This implies that in the next working morning the user will be prompted to type the application credentials.

Referring to to generally there is depicted a flowchart illustrating the main steps performed for the remote authentication process in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention generally shown at which starts by invoking the WCF service at act . If it is determined that the user has a camera attached to the computer laptop phone at decision and if the facial recognition wizard has not been displayed at act the wizard is displayed to the user at block e.g. a user interface to guide the user through steps. If the user enabled facial recognition at act the user is asked to look at the camera and a face template is recorded in the database for that specific user act . In the situation when the user enabled facial recognition block the webcam is started in the attempt of detecting the user s stored face template act . If it is established that the user s face has been detected at block the face template is determined act and sent to the WCF service at act for authentication. If it is determined that the user s face has been recognized at block a login session will be generated and stored in the database act and an acknowledgement is returned about the successful login process along with information about the current user block . If the user s face has not been recognized as stored in the database at act and if there were more than a predetermined number of allowed authentication attempts at block e.g. greater than 10 authentication attempts the camera will be stopped act and camera less login will be used at act . It is understood that alternatively dual authentication requiring both facial recognition and login process e.g. username and password can be required.

In case it is determined that the user does not have a camera act or if the allowed authentication attempts exceeds a predetermined number at a login screen is presented at block . If it is determined that the user typed the login credentials act a login request is received block . If it is determined that the client s IP e.g. internet protocol was banned for multiple consecutive attempts to login at block a message is presented about retrying to login after a certain amount of time act . If it is established that the client s IP was not banned block and if the credentials were determined to be accurate act a login session will be generated and stored in the database act and an acknowledgement is returned about the successful login process along with information about the current user act . The login session will be sent by the program e.g. Desktop Application Mobile Application at every WCF Communication step during the application session lifetime.

In the situation when the user s credentials were not determined to be accurate at and if it is determined that the user s IP accounted for multiple unsuccessful login attempts at the user s IP will be banned for a certain amount of time at act . For protecting the user s credentials against Brute Force attacks e.g. hacking programs the WCF Service validates every login attempt. This means that if a user fails to login for a predetermined number of times e.g. 3 times the IP from which the user tried to authenticate will be banned for a predetermined period of time e.g. 30 seconds at act . By way of example after the 30 seconds if the correct credentials will not be provided the IP will be banned for another 60 seconds and so on. The number of seconds can be calculated as Attempt Number 3 60 seconds. If it is determined that the user s credentials were not accurate act and that the user s IP did not attempt to login for several times an invalid credentials error is displayed at block .

It is understood that remote authentication does not demand that a user work from a specific registered computer e.g. having a pre registered serial number for predetermined verification parameters. A user can access a portal from anywhere e.g. a user can go to Yahoo GMail and etc. using another person s computer that has the program. Remote authentication can also run off the remote web server and the user just has to login e.g. using their individual username and password. It is understood that client less install is contemplated. All the processing power can be on that remote server so it is not running on a user s phone laptop or other computer and if a user s phone laptop or other computer crashes or otherwise becomes inoperable files are not affected since the files can all be stored or backed up on the remote server.

Referring to to generally there is depicted a flowchart illustrating steps that may be performed for encrypting and or decrypting files and or opening files e.g. emails and or attachments for the Microsoft Outlook plug in and Internet Explorer ActiveX plug in shown generally at comprising parallel processes implementing the remote authentication and remote deletion in accordance with certain embodiments. When an action is requested at block it must be determined whether or the program is running at act . Once it is determined that the program is running at and the user is logged in at then a message processor can determine the requested action that is received from the Microsoft Outlook and or Internet Explorer ActiveX plug in generally shown at . The file can be processed e.g. by encrypting it decrypting it and or opening etc as further depicted in to

If the program was determined not to be running act the program can be started at block by first determining whether the program is installed on the computer at decision . If the program is installed at the install status process is exited at act . If the program is not installed at the USB drive identification is retrieved at act and the computer identification is determined at act e.g. device s a numbers.

Once the computer identification is determined act parallel processes implement the remote authentication shown generally at and remote deletion shown generally at . Additionally the user must be logged in to open and or view encrypted files and to decrypt. Thus if the user is not determined to be logged in act the remote authentication and remote deletion processes are entered.

A remote authentication login screen is shown at allowing the user to enter the authentication user credentials and the web server authenticates the entry at act . If it is determined that the login was not successful at decision the user is directed back to the login screen at . If the user logs in on the login screen at using the user s credentials and the web server authenticates the information using the database at information can be stored in the memory about the logged in user and the key at act and the user is notified of all connected Microsoft Office applications and the web server sends the user the key at act . A wait state block remains active and waits for additional input by the message processor .

It is understood that the user authentication authorization decision can be taken and stored on the web server side and the communication between the program and the web server is encrypted.

Remote deletion shown generally at implements automatic deletion of encrypted files when a reported lost or stolen computer is connected to the internet. The user can have the computer marked as lost stolen or otherwise compromised e.g. by calling a support center and providing user credentials and or secret answers s . Once enabled when the device attempts to authenticate with the remote server a delete d is sent back to the device and all encrypted content is deleted. Alternatively users can choose to have the entire contents of the computer deleted.

If it is determined that the computer identification is listed to a lost or stolen device at decision a list of files folders for remote deletion is retrieved at act . If the number of files folders to delete is determined to be greater than zero at act the file folder is deleted at act preferably silently allowing for remote deletion without the person who accessed the Internet with the reported stolen device even knowing that the file s is are deleting. If it is determined that the file was deleted at decision a report is sent to the web server confirming that the file s folder s was successfully removed from the device at act . If it is determined that the file was not successfully deleted at a report is sent to the web server that the item s was not removed at act and deletion is attempted again. The remote deletion continues until the number of files to remove is zero.

Referring to to generally there is depicted a flowchart illustrating the steps performed for encrypting and or decrypting and opening receiving and or sending files e.g. text messages and email s generally shown at for mobile devices e.g. smartphones Blackberry Android and Windows Mobile operating systems and tablets. Generally the system and method in accordance with the present invention can be the primary email client and preferably a touch screen is provided with a one click to encrypt touch screen button and or one click to decrypt touch screen button for easier use. Once the mobile device identification ID is determined at act e.g. the device s serial numbers a parallel process is implemented comprising authentication and remote deletion. Remote deletion implements automatic deletion of at least encrypted files of a reported lost or stolen mobile device e.g. when the device is connected to the internet. Once enabled when the device attempts to authenticate with the remote server a delete command is sent back to the device and all encrypted content is deleted. Alternatively users can choose to have the entire contents of the mobile device deleted.

If it is determined that the mobile device ID is listed to a lost or stolen device at decision if the number of files to delete is determined to be greater than zero at act the file is deleted at act preferably silently allowing for remote deletion without the person who accessed the internet with the reported stolen device even knowing that the file s is are deleting. If it is determined that the file was deleted at decision a report is sent to the web server confirming that the file s was successfully removed from the device at act . If it is determined that the file was not successfully deleted at a report is sent to the web server that the item was not removed at act and deletion is attempted again. The remote deletion continues until the number of files to remove is zero.

A login screen is displayed at act and the user is prompted to login. If it is determined that the user is logged in at decision and if it is determined that the login is successful at decision the windows message communication channel remains active and waits for additional input on what processing is requested at act . If it is determined that the user is not logged in at and if it is determined that the user wants to create a new account for logging in at decision an account screen is displayed at act and if it is determined that the account is successfully created at decision the windows message communication channel remains active and waits for additional input on what processing is requested at e.g. converting and or encryption decryption and or reading and or writing and or authenticating and the like processing of messages from the network.

It is understood that the user s entire mobile device can be encrypted not just the communication e.g. all of a user s files photos contacts data and text messages are encrypted until the user logs on to decrypt. This is an important benefit over conventional systems which allow an unauthorized person to pick up a mobile device and view its contents.

The flowcharts depicted in to are similar to to in that a user may wish to encrypt a newly drafted email for sending securely block decrypt an email block send an email block receive an email block and or send an invitation block . A user may additionally desire to encrypt a text message block and or decrypt a text message block .

If it is desired that the email be encrypted block and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent at act to the web server for remote authentication. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act and if it is determined that the email is already encrypted at decision a message is shown that the email is encrypted at act . The windows message communication channel remains active and waits for additional input block . If the user is logged in act and if it is determined that the email is not already encrypted act the email content and attachments are encrypted at act and the windows message communication channel remains active and waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to decrypt and view an email block and the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent to the web server for emote authentication. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act and that the email is not encrypted at decision a message is shown that the email is not encrypted at act and the windows message communication channel waits for additional input block . If the user is logged in act and if the email is encrypted act the encryption key of the email sender is retrieved at act from the web server. If the key cannot be retrieved at a message is shown that the key cannot be retrieved at act and the windows message communication channel waits for additional input block . If the key is retrieved at and the email can be decrypted using the retrieved key at decision the email is decrypted at act and the decrypted email content is shown at act e.g. the content of the email and any attachments in viewable human perceivable form. The windows message communication channel can remain active and waits for additional input block . If the email cannot be decrypted using the retrieved key at a message is shown that the key is invalid at act . A window is displayed at act for the user to type in a key and or send a user invitation and or call the web service for sending the invitation e.g. WCF Service. If it is determined that the user typed in a key at decision and that the email can be decrypted using the key at the email is decrypted at and shown at . If the user did not type in a key the user may send an invitation at decision and the web server is called for sending the invitation at act . If the user does not send an invitation the windows message communication channel can remain active and waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to send an email block and if it is determined that the automatic encryption of outgoing emails is on at decisions and the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent to the web server for remote authentication. If the user is logged in act the email content and attachments are encrypted at act and the encrypted email is sent at act . The windows message communication channel waits for additional input block . If automatic encryption for sending emails is not on at the email content and attachments will not be automatically encrypted and the unencrypted email is sent at act . The windows message communication channel waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to decrypt and view a received email block and if it is determined that the automatic decryption of incoming emails is on at decisions and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent to the web server for remote authentication. If the user is logged in act the email content and attachments are decrypted at act and the windows message communication channel waits for additional input block . If it is determined that the automatic decryption option for sending emails is not on for a user at the email content and attachments will not be automatically decrypted and the windows message communication channel waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to send an invitation block if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent to the web server for remote authentication. If the user is logged in act the user can select at least one contact from a contact list at act and if at least one contact is selected at decision the web server is called for sending the invitation at act . If it is determined that the user did not select a contact at the user can type in an email address of the desired recipient at act . Once it is determined that the user typed in a valid email address at act the web server is called for sending the invitation at and the windows message communication channel waits for additional input block . If the user did not type in a valid email address at the windows message communication channel waits for additional input block .

If it is desired that a short message service SMS e.g. text message be encrypted block and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent to the web server for remote authentication and the message can be added to a processing queue for encryption. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act the text message content is encrypted at act and the encrypted SMS is displayed at act . The windows message communication channel remains active and waits for additional input block .

If a user desires to decrypt and view an SMS block e.g. text message and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at decision a login request is sent to the web server for remote authentication and the message can be added to a processing queue for decryption. Once it is determined that the user is logged in act the SMS sender is identified as a contact at act . If it is determined that the sender is a known contact at decision the encryption key of the message sender is retrieved at act from the web server. If it is determined that the key cannot be retrieved at a message is displayed that the key cannot be retrieved at act and the windows message communication channel waits for additional input block . If the key can be retrieved at and if it is determined that the key can decrypt the SMS using the key at decision the message is decrypted at act and the decrypted message is shown at act e.g. the content of the text message in human perceivable form. The Windows message communication channel can remain active and waits for additional input block . If it is determined that the SMS cannot be decrypted using the retrieved key at a message is shown that the key is invalid at act . A window is displayed at act for the user to type in a key and or send a user invitation and or call the web service for sending the invitation e.g. WCF Service. If it is determined that the user typed in a key at decision and it is determined the key can decrypt the SMS at the message is decrypted at and the decrypted message is shown at . If it is determined that the user did not type in a key at the user may send an invitation at decision and the web server is called for sending the invitation at act . The windows message communication channel can remain active and waits for additional input block .

The purpose of the ASYNC Email Service asynchronous email service is improving performance at the point of sending an email. When an email is sent from the program whether or not having an enclosed attachment it is not actually sent but put in a waiting queue which represents a database table. The actual process of email sending is described in which is accomplished by the ASYNC Email Service a distinct application shown generally at and may be used with various embodiments of the invention.

The ASYNC Email Service supports the processing of multiple email queues block at once. At startup the connections at act to all the waiting queues at are verified and after validating all the connections an internal timer is started at act . It connections are not validated the database entry is remade from the processing queues . The purpose of the timer is extracting emails at act from the database one by one at a certain period of time. When an email is found at it is extracted from the waiting queue and preprocessed in the situation when the email is intended to be sent encrypted at it is encrypted at act . Only then the email along with the attachments is successfully sent at act and removed from the waiting queue at act . In case an email is prevented from being sent due to the occurrence of errors it will be marked as invalid and ignored for a certain amount of time. The process will be continued until all emails from all the waiting queues have been successfully sent.

Referring to generally there is shown a flowchart illustrating a process for establishing the web server connection between at least the computer and web server to implement remote authentication using a Windows Communication Foundation WCF service in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Generally this process is implemented before traffic is allowed to get through such that the remote connection must be authorized before there is access to the web server . The process starts shown as block and moves to a parallel process wherein a WCF method is invoked at act e.g. Basic WCF Service and a cleanup process is performed starting at act . Generally the web server validates user logins. Typically every time a user requests that an action be performed e.g. email encryption the web server must authenticate the user s login and or the user has to re establish the connection e.g. Internet connection and be re authenticated e.g. the user must re instate their login if timed out.

It is understood that the user s authentication credentials can be stored and processed by the web server every time a request is made such that credentials are not held locally on the computer . It is further understood that authentication can be processed every time a user wants to perform an action e.g. encrypt a file. These are significant benefits over conventional arrangements that allow caching of credentials locally and ongoing connections which can be retrieved by computer hackers e.g. using hacker based software.

The cleanup process enables a user to cleanup an invalid entry during authentication. By way of non limiting example if a user enters an invalid username the web server can establish what the login error is and communicate the defect to the user e.g. notify the user that the username and or password is invalid. If it is determined that a cleanup is required at act the cleanup is performed at act prior to waiting a predetermined interval block to determine if additional cleanup is necessary at .

The WCF method is invoked act as an application programming interface API not local to the user computer . If it is determined that the WCF method does not need authorization at act the requested action is performed and a response is determined at act . The response is then given at act e.g. encryption complete and the process ends at . If it is determined that the WCF method needs authorization act and the user inputs a valid login at act the requested action is performed and a response is determined at act . The response is then given at act and the process ends at . If the login session is not determined to be valid act an error Message is issued at block and a response notification is given act and the process ends at .

Referring to generally the WCF service is an API in a .NET function or framework e.g. Microsoft .NET framework for guiding connections to selectively restrict or allow communications with the web server in order to allow encrypting and or decrypting of files. The Basic WCF Service or Web Service shown generally at is a process that guides the applications that are part of the system to communicate with the proper WCF Service. Thus the Basic WCF Service does not handle the communication per se but instead tells an application which URL to use. Generally the first call made by the application is to the Basic WCF Service . Typically this is a non continuous onetime process e.g. and or for a predetermined period of time unless the user changes the address from the settings section. The Basic WCF Service will return the WCF uniform resource locator URL of the main WCF Service shown generally at . This is beneficial when there are users running an old version e.g. program versions and also users running newer or latest versions. The Basic WCF Service can take the current application version at act and the application code at act which can be unique per application and not per version and also optionally a tag at act to identify the WCF Service that can communicate with them. A benefit of the Basic WCF Service is to guide an application to use the service that works for it rather than having to overwrite the service if modifications are made to the service. If any changes are made on the web server side both old and the latest applications can be used. Preferably the Secured Query Language SQL is SQL shown generally at .

Referring to there is shown a flowchart illustrating the process of returning the WCF URL. Typically for any application that the Basic WCF Service does not find a match between AppCode and version the Basic Service will return NULL when no match can be found. It is understood that the application can try to use the default service URL. Beginning at start if it is determined that the AppCode Version and Tag operably matches at act the process moves to end block . If it is determined that the AppCode Version and Tag do not match act to predetermined parameters but that it is determined that AppCode and Version operably match at act the process moves to end block . If it is determined that the AppCode Version and Tag do not match act and it is determined that AppCode and Version do not match act and if it is determined that is AppCode Null Version at e.g. Null version that matches all for which a version cannot be matched with a version column the process moves to end block . If it is determined that the AppCode Version and Tag do not match act and it is deters pined that AppCode and Version do not match act to predetermined verification parameters and if it is determined that is not AppCode Null Version at a Return NULL is made shown generally at and the process moves to end block and access can be granted.

If it is determined that the user is logged in act message is shown notifying and confirming that the current document will close at act . The document is then encrypted at act . The windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block . If a document is already encrypted and the user desires to open the encrypted document block and if it is determined that the user is not logged in at act a login request is sent act to the web server for remote authentication as set forth in greater detail above. If it is determined that the user is logged in act the user can browse for the encrypted document at act to open. The document is then decrypted at act . The document is displayed to the user at act and a Windows message is sent for opening the document at act in human perceivable or readable form. The windows message communication channel block remains active and waits for additional input block .

Referring to to generally there is depicted a flowchart illustrating the steps performed for encrypting and or decrypting files shown generally at in accordance with certain embodiments of the invention. There are depicted various types of application plug ins e.g. Word Outlook shell extension s Internet Explorer ActiveX that can be in data communication with a graphical user interface GUI . Information and actions available to the user can be through graphical icons visual indicators and the like shown generally at . When an action is requested at block it must be determined whether or not the program is running at act . It is understood that the requested action can originate from the program interface shell extension and or Office application and the like. If the program is running at and the user is logged in at act then a message processor determines the requested action that is received from the program user interface shell extension s and or Office application s . The file can be processed by encrypting it decrypting it and or opening an unencrypted file see and .

For file processing at block the user can request encryption decryption and or opening an unencrypted file. When the user s requested action is encryption shown generally at if the file is not determined to be a folder at act e.g. is not a folder containing greater than one file therein the file is encrypted at block . A report is sent to the web server confirming that the file was encrypted for that computer identification ID e.g. computer serial number to which the user is logged in login is associated and an announcement that the requested action is finished and the next state to enter is made at act . If the file is determined to be a folder at and while the number of files are determined to be greater than zero at each file in the folder will be encrypted at block . A report is sent to the web server confirming that the files were encrypted for that computer ID and an announcement that the requested action is finished and the next state to enter is made act .

For file processing at block if the user s requested action is decryption shown generally at and if the file is not determined to be a folder at act e.g. is not a folder containing greater than one file therein the file is decrypted at block . A report is sent to the web server confirming that the file was encrypted for that computer ID and an announcement that the requested action is finished and the next state to enter is made act . If the file is determined to be a folder at act and while the number of files are determined to be greater than zero at each file in the folder will be decrypted at block . A report is sent to the web server at act confirming that the files were encrypted for that computer ID and an announcement that the requested action is finished and the next state to enter is made act .

For file processing at block if the user s requested action is to open a file shown generally at in and if the is not determined to be encrypted at act the file is opened at act allowing the user to read its contents and work with and or save down the file unencrypted and or request encryption. If the file is determined to be encrypted act the file will be decrypted at block . The file reference will be saved in the memory at act and the file can be encrypted upon the user logging out. The file is opened act allowing the user to read its contents and work with the file and an announcement that the requested action is finished and the next state to enter is made act . File processing action is finished at block .

By way of non limiting example the user can input number and letter characters and calculations into a Microsoft Excel document and click on an encryption key operably disposed in a toolbar or dropdown menu to request or command that the file be encrypted to help mask the data from being viewable by an undesired party. Preferably the encryption key is a one click to encrypt key. Another example is a user creates a new email sage in Outlook and requests encryption preferably with a one click to encrypt key prior to sending. Another example is a user creating a smartphone message e.g. on a Droid and requests encryption preferably with a one click to encrypt touch screen button. Yet another non limiting example is a registered party receives an encrypted email and clicks a decrypt key to decrypt its contents preferably with a one click to decrypt key.

Referring to to generally and more particularly to and there is depicted a flowchart illustrating the steps performed for remote authentication and remote deletion for authenticating credentials prior to encrypting decrypting and or opening files in accordance with certain embodiments of the present invention. If the program was determined not to be running at shown in the program can be started at block by first determining whether the program is running from a universal serial bus USB at act if it is running from the USB drive the USB drive identification is retrieved at act and the computer identification is determined at act . If it is not running from the USB drive the central processing unit CPU identification is retrieved at act and the computer identification is determined act . Once the computer identification is determined act e.g. computer serial numbers and the like automatically obtained parallel processes implement the remote authentication and remote deletion. Additionally the user must be logged in to open and or view encrypted files and to decrypt. Thus if the user is not determined to be logged in act shown in the remote authentication and remote deletion processes are entered starting at blocks and respectively .

A remote authentication login screen allows the user to enter the authentication user credentials and the web server authenticates the entry at act e.g. matches entered credentials with stored credentials on the web server database. It is understood that authentication can additionally require that at least the computer identification that was determined act correspond with the user credentials entered by the user on the login screen e.g. user credentials and computer identification matches stored credentials on the web server database. If it is determined that the login was not successful at act the user is directed back to the login screen . If the user logs in on the login screen using the user s credentials and the web server authenticates the information using the database at the login can be determined to be successful act and the logged in user and key information e.g. encryption key and or decryption key can be stored in the memory at act . The user is notified of all connected applications e.g. Office Applications that the user logged in and the web server sends the user the key at act . It is understood that user credentials can include personal information name address secret answer password s and the like.

The user authentication authorization decision can be taken on the web server side and the communication between the program and the web server is encrypted. Another important protective benefit is that the web server authentication act database is only accessible from the server network where it resides so it helps to prevent being broken into by outside hackers due to its isolation.

Once the user is notified of all connected applications and the key is sent act a wait state block can be entered followed by the message processor determining the requested action that is received from the program user interface shell extension s and or Office application s . The file s can be processed by encrypting decrypting and or opening an unencrypted file See and .

Remote deletion implements automatic deletion of at least encrypted files when a reported lost or stolen computer is connected to the internet. The user can have the computer marked as lost stolen or otherwise compromised e.g. by calling a support center and providing user credentials and or secret answers s . Once activated remote delete will delete all encrypted files from a hard drive and or storage device substantially immediately upon connection to the internet. The compromised computer s identification is automatically determined upon connecting to the internet. When connected to the internet if it is determined that the computer identification is marked as lost or stolen at act the files will automatically be deleted. A list of files for remote deletion is obtained at act e.g. these can include a list of encrypted files on the hard drive. Optionally the user can additionally define other paths for being deleted from the stolen computer e.g. D My Documents unencrypted files . If the number of files to delete is determined to be greater than zero at act the file will be deleted at act . If it is determined that the file was successfully deleted at act a report is sent to the web server confirming that the file was successfully removed. If it is determined that the file was not successfully deleted act a report is sent to the web server confirming that the file was not successfully removed and deletion is again attempted. The remote delete continues until the number of files to remove is zero.

Referring to the Figures generally it is understood that the encryption key can be stored on the remote server.

It is within the contemplation of this invention that any previously encrypted the can optionally be re encrypted automatically upon the user dosing out of the and or upon logging off.

Generally in accordance with the present invention encryption decryption keys allow selective decryption of encrypted items that are on the computer or computer of any kind. A Microsoft Windows Communication Foundation WCF service can help authenticating the users with the encryption decryption key and login process shared and processed by the web server. Typically the WCF service is used to authenticate users with the encryption decryption key and login process stored and processed by the web server through WCF. Typically the WCF service and computer ID can be used to identify and remote delete a compromised computer. Typically the remote authentication and WCF service can be used to encrypt and or decrypt.

The encryption system in accordance with the present invention has Plug ins for applications in the Microsoft Office Suite for example. It is understood however that Plug ins for other applications can be used including but not limited to Macintosh and the like. Thus the encryption system can include plug ins including but not limited to Microsoft Office Suite plug ins and Internet Explorer IE ActiveX Firefox add on and etc and encrypts files directly from the application including but not limited to Word PowerPoint Outlook and etc and can be compatible with various operating systems including but not limited to Microsoft Office 2003 2007 2010 Windows Mobile Macintosh Windows Internet Explorer BlackBerry OS operating system Android OS and the like. It is understood that plug ins for other applications can be used including but not limited to Adobe Photoshop QuickTime media players Acrobat Reader Inuit QuickBooks and etc. Typically in accordance with the present invention a Microsoft SQL Server 2008 platform can be utilized and is built on a Microsoft.NET framework. The communication with the web servers can be performed using secured Microsoft Windows communication Foundation services. The encryption system and method can comprise a direct plug in for Microsoft Windows Internet Explorer and etc for use with Outlook Outlook Web Access Gmail Yahoo AOL Hotmail and any other web based email clients. It is understood that Microsoft SQL Server 2000 to 2008 Microsoft Access 2003 to 2010 and the like can be supported.

The encryption system also includes remote authentication to verify a user s credentials and or key stored in a remote database on a host or web server. The encryption system further includes remote delete to automatically delete encrypted files stored on or otherwise tied to the user s computer e.g. when the computer is connected to the internet if the user reports the computer as lost or stolen.

Referring to the Figures generally encryption used herein includes encryption that allows for selectively converting sending and or storing encrypted files to protect or secure the file contents by helping to prevent unauthorized individuals from viewing files in human perceivable or readable form. Decryption used herein includes decryption that allows for selectively decrypting files to be viewed in human perceivable or readable form. The description herein assumes a basic understanding of encryption and decryption by the reader.

It is understood that the terms file document and item s used herein includes but is not limited to any type of file folders documents data plaintext electronic mail emails attachments music photos digital images videos graphics scanned items spreadsheets displays personal information contact lists directories confidential or privileged information SMS messages text messages calendars notebooks electronic messages and any other file of any kind and combinations thereof. It is further understood that the term email includes any email content e.g. files attachments etc. Additionally it is understood that any operating environments and or systems and or configurations described herein in which the invention may be implemented is not intended to limit the invention its application or uses and that other computing systems environments and or configurations may be used. It is understood that the network can include Internet wireless network and etc. The term computer can include any type of computer including but not limited to personal computers laptop computers computing device handheld or portable devices smartphones e.g. Android BlackBerry Nokia and HTC mobile phones portable media players portable gaming consoles Global Positioning Units GPS notebook computer tablet and any other computer of any kind are all contemplated.

The method in accordance with the present invention can obtain and transmit predetermined credentials via a network such as the Internet to the web server for remote authentication and or remote deletion of encrypted files using wireless or wired communication or any other type of data communication network. Any encrypted files on the computer remain unreadable or unperceivable until decrypted even if the computer is lost stolen or otherwise compromised. If the user reports the computer as lost or stolen the encrypted files will automatically be deleted remotely via remote delete when the computer is first connected to the Internet thereby helping to prevent encrypted files from ever being seen or read by a thief or other undesired party. Additionally the user can optionally selectively send encrypted files to at least a second user s computer e.g. sending an email and or text message to another person s email address and or phone number accessible on any computer via the network and the receiving party can selectively decrypt the file using a key retrieved if the users are linked.

It is understood that up to at least about Advanced Encryption Standard AES 512 bit encryption e.g. at least AES 256 bit robust encryption can be used in accordance with the present invention.

Storing customer client and patient information on a user s laptop or personal computer requires security of important private information that will protect all electronic information and data. The encryption system can help aid the user in compliance with privacy and confidentiality laws service provider requirements industry standards customer client patient confidentiality and any other type of Federal and State privacy confidentiality laws and regulations e.g. the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA HITECH Act Sarbanes Oxley Act SOX Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act the Visa Payment Card Industry Document Security Standards VISA PCI DSS Basel Accords Basel II and the like. By encrypting files the user improves protection of valuable data from being hacked used or accessed by anyone. In addition the encryption system does not use valuable system resources or take up additional hard drive space for encryption. The program can run quietly in the background without burdening the user s system resources. Running in the background of the user s computer also helps to keep their information private protected and unreadable.

The process starts shown as block and moves to a parallel process wherein a WCF method is invoked at act and a cleanup process is performed starting at act . Generally a server validates user logins. Typically every time a user requests that an action be performed e.g. email encryption the server must authenticate the user s login and or the user has to re establish the connection and be re authenticated e.g. the user must re instate their login if timed out. It is understood that the user s authentication credentials can be stored and processed by the server every time a request is made such that credentials are not held locally on the computer .

The cleanup process enables a user e.g. administrator to cleanup an invalid entry during authentication e.g. a login error can notify the user that the username and or password is invalid. If it is determined that a cleanup is required at act the cleanup is performed at act prior to waiting a predetermined interval block to determine if additional cleanup is necessary.

The WCF method is invoked act e.g. as an application programming interface API and if it is determined that the user inputted a valid login at decision the requested action is performed at act and a confirmation response is given at act . If the login session is not determined to be valid act an error message is issued at block and a corresponding return response is given act .

Referring to in general generally an administrative console and or at least one administrative computer can be enabled allowing a user e.g. an entity or person s to utilize the user s own server s e.g. intranet servers administer internal licenses for use and encryption decryption keys add and or delete users and or set user encryption policies e.g. company policies.

The description of the invention is merely exemplary in nature and thus variations that do not depart from the essence of the invention are intended to be within the scope of the invention. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention.

