---

title: Methods for identifying related documents
abstract: A method includes storing two or more documents at a storage system that is associated with a document editing system and receiving usage pattern information regarding each document from the two or more documents. The method also includes determining a likelihood that the two or more documents are related documents based at least in part on the usage pattern information and defining a collection including the two or more documents if the likelihood that the two or more documents are related exceeds a threshold value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384285&OS=09384285&RS=09384285
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09384285
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---
The disclosure herein relates generally to identifying related documents. In file systems and other types of electronic document storage systems users often spend a lot of time curating their documents. One example of a way in which users curate documents is by organizing the documents into collections. For example a user may place a group of related documents in a folder and give the folder a meaningful title that describes the documents.

Previous document storage systems have implemented many different types of collections. Examples of collections include folder based collections tag based collections and keyword based collections. In some document storage systems a document can be a part of only one collection while in other document storage systems a document can be a part of multiple collections. A common goal of many types of collections however is to group related documents.

Some previous efforts have attempted to automatically group related documents based on words or phrases that appear in the documents or in their titles. Although the presence of common words or phrases in a group of documents may provide some insight as to whether those documents are related false positive results may be generated in situations where a user s documents include unrelated documents that are directed to similar subject matter and related documents may not always include common keywords.

One aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a method that includes receiving at a storage system usage pattern information regarding each document from two or more documents that are stored at the storage system. The method also includes determining whether the two or more documents are likely to be related documents based at least in part on the usage pattern information. The method also includes defining at the storage system a collection including the two or more documents if it is determined that the documents are likely to be related documents.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is a storage medium including program instructions that are executable by one or more processors. When executed the program instructions cause the one or more processors to perform operations. The operations include receiving at a storage system usage pattern information regarding each document from two or more documents that are stored at the storage system. The operations also include determining whether the two or more documents are likely to be related documents based at least in part on the usage pattern information. The operations also include defining at the storage system a collection including the two or more documents if it is determined that the documents are likely to be related documents.

Another aspect of the disclosed embodiments is an apparatus that includes one or more processors and one or more memory devices for storing program instructions used by the one or more processors. The program instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to receive usage pattern information regarding each document from two or more documents that are stored at a storage system determine whether the two or more documents are likely to be related documents based at least in part on the usage pattern information and define at the storage system a collection including the two or more documents if it is determined that the documents are likely to be related documents.

The disclosure herein relates identifying related documents based on usage pattern information. When working on a project or task users often create edit or view multiple documents that are related to the project or task. During a relatively short time period the user may simultaneously open two or more documents switch back and forth between two or more documents perform copy and paste operations between two or more documents or engage in other similar usage patterns that can be used as a basis for inferring that the documents are related. As examples the usage pattern information can include information representing transactions or events that occur with respect to the documents by one or more users such as creating accessing viewing and editing the documents. The usage pattern information can be used in isolation to determine whether documents are related or can be combined with other signals that provide a basis for inferring that the documents are related. The other signals can include but are not limited to the content of the documents and the identities of persons who have been granted access to view and or modify the documents in the context of a shared workspace in which documents are edited collaboratively.

The document storage and editing system can be implemented in the form of one or more host computing devices that implement a document storage system that is associated with a document editing system. These systems are associated at least by the ability of the document editing system to receive view edit and save documents that are stored at and or managed by the document storage system. The document storage system and document editing system can be implemented by separate servers or groups of servers. The document storage system and the document editing system need not be physically co located with one another but rather can be implemented by servers that are at remote locations with respect to each other and which communicate via the network . The document storage system and the document editing system can be operated by a single entity or by different entities. In some implementations the document storage and editing system is part of a shared workspace in which documents can be edited collaboratively by multiple users who have been granted access to view and or modify the documents by the owner of the documents. In some implementations the document editing system can include multiple document editing systems that for example each perform a different type of editing task or are operable to edit different types of documents.

One or more items can be stored at the document storage and editing system . As examples the items can include data files documents such as word processing documents spreadsheet documents presentations diagrams images video files and audio files. One or more metadata attributes can be associated with each of the items . As examples the metadata attributes can include the identities of one or more owners of the items the identities of one or more collections in which the items are included the identities of non owner third party users that are allowed to view and or access the items and any other type of data that is or can be tracked with respect to the items .

The host computing device can include memory such as a random access memory device RAM . Any other suitable type of storage device can be used as the memory . The memory can include code and data that can be accessed by the CPU using a bus . The memory can further include one or more application programs and an operating system . The application programs can include software components in the form of computer executable program instructions that cause the CPU to perform the operations and methods described herein.

A storage device can be optionally provided in the form of any suitable computer readable medium such as a hard disc drive a memory device a flash drive or an optical drive. One or more input devices such as a keyboard a mouse or a gesture sensitive input device receive user inputs and can output signals or data indicative of the user inputs to the CPU . One or more output devices can be provided such as a display device . The display device such as liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT allows output to be presented to a user for example in response to receiving a video signal.

Although depicts the CPU and the memory of the host computing device as being integrated into a single unit other configurations can be utilized. The operations of the CPU can be distributed across multiple machines each machine having one or more of processors which can be coupled directly or across a local area or other network. The memory can be distributed across multiple machines such as network based memory or memory in multiple machines performing the operations of the host computing device . Although depicted here as a single bus the bus of each of the host computing device can be composed of multiple buses. Further the storage device of each of the host computing devices can be directly coupled to the other components of the respective one of the host computing devices or can be accessed via a network and can comprise a single integrated unit such as a memory card or multiple units such as multiple memory cards. The host computing device can thus be implemented in a wide variety of configurations.

In this example a plurality of interface tabs allow the user to switch the current view between a document list interface view and a plurality of document editing interface views such as a first document editing interface view and a second document editing interface view .

The document list interface view can include a document list that displays a list of documents that are accessible by the user. The user can select one or more of the documents that is represented in the document list in order to perform operations with respect to the document or documents such as opening the document moving the document into a folder modifying a metadata attribute associated with the document and or deleting the document. Other types of operations could be performed with respect to the one or more selected documents in the context of the document list .

The document list interface view can include a navigation area . The navigation area can include one or more user operable interface elements that allow the user to navigate between different views. For example the navigation area can include a first plurality of navigation buttons that correspond to folder based collections and cause the document list interface view to display the documents associated with the respective folder based collection when operated by the user. The navigation area can also include one or more non folder based collection navigation buttons that cause the document list interface view to display one or more documents that are associated with a non folder based collection of one or more documents when operated by the user.

The first document editing interface view and second document editing interface view can each correspond to one of the documents that are represented in the document list . Each of the first document editing interface view and the second document editing interface view can include one or more user interface elements that can be utilized to view and or edit the document. Examples of these user operable interface elements include scroll bars text entry fields and buttons that implement editing and or formatting functions such as copying pasting highlighting and text formatting.

The document storage and editing system can receive and track usage pattern information that describes the actions that the user is performing with respect to one or more documents. This information can include the document being opened the document being closed information indicating that the document is being viewed and information describing editing operations that are performed with respect to the document. The information indicating that the document is being viewed can represent any action or operation that is performed by the user and which provides a suitable basis from which to infer that the document is being viewed such as a tab or window gaining focus scrolling operations highlighting operations and editing operations. Editing operations can include any manner of action taken by the user with respect to the contents of the document including cut and paste operations text entry operations and formatting operations. Information regarding these operations can be received at the document storage and editing system and can be stored as usage pattern information in association with time stamps or other information indicating the time at which the operations occurred.

Based at least in part on the usage pattern information for two or more of the documents the document storage and editing system can determine whether the two or more documents are likely to be related documents. The usage pattern information can be utilized as the sole basis for making this determination or the usage pattern information can be considered in combination with other signals that provide a basis from which to infer that the documents are related documents.

If the two or more documents are likely to be related documents for example when a likelihood that the two or more documents are related exceeds a threshold value a collection including the two or more documents can be defined at the document storage and editing system . is an illustration showing an example of a user interface screen for adding the two or more documents to a collection. As an example the user interface screen can be displayed in the context of the document list interface view as shown in . The user interface screen can identify two or more documents that have been identified as related documents by displaying document identifiers . A removal interface element can be associated with each of the document identifiers in order to allow the documents that are associated with the document identifiers to be excluded from the new collection. A text entry box can be provided to allow the user to supply a name for the new collection. The user can then accept creation of the new collection or cancel creation of the new collection using buttons that are included in the user interface screen . In an alternative implementation the user can be given the option of selecting an existing collection to which the related documents can be added.

In operation two or more documents are stored at the document storage and editing system . At operation the document storage and editing system receives usage pattern information regarding usage of the two or more documents that were stored at the document storage and editing system in operation . The usage pattern information can include information representing transactions or events that occur with respect to the documents by one or more users such as creating accessing viewing and editing the documents. The usage pattern information can reflect the usage patterns of a single user with respect to the documents or can reflect the usage patterns of multiple users with respect to the documents. Usage pattern information can be collected independently for each document from the two or more documents.

At operation a determination is made regarding whether the two or more documents are likely to be related. This determination can be made based at least in part on the usage pattern information. Other signals can be used as part of the basis for determining that the two or more documents are likely to be related documents. This determination can be made in any suitable matter. As one example a rating can be made for each of a plurality of factors including some factors that are based on the usage pattern information a weighted average of those rankings can be made and the documents can be determined to be related if the likelihood value exceeds a threshold value. Examples of processes for determining whether documents are likely to be related are described with respect to .

If at operation it is determined that the documents are related documents the process can advance to operation . At operation the documents can be added to a collection. Adding the documents to a collection can include prompting the user to request confirmation that the documents are related documents prior to creating the collection wherein the collection is created upon receiving confirmation from the user that the documents are related documents. Adding the documents to a collection can also include prompting the user for information describing the collection such as a name. Adding the documents to a collection can also include identifying at least one existing collection that is associated with at least one of the documents prompting the user to determine whether the documents should be added to the existing collection and modifying the existing collection to include the documents upon receiving confirmation from the user that the documents should be added to the existing collection. As an example an existing collection can be associated with a document when the document is already included in the existing collection. After the documents are added to a collection at operation the process ends.

The operations described in connection with the first example process can be performed at one or more computers such as at the host computing device . When an operation is performed by one or more computers it is completed when it is performed by one computer. The operations described in connection with the first example process can be embodied as a non transitory computer readable storage medium including program instructions executable by one or more processors that when executed cause the one or more processors to perform the operations. For example the operations described in connection with the first example process could be stored at the memory of the host computing device and be executable by the CPU of the respective host computing device .

At operation a determination is made as to whether two or more documents are open concurrently by a single user at the document storage and editing system. If it is determined that two or more documents are not open concurrently by a single user the process ends. If it is determined that two or more documents are open concurrently by a single user the process advances to operation .

At operation a determination is made as to whether a time threshold is satisfied with respect to two or more of the concurrently open documents. As one example the threshold can exclude any individual document that has been open less than a threshold time. As another example the threshold can be applied to exclude pairs of documents as potential related documents if they have been open concurrently by a single user for less than a threshold time. If the time threshold is not satisfied the process ends. If the time threshold is satisfied the process advances to operation .

At operation the documents are identified as related documents. This determination can be utilized for example in the process at operation . The process then ends.

The operations described in connection with the second example process can be performed at one or more computers such as at the host computing device . When an operation is performed by one or more computers it is completed when it is performed by one computer. The operations described in connection with the second example process can be embodied as a non transitory computer readable storage medium including program instructions executable by one or more processors that when executed cause the one or more processors to perform the operations. For example the operations described in connection with the second example process could be stored at the memory of the host computing device and be executable by the CPU of the respective host computing device .

At operation a determination is made as to whether two or more documents are open concurrently by a single user at the document storage and editing system. If it is determined that two or more documents are not open concurrently by a single user the process ends. If it is determined that two or more documents are open concurrently by a single user the process advances to operation .

At operation a determination is made as to whether a secondary relatedness threshold is satisfied. As one example a secondary relatedness threshold can be satisfied where a threshold number of users are identified as collaborators with respect to each of the documents being considered. Users can be identified as collaborators for example if the users have been granted access to the document if the users have accessed the document and or if the users have modified the document. As another example a secondary relatedness threshold can be satisfied based on the content of the documents such as the presence of common keywords or subject matter. If the secondary relatedness threshold is not satisfied the process ends. If the secondary relatedness threshold is satisfied the process advances to operation .

At operation the documents are identified as related documents. This determination can be utilized for example in the process at operation . The process then ends.

The operations described in connection with the third example process can be performed at one or more computers such as at the host computing device . When an operation is performed by one or more computers it is completed when it is performed by one computer. The operations described in connection with the third example process can be embodied as a non transitory computer readable storage medium including program instructions executable by one or more processors that when executed cause the one or more processors to perform the operations. For example the operations described in connection with the third example process could be stored at the memory of the host computing device and be executable by the CPU of the respective host computing device .

At operation a determination is made as to whether two or more documents are open concurrently by a single user at the document storage and editing system. If it is determined that two or more documents are not open concurrently by a single user the process ends. If it is determined that two or more documents are open concurrently by a single user the process advances to operation .

At operation a determination is made as to whether a time threshold is satisfied with respect to two or more of the concurrently open documents. As one example the threshold can exclude any individual document that has been open less than a threshold time. As another example the threshold can be applied to exclude pairs of documents as potential related documents if they have been open concurrently by a single user for less than a threshold time. If the time threshold is not satisfied the process ends. If the time threshold is satisfied the process advances to operation .

At operation a determination is made as to whether a secondary relatedness threshold is satisfied. As one example a secondary relatedness threshold can be satisfied where a threshold number of users are identified as collaborators with respect to each of the documents being considered. Users can be identified as collaborators for example if the users have been granted access to the document if the users have accessed the document and or if the users have modified the document. As another example a secondary relatedness threshold can be satisfied based on the content of the documents such as the presence of common keywords or subject matter. If the secondary relatedness threshold is not satisfied the process ends. If the secondary relatedness threshold is satisfied the process advances to operation .

At operation the documents are identified as related documents. This determination can be utilized for example in the process at operation . The process then ends.

In the first example process the second example process and the third example process a determination is made as to whether documents are open concurrently at operation operation and operation respectively. As an alternative usage information based criteria that include analyzing the usage pattern information regarding each document from two or more documents during a temporal window could be utilized in lieu of these operations. As one example a beginning time and an ending time for a working session could be determined and documents could be considered to be related if they are opened during the same working session. The beginning and ending times for a working session can be judged by any suitable criteria such as the time period during which the user is logged in to the document storage system and or the document editing system. As another example the beginning time and the ending time for a working session can be judged based on the time period during which a user has any document open at the document storage system and or the document editing system. As another alternative usage information based criteria could include determining whether two or more documents have been viewed sequentially by a single user.

In the first example process the second example process and the third example process the usage pattern information can be associated with a single user or can be associated with a plurality of users.

In the first example process the second example process and the third example process criteria relating to usage collaborators and document content are applied in the form of thresholds. In other implementations these criteria can be applied in other manners. As an example these criteria can be implemented in a factor based analysis. In one example of a factor based analysis usage patterns collaborators document content and other signals can each be modeled as a factor with a value ranging from a minimum to a maximum based on the degree to which that individual factors indicate that the documents are likely to be related.

For example instead of treating the fact that documents are open concurrently as a simple threshold the value of a usage pattern based factor can be based on usage pattern information such as the number of document editing transactions that are performed with respect to each document within a temporal window. Some document editing transactions could be weighted differently than others. For example a copy and paste operation the copies material from a first document into a second document can be weighted heavily in favor of a determination that the documents are related.

In a factor based analysis the factors can be combined for example by a weighted average where the weighting factors are assigned in any desired manner and represent for example an assessment of the probative value of the factor relative to whether the documents are related. The factors are then combined and can be compared to a threshold value in order to determine whether the documents are related. The weightings and thresholds in a factor based analysis can but need not be assigned such that a single factor is dispositive. For example documents could be identified as related where the usage pattern information strongly suggests relatedness and no secondary relatedness factors are present.

As used herein information signals or data are received by transmission or accessing the information signals or data in any form such as receiving by transmission over a network receiving by accessing from a storage device or receiving by user operation of an input device.

The foregoing description describes only some exemplary implementations of the described techniques. Other implementations are available. For example the particular naming of the components capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the systems and methods described herein or their features may have different names formats or protocols. Further the system may be implemented via a combination of hardware and software as described or entirely in hardware elements. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely exemplary and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment or implementation unless described as such.

The implementations of the computer devices e.g. clients and servers described herein can be realized in hardware software or any combination thereof. The hardware can include for example computers intellectual property IP cores application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic arrays optical processors programmable logic controllers microcode microcontrollers servers microprocessors digital signal processors or any other suitable circuit. In the claims the term processor should be understood as encompassing any of the foregoing hardware either singly or in combination. The terms signal and data are used interchangeably. Further portions of each of the clients and each of the servers described herein do not necessarily have to be implemented in the same manner.

Operations that are described as being performed by a single processor computer or device can be distributed across a number of different processors computers or devices. Similarly operations that are described as being performed by different processors computers or devices can in some cases be performed by a single processor computer or device.

Although features may be described above or claimed as acting in certain combinations one or more features of a combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

The systems described herein such as client computers and server computers can be implemented using general purpose computers processors with a computer program that when executed carries out any of the respective methods algorithms and or instructions described herein. In addition or alternatively for example special purpose computers processors can be utilized which can contain specialized hardware for carrying out any of the methods algorithms or instructions described herein.

Some portions of above description include disclosure presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of implementations of this disclosure could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

At least one implementation of this disclosure relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer readable storage medium that can be accessed by the computer.

All or a portion of the embodiments of the disclosure can take the form of a computer program product accessible from for example a non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium. The computer program when executed can carry out any of the respective techniques algorithms and or instructions described herein. A non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium can be any device that can for example tangibly contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with any processor. The non transitory medium can be for example any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for tangibly containing storing communicating or transporting electronic instructions.

It is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

