---

title: End-to-end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to one or more simulations
abstract: An end-to-end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to one or more simulations, in one aspect, may comprise establishing a BIM enablement platform architecture. A data model defines data entities and entity relationships for enabling the interoperability and workflows. A data definition language may be implemented that defines and creates a table schema of a database associated with the data model. Data management services and/or application programming interfaces may be implemented for interacting with the data model. Web services may also be provided for interacting with the data model via the Web. A user interface may be implemented that communicates with users and uses the BIM enablement platform architecture, the data model, the data definition language, data management services and application programming interfaces to provide functions to the users to perform work related to building information management.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08954480&OS=08954480&RS=08954480
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08954480
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121114
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 648 785 filed Oct. 10 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 659 134 filed on Jun. 13 2012 the entire content and disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DE EE0004261 awarded by Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention. IBM Contract No. 4352 IBM DOE 4261 

The present application relates generally to computers and computer applications and more particularly to building information management and end to end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to one or more simulations.

In Building Information Modeling BIM various tools are used by various BIM phases such as architecture design construction simulation and operations and others in generating electronic or digital representations of physical and functional characteristics of a facility or building and managing them. Each tool used in one or more of those phases has its own file format. There is no standard other than industry foundation class IFC and for the most part no interoperability among the tools. BIM Tools and File formats used by BIM tools e.g. include design tools such as Autodesk AutoCAD using .DWG and .DWF formats Revit using .RVT and .RFA formats Google Sketchup using .SKP format simulation tools such as EnergyPlus an energy simulation tool using .IDF format Radiance a lighting simulation tool using .RAD format CONTAM an airflow contaminant simulation using .PRJ format. For the BIM life cycle all those different kinds of file formats need to be supported. However current tooling platform typically caters to only one phase i.e. architecture design or one type of simulation e.g. energy simulation lighting simulation airflow simulation or containment simulation or operations.

A method for an end to end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to one or more simulations in one aspect may comprise establishing BIM enablement platform architecture. The method may also comprise defining a data model comprising data entities and entity relationships for enabling the interoperability and workflows. The method may further comprise creating a data definition language for defining and creating a table schema of a database associated with the data model. The method may also comprise implementing data management services and application programming interfaces for interacting with the data model. The method may further comprise implementing a user interface module that communicates with users and uses the BIM enablement platform architecture the data model the data definition language data management services and application programming interfaces to provide functions to the users to perform work related to building information management.

A method for end to end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to one or more simulations in another aspect may comprise interacting with a data model via a user interface or an application programming interface or combinations of both integrated on a building information management enablement platform wherein the data model may comprise at least a user data entity a user role data entity a project data entity an external information data entity a format mapping data entity an XML schema data entity a none XML schema data entity a model view definition template data entity and a repository data entity the interacting comprising at least. The method may also comprise creating a user data entity instance and populating one or more fields associated with the user data entity in the user data entity instance. The method may further comprise creating a project data entity instance of the defined data model and populating one or more fields associated with the project data entity instance. The method may also comprise adding external information data for simulation runs into an external information data entity instance. The method may also comprise adding user role information to a user role data entity instance. The method may further comprise creating one or more links to a file format and schema by populating a format mapping data entity instance and a schema data entity instance. The method may also comprise creating a model view definition template data entity instance for translation of a building architecture design output format to a simulation input format and populating the model view definition template data entity instance. The method may also comprise creating an input file by populating a repository data entity instance to identify the input file and the model view definition template data entity instance. The method may also comprise running a simulation code associated with said one or more simulations with the data of the external information data entity instance and a transformed input file that is transformed using the populated model view definition template data entity instance.

A system for an end to end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to one or more simulations in one aspect may comprise BIM enablement platform architecture implemented on a computer system having at one processor. The system may also comprise a data model comprising data entities and entity relationships for enabling the interoperability and workflows. The system may further comprise a data definition language for defining and creating a table schema of a database associated with the data model. The system may also comprise data management services and application programming interfaces for interacting with the data model. The system may also comprise a user interface module executing on the processor that communicates with users and uses the BIM enablement platform architecture the data model the data definition language data management services and application programming interfaces to provide functions to the users to perform work related to building information management.

A computer readable storage medium storing a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform one or more methods described herein also may be provided.

Further features as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure a BIM enablement platform is presented that can support all the files needed for all phases of the end to end BIM life cycle. In addition a BIM enablement platform of the present disclosure in one embodiment can host all the metadata e.g. schema Model View Definition MVD Templates or MVDTemplate for format translation etc. external data e.g. weather utility tariff compliance tax code etc. used for various kinds of simulations and provide fine grained project based role based access control to enable secure and efficient execution of the BIM workflow life cycle e.g. energy lighting airflow contaminant simulations. In one aspect the BIM enablement platform of the present disclosure provides data model data management services application programming interfaces APIs to support the hosting of BIM data and related meta data the BIM format exchange from architectural design files to various simulation files e.g. building simulations e.g. energy lighting airflow contaminant simulations as well the enablement of the BIM workflow from design simulation to operations. The BIM enablement platform of the present disclosure provides a modeling platform for the building industry that can integrate design engineering construction commissioning and operation.

Briefly building information modeling BIM refers to a process of creating and managing digital or electronic representations of corresponding physical facilities or buildings. The BIM models are typically computer generated.

Industry Foundation Classes IFC is a current data model standard used in architecture design file registered with ISO as ISO16739 and written in EXPRESS language. IFCXML is a schema of IFC in extensible markup language XML format see http buildingsmart tech.org ifcXML IFC2x3 FINAL IFC2X3.xsd .

Model View Definition MVD or an IFC View Definition defines a subset of the IFC schema needed to satisfy one or many exchange requirements of the Architecture Engineering Construction AEC industry. MVD is a standard methodology and format documenting software implementation requirements for standard IFC based data exchange adopted by the buildingSMART International in the spring of 2005. Information Delivery Manual IDM also ISO DIS 29481 describes a method used and propagated by buildingSMART to define such exchange requirements See http www.buildingsmart tech.org specifications ifc view definition .

Model View Definition Template or MVDTemplate of the present disclosure in one embodiment refers to a grouping of necessary data related to and needed for a specific instance of BIM format exchange format translation using Model View Definition which is also part of this data grouping. An example of a specific instance of BIM format exchange format translation may be from IFC to energy simulation tool EnergyPlus format .IDF or from IFC to Airflows Contaminant simulation tool CONTAM format .PRJ .

BIMserver is a building information model server BIMserver.org blank spaces are added in the URL so that the text does not automatically convert to hypertext link . BIMserver currently supports IFC2x3 model with set of functions for querying and managing IFC elements e.g. data model querying merging basic model validation version control basic access control via user authentication and model translation to ifcXML CoBIE CityGML Collada and KML.

The illustrates a BIM enablement platform of the present disclosure in one embodiment that enables a holistic and seamless workflow integration across a BIM life cycle i.e. design simulation operations and others and files used by each of the phases of the BIM life cycle. A mechanism is disclosed to enable the development of a BIM enabling platform that can host BIM data and metadata needed to integrate design simulation construction and operation etc. In one aspect the BIM enabling platform of the present disclosure enables holistic and seamless workflow execution and provide data and metadata needed across the BIM life cycle spanning over diverse collection of design e.g. modeling and simulation tools e.g. i.e. holistically manage the building information through life cycle and not just for a single phase e.g. design or simulation which the BIM related tools are supporting. In another aspect the BIM enabling platform of the present disclosure encompasses BIM data and related metadata needed to perform BIM related tasks e.g. format translation and BIM workflow execution from various BIM phases from design simulation to operations. This may include user project fine grain role based and project based access control file repositories file format schemas Model View Definition Templates and any external information needed for performing the BIM tasks throughout the lifecycle of a building e.g. weather data utility tariff compliance tax code etc. Yet in another aspect the BIM enabling platform of the present disclosure enables the creation of a modeling platform to support the hosting of BIM content and related metadata file format schemas Model View Definition Templates etc. accessible all in one place and pulling data in from external sources enables BIM format exchange from architectural design files to various simulation files e.g. building simulations e.g. energy lighting airflow contaminant simulations as well enabling the BIM workflow from design simulation construction commissioning and operation. Still in another aspect the BIM enabling platform of the present disclosure enables applications workflows that span one or more phases of the BIM lifecycle e.g. BIM file format translations between various architectural design files and building simulation files. Further in another aspect the BIM enabling platform of the present disclosure enables anywhere access to the building information model via the Internet. The BIM enablement platform of the present disclosure may support BIM data access via either type of integration e.g. loosely coupled or more tightly coupled with existing external BIM file servers e.g. BIMserver for retrieving and processing file types supported e.g. IFC and Collada and data elements e.g. IFC elements. Other different integration mechanisms for integrating with such external servers may exist.

The BIM enablement platform of the present disclosure in one embodiment allows for storage and retrieval of standards based information exchanges of building data to support various workflow use cases including but not limited to building energy simulation using EnergyPlus building lighting simulation e.g. using Radiance and contaminants and indoor air quality simulation e.g. using CONTAM and other software platform via data interoperability framework. Example use cases include file format translation from the architecture design files to energy simulation files from architecture design to contaminant simulation files and from architecture design files to lighting simulation files. A data model is presented in one embodiment that enables the development and deployment of the data management services of the present disclosure on top of a database as defined using the data model discussed in the present disclosure for operations e.g. version control of model updates query of projects and user management and others to support the various data types of the sample workflows identified using software tools e.g. EnergyPlus energy simulation Radiance lighting simulation and CONTAM Contaminants simulation . The database definition in one embodiment of the present disclosure is created using a data definition language DDL of the data model. The data management services APIs are defined and can be implemented for accessing the data stored in the database. In addition RESTful interfaces are defined and can be implemented to enable the data management services accessible over the World Wide Web Web . Thus data access is made possible over the Internet.

The following components in one embodiment of the present disclosure enable the end to end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to various simulations such energy lighting airflow or contaminant BIM enablement platform architecture Data model for enabling the interoperability workflow Data schema described in data definition language DDL for defining and creating the table schema of a database data management services Application Programming Interfaces APIs RESTful interfaces based on the data management services APIs A system that comprises a user interface that communicates with users and uses the above components to provide functions capabilities in at least the following areas but not limited to user management project management fine grained access control by project by role repository management for various file formats revision control of files in the repository model verification and application support to manage application related data and meta data e.g. format translations workflow execution etc. including adding retrieving updating and deleting files in repository file schemas Model View Definition Templates external information as well as BIM Object query.

The BIM Enablement platform interacts with various external BIM related tools platform to access files e.g. file server e.g. BIMServer in a loosely coupled environment or in a tightly coupled environment and tools such as architecture design tools e.g. AutoCAD and Revit from AutoDesk energy simulation tools e.g. EnergyPlus lighting simulation tools e.g. Radiance contaminant simulation tools such as COMTAM and others. The BIM Enablement platform may also receive metadata e.g. related to weather data geographical data tariff and tax data and others.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the Web based portal is created that enables a user to access the Building Information Modeling BIM enablement platform over the Internet. An example implementation is the Web portal through which an administrator can perform user on boarding tasks to create new users and manage the platform. As another example the Web portal may enable users to manage projects create repositories files and submit jobs e.g. running format translation workflow e.g. from IFC file type to EnergyPlus file type or from IFC to CONTAM file type and simulation workflow receive results and store results back to the BIM enablement platform.

In layer several types of connections can be enabled to access the BIM enablement platform e.g. RESTful APIs Web service interface and others e.g. secure remote terminal. A set of RESTful interfaces may also be provided based on the data management services layer below and enable those services to be accessible over the Web.

A set of data management services application programming interfaces APIs sit on top of the database data schema . The services APIs may comprise functionalities such as version control of model updates query of projects and user management and others. In one embodiment of the present disclosure these data management services support a variety of data types for both architecture design files and the simulation files. Sample file types include EnergyPlus Lighting Radiance and Contaminants CONTAM . APIs are a set of specifications for use as an interface by software routes components to communicate with each other to build software applications.

Data model data base layer sits below the layer of the data management services and comprises the database schema that define the database tables for storing and retrieving of data stored in the database e.g. using Structured Query Language SQL and or an XML Query Language Xquery http www.w3.org TR xquery .

Data Entities in one embodiment of the present disclosure include BIMUser BIMProject BIMRole UserProject ExternInfo FormatMapping XMLSchema NonXMLSchema MVDTemplate and BIMRepository . Each data entity has a name of the entity followed by the primary key of the entity and the rest of the data fields of the entity. A detailed description of each data field is provided regarding what type of data is stored in the field and how it is used in the present disclosure. The primary keys or foreign keys used in relationships are also highlighted. For instance example primary key for each data entity is annotated with character example foreign key is annotated with character in the figure.

BIMUser data entity defines a user known to the platform and contains basic information about the user. The user s password may be stored in a secure e.g. Security server and may not be duplicated here to avoid duplication and synchronization problems. UID Integer stores user ID of the user. ScreenName VARCHAR stores a display name for the user.

Email VARCHAR stores email of the user. MISC XML stores miscellaneous personal information which can include but not limited to the following First name Last name Title Company name Phone number contact address and comments. shows an example of the MISC XML schema definition for miscellaneous personal information. Table 1 shows a sample instance of the XML.

Referring to BIMProject data entity defines a BIM project project name owner who created the project fine grained project based access control list ACL such as by specific building element types e.g. Building Objects Model View Definitions Mechanical models etc. and project revision number. ProjectID Integer stores Project ID. ProjectName VARCHAR stores Project Name. OwnerID VARCHAR stores UID of the Project Owner. ACL XML stores or defines fine grained project based Access Control List definitions. shows an example of the Project ACL XML schema definition for project access control list. Table 2 shows a sample instance of the XML. An authorized user is allowed access based on their role and access is further defined by element types in the project e.g. building objects Model View Definitions mechanical or electrical models etc. ProjRevNo Integer stores a project revision number.

The BIMRole data entity defines a user s role in each project to which a user belongs. This entity specifies a role based project based fine grained access control of the data in the Hub. That is a user can have different roles and receive different access control for a different project. For example user Alex may be an architect in project A but a mechanical engineer in project B. Alex receives different sets of ACL based on his role in the project. RoleID Integer stores a role identifier. RoleName VARCHAR stores a role name e.g. architect mechanical engineer electrical engineer etc. UID Integer stores user identifier of the user. ProjectID Integer stores a project identifier this role is defined for.

This UserProject data entity links to both BIMUser and BIMProject data entities to form relationships which identify many to many relationships between the two data entities. That is one user can be the owner creator of multiple projects and one project can have multiple users. UID Integer stores a user ID of the user. ProjectID Integer stores a project ID.

The ExternInfo data entity stores any external information related to the project that may be needed to enable the format translation workflow from various BIM phases from design simulation to operations. ExtInfoID Integer stores an ID of the external information. ProjectID Integer stores a project ID. DataType VARCHAR stores auxiliary data type description e.g. weather data utility tariff tax code and any operational data etc. GISINFO DB2 GIS Extension stores locality information to enable location based query. URL VARCHAR stores uniform resource locator URL link that points to the information source. XMLSchemaID Integer stores extensible markup language XML Schema ID to link an XMLSchema table to locate a XML schema stored in the XML schema definition XSD field for Model Validation. CLOB Data CLOB store Document Based Auxiliary Data such as TMY2 TMY3 CSV Formatted NOAA Data and others. BLOB Data BLOB stores Binary Data.

FormatMapping data entity stores information used in format mapping. FormatID Integer stores a format ID. ProjectID Integer stores a project ID. FormatName VARCHAR stores name of file format e.g. IFCXML gbXML and others non xml e.g. IFC . XMLSchemaID Integer stores a link to an entry in the XMLSchema table to locate the XML schema stored in the XSD field for Model Validation. NXMLSchemaID Integer stores a link to an entry in the NonXMLSchema table to locate the schema stored in the Schema field for Model Validation.

XMLSchema data entity stores data related to XML Schema. XMLSchemaID Integer stores XML Schema ID. XMLSchemaName VARCHAR stores an XML Schema Name e.g. IFCXML 2x3 gbXML . XSD XSD stores XML Schema XSD for On line model validation.

NonXMLSchema data entity stores data related to non XML Schema. NXMLSchemaID Integer stores a non XML Schema ID. BIMSchemaName VARCHAR stores BIM non XML Schema Name e.g. IFC . Schema CLOB stores document based schema for Model validation e.g. IFC.

BIMRepository data entity is used to store all kinds of data related to files. An instance of BIMRepository can contain an input file for the format translation or an output file of a building simulation e.g. energy lighting airflow or contaminant simulation. If the file is used for the format translation the BIMRepository instance can point to a FormatMapping instance for the data format and point to an MVDTemplate instance that stores the information of a Model View Definition to be used for the format translation.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure depending on whether the data is stored locally in the BIMRepository or remotely on a file repository only one out of the four data fields is valid for a BIMRepository instance. That is if the data is to be stored remotely from an external file server like BIMServer the data should be specified as a URL link in the DataURL field to link to the data source. If the data is stored locally in the BIM enablement platform depending on the actual data type e.g. XML IFC or binary data one of the three data fields can be used XMLData CLOBData or BLOBData.

RepositoryID Integer stores an ID of the repository. ProjectID Integer stores a project ID. RepositoryName VARCHAR stores a repository name. ModelRevNo Integer stores a model revision number. FormatID Integer stores BIM format e.g. a pointer to a format mapping table that contains data of the exchange format both xml and non XML . Examples values of FormatID field may include 1 IFCXML 2 gbXML 3 IFC 4 other . . . . MVDID Integer stores an identifier that identifies an instance of MVDTemplate to be used for format translation by the file stored in the BIM repository. DataURL VARCHAR stores a URL link to file data stored in other file repository server e.g. BIMServer.org. XMLData XML stores XML based Building Information Model such IFCXML and gbXML. CLOBData CLOB stores document based BIM such as COLLADA IFC. BLOBData BLOB stores binary data such as AutoCAD Revit models.

MVDTemplate data entity stores data about an instance of Model View Definition to be used by the files data stored in the BIMRepository for format translation. MVDID Integer stores a Model View Definition ID. MVDName VARCHAR stores Model View Definition Names e.g. EnergyPlus Model View CONTAM Model View etc. SourceFormatID Integer stores a pointer to a source format mapping table that contains the data format of the source file both xml and non XML of the format translation. TargetFormatID Integer stores a pointer to a target format mapping table that contains the exchange format of the target file both xml and non XML of the format translation. DataExtractionDef XML stores XML definition of how data is to be extracted from the source files e.g. get data elements from a file repository server e.g. get IFC data elements from the BIMServer using parser and Java APIs using an ordered list of SQL Queries and X Queries from the file stored in an instance of BIMRepository. CLOBDataTemplate CLOB stores character based Model View Definition instance data. XMLTemplate XML stores an XML based Model View Definition instance data e.g. a list of IFCXML objects names and queries for a specific Model View Definition. XMLTemplate XML field also stores default values for incomplete BIM for a specific model view e.g. default R value for an unspecified window .

Details each of the twelve entity relationships in one embodiment of the present disclosure are described below. As described in the Table 3 for each relationship the source entity destination data entity the multiplicity of the source data entity and destination data entity and the key s used for connecting the two data entities in the relationship are specified. The number in the Relationship column is arbitrary used only for the purpose of identification of an individual relationship.

The following describes example usage scenario workflows using the above descried data model. One example of a usage scenario may be translating of design file in IFC format to contaminant simulation file .PRJ 

1. An administrator may create a user e.g. via the BIM enabling platform of the present disclosure creating an instance of the BIMUser data entity and populating the fields. For example the fields may be populated as follows 

2. A user may also create a project e.g. by creating an instance of the BIMProject data entity and or add to an existing one and add a project role in BIMRole data entity instance. For example the fields of the BIMProject instance may be populated as follows 

ACL Architect Read Write Update by Building Objects Model View Definitions Mechanical Engineers Read Write Update Mechanical models Read architectural design Model View Definitions 

3. A user may further add one or more external information such as weather data for multiple simulation runs utility tariff tax code and other information by creating or adding to an instance of the ExternInfo data entity. For example the fields of the ExternInfo instance may be populated as follows 

URL http www.underground.com blank spaces are inserted in the URL so that the text does not convert automatically to a hypertext link 

4. A user may also create and or link to a file format and schema e.g. IFC for instance by creating or adding to instances of the FormatMapping data entity and NonXMLSchema data entity. For example the fields of the FormatMapping instance may be populated as follows 

5. A user may also create an instance of MVDTemplate or use an existing one for IFC to CONTAM format translating e.g. by creating a new or using an existing instance of the MVDTemplate data entity. For example the fields of the MVDTemplate instance may be populated as follows 

6. A user may further create an input file by creating an instance of the BIMRepository data entity e.g. in which a URL points to BIMServer.org and an MVDTemplate instance. For example the fields of the BIMRepository instance may be populated as follows 

7. A user may also run the code using an input file specified in the ExternInfo instance extract IFC elements from BIMServer.org and transform using the MVDTemplate instance to produce an output CONTAM file.

Another example of a usage scenario may be translating of design file in IFCXML format to energy simulation file .IDF . The following may be performed via the BIM enabling platform and the data model of the present disclosure described above.

1. An administrator may create a user if not previously defined e.g. via the BIM enabling platform of the present disclosure creating an instance of the BIMUser data entity and populating the fields. For example the fields may be populated as follows 

2. A user may also create a project e.g. by creating an instance of the BIMProject data entity and or add to an existing one and add a project role in BIMRole data entity instance. For example the fields of the BIMProject instance may be populated as follows 

ACL Architect Read Write Update by Building Objects Model View Definitions Mechanical Engineers Read Write Update Mechanical models Read architectural design Model View Definitions 

3. A user may further add one or more external information such as weather data for multiple simulation runs utility tariff tax code and other information by creating or adding to an instance of the ExternInfo data entity. For example the fields of the ExternInfo instance may be populated as follows 

4. A user may also create and or link to a file format and schema e.g. IFC for instance by creating or adding to instances of the FormatMapping data entity and XMLSchema data entity. For example the fields of the FormatMapping instance may be populated as follows 

5. A user may also create an instance of MVDTemplate or use an existing one for IFCXML to IDF format translating e.g. by creating a new or using an existing instance of the MVDTemplate data entity. For example the fields of the MVDTemplate instance may be populated as follows 

6. A user may further create an input XML file stored in the repository by creating an instance of the BIMRepository data entity. For example the fields of the BIMRepository instance may be populated as follows 

7. A user may also run the code using an input file specified in the ExternInfo instance parse IFC elements to extract data and transform using the MVDTemplate instance to produce an output .IDF EP file.

Yet another example of a usage scenario may be translating file formats IFC to Radiance. There may be two ways to do the format translation to Radiance .RAD file 

1. Translate IFC to a Radiance file directly. This approach is similar to the IFC to EnergyPlus translation outlined above with modifications to items 5 to 7.

2. Translate IFC to EnergyPlus as outlined in the above described usage scenario and then to a Radiance file.

The following describes a data definition language DDL of the present disclosure in one embodiment defining the table schema of a database.

The following describes data management services application programming interfaces or APIs in one embodiment of the present disclosure. The functions are shown as example of those that enable interactions with one or more of the data entities this is not an exclusive list of APIs. The methodologies of the present disclosure however are not limited to only those functions.

The APIs may include functions that Add Get Update Delete a data entity e.g. BIMUser BIMRole BIMProject BIMRepository ACL FormatMapping ExternInfo MVDTemplate XMLSchema NonXMLSchema etc.

RESTful interfaces are described as follows. A subset of the above data management services APIs are exposed as RESTful interfaces which enables the data management services APIs to be accessible over the Web. The definition of the RESTful interfaces is provided in http www.ibm.com developerworks webservices library ws restful 

A system of the present disclosure may further comprise a user interface that communicates with users and uses the above described components to provide functions and or services to users to perform work related to BIM e.g. formation translation BIM workflow execution and others. A portal may comprise a user interface portal that enable all or part of the following functions provided by the data management services APIs to manipulate those data entities add get update delete and get data based on the relationships between the data entities. Some of the GUI portal functions may include at least the following five areas or more User Management Use BIMUser related APIs Fine grained Access control such as using BIMRole BIMUser BIMProject related APIs and assigning project based role based access ACL Project Management for instance using BIMProject BIMRepository ExternInfo related APIs and adding externInfo for the project Repository Management for Project such as using BIMProject BIMUser BIMRole BIMRepository ExternInfo related APIs creating Repository instances for the project revision control for the Repository instances model verification for the Repository instances and Application support e.g. Format translations for Projects workflow execution including managing schema and Model View Definition Template using XMLSchema NonXMLSchema FormatMapping MVDTemplate ExternInfo related APIs specifying the schema and Model View Definition Template for the Repository and querying BIM Objects for Format translation etc.

At a data model may be defined comprising data entities and entity relationships for enabling the interoperability and workflows. The data entities may comprise BIMUser BIMRole BIMProject UserProject ExternInfo FormatMapping XMLSchema NonXMLSchema MVDTemplate and BIMRepository. The entity relationships may comprise BIMUser and UserProject UserProject and BIMUser UserProject and BIMRole BIMProject and ExternInfo BIMProject and FormatMapping BIMProject and BIMRepository FormatMapping and XMLSchema FormatMapping and NonXMLSchema FormatMapping and MVDTemplate BIMRepository and FormatMapping BIMRepository and MVDTemplate ExternInfo and XMLSchema.

At a data definition language may be created for defining and creating a table schema of a database associated with the data model. The data definition language may comprise sequential query language statements that define and create database table definitions to store and retrieve data in the database for the BIM enablement platform.

At data management services and or application programming interfaces may be implemented for interacting with the data model. The data management services may comprise definitions of functions for User Project Role Repository ACL externInfo XMLSchema NonXMLSchema FormatMapping MVDTemplate BIM Object query APIs model verification AND revision control. The application programming interfaces may comprise interfaces for interacting with the data entities. The interfaces may comprise at least interfaces for adding getting updating and deleting data associated with the data entities.

At web services may be provided for interacting with the data model. For example RESTful interfaces may be provided. The RESTful interfaces may comprise Web interface definitions that enable selected one or more of the data management services and or application programming interfaces to be accessible via the Internet.

At a user interface module may be implemented that communicates with users and uses the BIM enablement platform architecture the data model the data definition language data management services and application programming interfaces to provide functions to the users to perform work related to building information management. The work related to building information management BIM may comprise format translation for example translations of input and output files of building design tools and building simulation tools. The work related to building information management may comprise BIM workflow execution e.g. from design to simulation. The user interface module may comprise at least a user management functionality fine grained access control functionality project management functionality repository management functionality and application support functionality.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure the end to end interoperability and workflows from building architecture design to one or more simulations may be provided over a distributed network of computing platforms e.g. over a cloud computing infrastructure. The examples of simulations may be energy lighting airflow and contaminant in building simulation.

The computer system may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The computer system may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

The components of computer system may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor . The processor may include one or more components of a BIM enablement platform that performs the methods described herein. The module may be programmed into the integrated circuits of the processor or loaded from memory storage device or network or combinations thereof.

Bus may represent one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system may include a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system and it may include both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory or others. Computer system may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media e.g. a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces.

Computer system may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces .

Still yet computer system can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system. Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages a scripting language such as Perl VBS or similar languages and or functional languages such as Lisp and ML and logic oriented languages such as Prolog. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The computer program product may comprise all the respective features enabling the implementation of the methodology described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out the methods. Computer program software program program or software in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements if any in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a program software or computer instructions embodied in a computer or machine usable or readable medium which causes the computer or machine to perform the steps of the method when executed on the computer processor and or machine. A program storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform various functionalities and methods described in the present disclosure is also provided.

The system and method of the present disclosure may be implemented and run on a general purpose computer or special purpose computer system. The terms computer system and computer network as may be used in the present application may include a variety of combinations of fixed and or portable computer hardware software peripherals and storage devices. The computer system may include a plurality of individual components that are networked or otherwise linked to perform collaboratively or may include one or more stand alone components. The hardware and software components of the computer system of the present application may include and may be included within fixed and portable devices such as desktop laptop and or server. A module may be a component of a device software program or system that implements some functionality which can be embodied as software hardware firmware electronic circuitry or etc.

The embodiments described above are illustrative examples and it should not be construed that the present invention is limited to these particular embodiments. Thus various changes and modifications may be effected by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

