---

title: Full-field breast ultrasound system and architechture
abstract: A modular, flexible architecture for offering full-field breast ultrasound (FFBU) functionality and general-purpose ultrasound functionality in a single system is described. A conventional, general-purpose ultrasound system is modified with an FFBU toolkit to create a dual-capability ultrasound system, the dual-capability ultrasound system being able to accommodate both general-purpose ultrasound functionality and FFBU functionality, using a single ultrasound engine. Among other advantages, real-world clinical environments may enjoy cost savings for initial system procurement, space savings on clinic floors, easier and less expensive system upgrades, and the ability to use a single system and user interface for both FFBU screening and for follow-up diagnosis, biopsy, etc. Among other advantages from an ultrasound manufacturer's perspective are the ability to quickly and/or more easily come to market with an FFBU-related offering by modifying their existing general-purpose ultrasound systems with FFBU toolkits to quickly create dual-capability ultrasound systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08747317&OS=08747317&RS=08747317
owner: U-Systems, Inc.
number: 08747317
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121126
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Application Ser. No. 10 560 200 filed Sep. 9 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 317 702 issued on Nov. 27 2012 which is a national stage of PCT International Application No. PCT US2004 19488 filed Jun. 18 2004 now published as WO 2004 112577 Jun. 18 2004 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 480 095 filed Jun. 20 2003 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter of this disclosure is also related to the subject matter of the following patent application U.S. Ser. No. 60 439 437 filed Jan. 9 2003 U.S. Ser. No. 60 429 728 filed Nov. 27 2002 U.S. Ser. No. 10 305 661 filed Nov. 27 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 103 205 issued Sep. 5 2006 U.S. Ser. No. 10 305 936 filed Nov. 27 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 597 663 issued Oct. 6 2009 U.S. Ser. No. 60 415 385 filed Oct. 1 2002 U.S. Ser. No. 10 160 836 filed May 31 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 556 602 issued Jul. 7 2009 International Application Ser. No. PCT US01 43237 filed Nov. 19 2001 now published as WO2002 0043801 U.S. Ser. No. 60 326 715 filed Oct. 3 2001 and U.S. Ser. No. 60 252 946 filed Nov. 24 2000 each of which is incorporated by reference herein. These applications are collectively referred to herein as the Incorporated FFBU Applications. 

This patent specification relates to medical imaging systems and processes. In particular the present invention relates to methods systems methods of doing business and architectures for full field breast ultrasound technology.

Full field breast ultrasound FFBU generally refers herein to the acquisition processing and or display of breast ultrasound information as described in one or more of the Incorporated FFBU Applications identified supra. Most generally the FFBU process includes acquiring volumetric ultrasound scans of a breast in a standard and repeatable manner processing the volumetric data to form thick slice images therefrom and displaying the thick slice images to a clinician. More preferably the FFBU process is used as an adjunct to conventional x ray mammography with the thick slice images corresponding to slab like regions of the breast substantially parallel to standard x ray mammogram view planes e.g. CC MLO and being displayed simultaneously with one or more x ray mammograms taken along those standard x ray mammogram view planes. The FFBU process is also highly amenable to computer aided detection CAD analysis with CAD algorithms being performed on the three dimensional volumetric ultrasound data the two dimensional thick slice images the x ray mammogram data or any combination thereof. Although directed primarily to forming the three dimensional ultrasound volumes from B mode scans the FFBU process can be amenable to a variety of different ultrasound based tissue imaging strategies including for example color Doppler power Doppler and vibrational resonance techniques.

In one or more of the Incorporated FFBU Applications configurations are described in which ultrasound engines are integral with the FFBU acquisition systems and their associated system control user interface systems. The ultrasound engines associated with those configurations are dedicated to FFBU operation only and are not part of regular general purpose ultrasound systems.

A problem can arise in that if a particular clinic wished to have both FFBU functionality and general purpose ultrasound functionality they would need to procure operate and maintain two separate systems having two separate ultrasound engines. In practical use the clinician would need to go back and forth between using the two separate systems for example using the FFBU for initial patient screening and then using the separate general purpose ultrasound system for follow up diagnosis biopsy or the like. From a manufacturing perspective there would need to be two different product design cycles implementation cycles etc. for the two distinct systems. Moreover if significant improvements were made for example in the capabilities of the ultrasound engine of the general purpose ultrasound system the manufacturer s would need to make and the clinics would need to buy two separate upgraded systems to enjoy these advancements in both the general purpose and FFBU systems.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a method and systems that at least partially obviates one or more of the impractical and or inefficient scenarios described above.

According to a preferred embodiment a modular flexible architecture is provided for offering full field breast ultrasound FFBU functionality and general purpose ultrasound functionality in a single system with improved practical implications for both real world clinical environments and real world ultrasound system manufacturing environments. A system method method of doing business and architecture are provided in which a conventional general purpose ultrasound system is modified with an FFBU toolkit to create a dual capability ultrasound system the dual capability ultrasound system being able to accommodate both general purpose ultrasound functionality and FFBU functionality using a single ultrasound engine. Among other advantages real world clinical environments may enjoy cost savings for initial system procurement space savings on clinic floors easier and less expensive system upgrades and the ability to use a single system and user interface for both FFBU screening and for follow up diagnosis biopsy etc. Among other advantages from an ultrasound manufacturer s perspective are the ability to quickly and or more easily come to market with an FFBU related offering by modifying their existing general purpose ultrasound systems with FFBU toolkits to quickly create dual capability ultrasound systems.

The present specification further relates to particular enhancements to an FFBU system whether it be a dual capability ultrasound system described above or a monolithic integrated FFBU system for improving volumetric ultrasound data acquisition and the quality of the resulting thick slice images near the skinline of the breast. In one preferred embodiment a pre formed gel block is provided that is specially shaped to fill in air gaps between the breast periphery and the upper and lower compressive members of an FFBU scanning device. The present specification further relates to FFBU system enhancements in the area of color Doppler imaging wherein color Doppler frames are acquired in real time for suspicious lesions or otherwise interesting regions of the breast identified from the initial B mode volumetric scans of the breast taken by the FFBU.

The GPUS comprises a first transducer port a second transducer port and a miscellaneous communications interface such as a USB Firewire RS 232 etc. . The miscellaneous communications interface is commonly a by product of most conventional system architectures that are based on a standard PC architecture e.g. systems with Intel Pentium class processors and Windows operating systems . The miscellaneous communications interface often goes unused although it is usually readily accessible via standard Windows operating system interfaces. In some cases even if the miscellaneous communications interface is not directly accessible on an exterior port of the GPUS it can be accessed indirectly by removing a side or rear panel of the GPUS which exposes therein PC based hardware having such a communications port. GPUS further comprises a conventional transducer connected to the first transducer port and user interface hardware display keyboard trackball mouse various extra key knob inputs etc. 

From a conceptual architecture viewpoint the GPUS comprises an ultrasound engine formed from i a hardware platform that is PC based usually with auxiliary boards plugged into a PCI or other system bus that perform specialty ultrasound hardware duties known in the art such as beamforming and ii proprietary ultrasound engine driver software that drives the specialty hardware via the PC based operating system. The OPUS further comprises higher level system control and data control software also running on the PC based system that accepts vector ultrasound data from the ultrasound engine manipulates the vector data into viewable ultrasound image data and otherwise manages the system. The GPUS further comprises user interface software also running on the PC based system that performs the ultimate formatting and outputting of the ultrasound image data and that receives user commands for controlling the overall GPUS .

Although provided to customers only in the form of monolithic blocks of executable code sitting inside the GPUS the ultrasound engine driver software the system and data control software and the user interface software is almost always designed and programmed separately in a modular fashion using object oriented programming techniques in languages such as C . As known in art for virtually all ultrasound system manufacturers the source code is naturally segregated in fashions identical or similar to that shown in . Indeed it is commonly the case that the ultrasound engine driver software is developed by an entirely different group of programmers than the system and data control software user interface software . The ultrasound engine driver software is exposed to the data control software by virtue of APIs application programming interfaces that define the methods and data objects that can be invoked to achieve the desired functionalities. In this manner provided that the APIs to the ultrasound engine remain well defined and properly called by the higher level routines the different software modules and can be developed improved and perfected separately and with greater efficiency than if treated as one big monolithic program.

Generally speaking the FFBU scanning apparatus is similar to at least one of those described in the Incorporated FFBU Applications supra. However in a preferred embodiment the FFBU scanning apparatus contains primarily only the mechanical scanning features of an FFBU system stepper motors fluid pumps compression plates transducer movement mechanisms etc. and control processor s that control these mechanical systems according to commands received over a communications cable via a communications port . FFBU scanning apparatus comprises a special FFBU transducer that plugs into the second transducer of the MGPUS via a connector and a conventional transducer cable . Notably the conventional ultrasound scanning engine portion of the MGPUS is unchanged from that of the GPUS and thinks that it is driving a conventional ultrasound probe even when it is driving the special FFBU transducer. The special FFBU transducer is contained within the upper and or lower breast compression housing of the compression scanning apparatus as described in the Incorporated FFBU Applications supra.

It is to be appreciated that the FFBU toolkit in other preferred embodiments is not required to have a mechanical scanning apparatus identical in structure and or scanning strategy similar to the particular mechanical scanning apparatus of . In other preferred embodiments the mechanical scanning process can be done using the other methods described in the Incorporated References that can mechanically obtain repeatable scans of the breast volume such as the supine patient adapter and the face down reservoir type adapters described in several of the Incorporated References.

The dual capability ultrasound system is formed by providing an ultrasound system manufacturer of the GPUS or a third party in privity therewith with an FFBU toolkit that allows quick and easy design and manufacture of the dual capability ultrasound system . Of course other business arrangements based on different sources combinations of the GPUS FFBU toolkit could readily be achieved in view of the present disclosure and are within the scope of the preferred embodiments. In one preferred embodiment the FFBU toolkit comprises the FFBU scanning apparatus the data transducer cables a computer program product that is preferably in source code format such as C and an FFBU toolkit interface software specification that defines APIs required to be invoked from the computer program product. An example of such software APIs is illustrated in .

The computer program product of the FFBU comprises a first module for FFBU system control mechanical control and timing of both the FFBU scanning apparatus and the ultrasound engine and data control consistent with the functionalities described in the Incorporated FFBU Applications supra. The computer program product of the FFBU further comprises a second module for driving a user interface for the FFBU functionality. The FFBU user interface can include outputs consistent with any of those described in the Incorporated FFBU Applications supra. In one preferred embodiment these FFBU outputs are displayed on a monitor provided in the GPUS user interface hardware while in another embodiment they are provided on a separate or additional display not shown . Optionally a real time CAD algorithm module can also be provided for performing real time CAD algorithms on the acquired data.

To properly integrate the FFBU toolkit with the GPUS it will be necessary for the builder of the dual capability ultrasound system to construct an engine dependent translation layer software based on the information provided in the FFBU toolkit interface software specification see e.g. together with a knowledge of the conventional ultrasound engine APIs of the GPUS . In an alterative preferred embodiment the provider of the FFBU toolkit is provided with the knowledge of the conventional ultrasound engine APIs of the GPUS and then creates the engine dependent translation layer software for providing with the FFBU toolkit. In still another preferred embodiment there is a joint development agreement between the builder of the dual capability ultrasound system and the provider of the FFBU toolkit to co develop the engine dependent translation layer software .

According to a preferred embodiment the dual capability ultrasound system can be switched in real time by the user clinician between i a regular mode of operation provided by the GPUS capabilities using modules to ii an FFBU mode that invokes modules instead. This is performed by switches and which operate in unison. The switches and can be controlled by a software switch invoked by a simple selection of an omnipresent and always on top soft button on the user display or can be controlled by a hardware switches located on the user display. From a software coding perspective it is expected that these switches are very easily implemented in one or two lines of code near the main entry point of the top level GPUS software module.

The special FFBU transducer referred to supra comprises a very long array e.g. 15 cm long of transducer elements. The FFBU transducer generally is much longer and has more elements than commonly used with GPUS . According to a preferred embodiment field programmable gate array FPGA logic is included in the FFBU transducer that provides a sliding window effect such that only a predetermined number of elements are active at any time along a subset of the length. After obtaining one or more lines of scan data associated with the present window position the window is moved by the FPGA logic responsive to commands from the ultrasound engine hardware and the process is repeated until the end of the array is reached. Notably the presence of a sliding window along the transducer length is transparent to the ultrasound engine and is handled by the timing circuitry of the FPGA in combination with the software module .

According to another preferred embodiment a pre formed gel block is provided that is specially shaped to fill in air gaps between the breast periphery and the upper and lower compressive members of an FFBU scanning device. This has been found to substantially improve volumetric ultrasound data acquisition near the skinline of the breast. In one preferred embodiment the gel material is similar to that described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 369 284 4 618 213 and 5 262 468 and referenced in U.S. Pat. No. 5 664 573 except that the gel is modified so as to be sufficiently stiff or non fluid in nature having the consistency of Jell O for example but being much more durable so that it can retain shapes illustrated for example in . The U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 369 284 4 618 213 5 262 468 and 5 664 573 are incorporated by reference herein. An FFBU clinic can be provided with an array of pre formed gel blocks for different breast sizes thicknesses and compressibilities.

The present specification further relates to FFBU system enhancements in the area of color Doppler imaging wherein color Doppler frames are acquired in real time for suspicious lesions or otherwise interesting regions of the breast identified from the initial B mode volumetric scans of the breast taken by the FFBU. In one preferred embodiment an operator of the FFBU system examines thick slice images and or volumetric data output in real time and then commands the FFBU scanning apparatus to return to a particular region and perform color Doppler scans thereon. The color Doppler frames are decimated with respect to both i two dimensional resolution within acquired slices and or ii distance between acquired slices as compared to the B mode scans such that any patient discomfort associated with an extended breast compression session is mitigated. A minimum acceptable color Doppler resolution should be maintained however. In another preferred embodiment CAD algorithms on the thick slice images and or volumetric data is automatically performed and upon location of a suspicious lesion or other interesting region the FFBU scanning unit is automatically sent back to those locations to perform Doppler scans without requiring any operator input.

Object. A flexible and detachable full field breast mechanical scanner hardware and system control software protocol

Features. Known full breast scanners such as a water bag breast scanner made by Labsonics and an immersion breast scanner made by Ausonics all used a dedicated ultrasound data acquisition system and dedicated ultrasound transducers. These systems integrated mechanical scanner and ultrasound system together to generate static longitudinal or cross section images it is very difficult to perform dynamic diagnostic examinations. This disclosure regards keeping the ultrasound system and mechanical scanner as separated units.

Ultrasound System. One or multiple full field breast transducers 70 mm are connected to the ultrasound system. The ultrasound image acquisition system controls the movement of transducer and synchronizes the ultrasound image acquisition. A static 3D full breast image data is acquired. A handheld transducer is connected to one of ultrasound system transducer ports. Because the ultrasound system user interface is not changed this hand held transducer can perform real time ultrasound breast exam

Full field breast mechanical scanner. The full field breast ultrasound transducers are mounted on the scanner. Scanner receives commands from the ultrasound system which synchronizes the transducer movement and image acquisition. Scanner sends status and scanner control parameters back to the ultrasound system. The status provides system diagnostic information. The control parameters can be used for breast image analysis. The full field breast ultrasound systems can be but are not limited to the following compression plate Mammography like breast scanner water bag breast scanner immersion breast scanner.

Full Field Breast Transducer. The transducer assembly consists of two major parts. Acoustic module which converts electrical signals to acoustic waves and vise versa. The module can be linear array linear and curved array phased array varying pitching array 1.5 D array or 2 D array. And a programmable multiplexer which can interface with different ultrasound systems to perform image acquisition.

Ultrasound beamformer independent software. In order to control full breast scanner from an ultrasound system as well as providing the capability of performing diagnostic handheld breast scans an ultrasound beamformer independent software package is developed. This software defines a generic interface from the application control software to the ultrasound beamformer. The application control software can interface to different beamformers by linking to the beamformer specific library developed to conform to the generic interface.

Seamless transition between automated full field breast and hand held diagnostic ultrasound scanning. The application software allows for seamless transition between these two modes of operation. The user interface provides the operator the ability to select between several transducers attached to different ports of the beamformer. Selecting a full field breast transducer associated with a motor in the full field breast mechanical scanner the default selection after system initialization activates the automated full field breast scan mode of operation. Selecting any other transducer activates the hand held diagnostic scan mode of operation. The latter mode of operation can also be activated on any transducer in service mode.

The advantages of the disclosed embodiments include the following. The ultrasound system and mechanical scanner are separated units which allows the mechanical scanner to be attached to different ultrasound systems. A hand held transducer can be used for diagnostic ultrasound exams without any conventional ultrasound system modifications. Acoustic module of full field breast transducers are independent of ultrasound systems. The interface to different ultrasound systems is provided by the programmable multiplexer inside the transducer. Linear and curved array and varying pitch array transducers increase field of view without increasing number of elements.

Color Doppler can be performed on the full breast. This can be done in following ways. After performing full breast scan compound thick slice images are generated. User can point to the lesion on the thick slice images then transducer can automatically move to the lesion area. Color Doppler ultrasound is performed to show lesion vascularity. More importantly Color Doppler is performed on the exact lesion detected by full breast scan. After a full breast scan is done and a lesion is detected a radiologist can use hand held transducer to scan lesion area while breast is in compression. This method gives more flexibility because a radiologist can move hand held transducer at different direction.

Breast diagnostic ultrasound can be performed after full breast scan. After a full breast scan is done and a lesion is detected. Patient can lay down on a bed a radiologist can use hand held transducer to perform a breast diagnostic ultrasound procedure . Full breast scan provides an accurate orientation where lesion is located.

In this section only compression plate full breast scanner is discussed. Full Field Breast scanning device and a conventional ultrasound system are separated units. Ultrasound system controls whole breast scan. The operator activates the machine so that a pair of plates applies pressure to the breast similar to a mammography machine. A soft and elastic gel pad is made in a horseshoe shape . It is placed between breast and compression plate. Gel pad can fill in between breast roll off area and compression plate. It makes contact between breast tissue and compression plate so that the breast roll off area can be imaged. For flatbreast tissue area gel pad is cut off breast can make direct contact with compression plate. Due to the acoustic property of gel pad adding gel pad may reduce image penetration and change breast tissue speckle pattern or image resolution. The horseshoe sharp of gel pad allows flat breast tissue area making a direct contact with compression plate which does not introduce image artifacts.

Once the breast has been immobilized between the plates the operator initiates the scan from ultrasound system. A computer controlled motor moves an ultrasound probe across one of the two plates. A 2D B Mode image is acquired by ultrasound system when the transducer transmits and receives ultrasound signals that pass through the plate and travel inside the breast. As the machine moves the probe a three dimensional image volume is collected.

In order to make a flexible and detachable Full Field Breast scanner which can interface with any conventional ultrasound system a set of hardware software and transducer interface protocol are created.

Electronic Interface. Standard hardware communication protocol is used to link Full Field Breast mechanical scanning device and conventional ultrasound system. The communication link can be serial links RS 232 or USB Firewire or local area network interface .

Transducer Interface. Because the ultrasound beam transmit and receive control schemes are different between conventional ultrasound systems in order to make connection from full breast ultrasound transducer to those ultrasound systems a programmable electronics device is embedded in transducer. This programmable device can use but not limited to the following control signals for communication Acoustic beam position Acoustic beam aperture size Start of Frame Start of transmit Start of receive Programming clocks Feedback data to ultrasound system.

Software interface. See . Ultrasound beamformer independent software generic control interface Probe insertion removal detection and notification Probe and application selection Scanning modality selection Ultrasound beam gain depth calibration Ultrasound beam lateral field of view control Ultrasound beam depth control Ultrasound tissue dependent acquisition parameters Ultrasound image position tagging Transducer parameter reprogramming.

Software interface. Mechanical Scanner Scanner calibration Scanner reset Move to X location Release compression Turn on pump X Turn off pump X Compression pressure reading Compression separation distance Compression plate angle Scanner status. illustrates components of an imaging system application program interface API for an off the shelf ultrasound engine according to a preferred embodiment.

Breast ultrasound adapter comprises an upper frame side walls and a bottom membrane forming a fluid reservoir volume for holding a water containing polymeric fluid or gel. As shown in breast ultrasound adapter has been placed over a breast and filled with fluid and the bottom membrane has conformally adapted to the shape of the breast . The fluid level should rise above the highest point of the breast . The bottom of an ultrasound probe is submerged in the fluid and is swept in a lateral direction across the breast as indicated in the bottom of the ultrasound probe remaining submerged during the lateral sweep. Preferably the bottom of ultrasound probe is maintained in a plane parallel to the fluid surface and does not contact the bottom membrane during the lateral sweep. Position sensors not shown are used to track the position of the ultrasound probe as it is swept usually by hand across the fluid surface. Preferably water containing polymeric gel water and or oil are used to improve the contact between the bottom membrane and the breast . Advantageously the breast is maintained in a substantially consistent position and in a consistent state of compression during the scanning process thereby facilitating consistency among the ultrasound slices forming the three dimensional image volume.

The breast ultrasound adapter may comprise any of a variety of material configurations that facilitate the presence of an open fluid reservoir above the breast of a supine patient the fluid reservoir having a lower surface that conforms to the breast shape such that an ultrasound probe is acoustically coupled to the breast skin surface when immersed in the fluid. By way of example upper frame is preferably a rigid or semi rigid compression molded silicone rubber material or an equivalent material such that the breast ultrasound adapter can be supported and moved by manipulating the upper frame even when full of fluid. Side walls may also be rigid or semi rigid. In the embodiment of side walls are semi rigid and sufficiently flexible such that they are conformal with the patient s skin surface along points of intersection therewith. However in alternative preferred embodiments the side walls do not contact the skin surface directly and therefore may be rigid. In this case the bottom membrane protrudes downward from the side walls and hangs down like a plastic bag over the breast when filled with fluid. In still other preferred embodiments the side walls are not present at all and the bottom membrane hangs down directly from the upper frame over the breast when filled with fluid. In preferred embodiments in which the side walls do not contact the skin surface directly or are not present the breast ultrasound adapter is supported by the upper frame and laid gently over the breast which does not support its entire weight. The bottom membrane preferably comprises a flexible watertight conforming material. An at least partially distensible characteristic assists in ensuring bubble free contact with the breast skin. Suitable materials include protective latex synthetic elastomers cellophane or other protective sheath type materials described in U.S. Pat. which is incorporated by reference herein. The respective pieces are fastened together by a suitable adhesive such as silicone RTV.

Finally breast ultrasound adapter further comprises a fluid transport opening and fluid conduit for coupling to a gravity feed reservoir not shown that is functionally similar to an intravenous IV fluid container. In accordance with a preferred embodiment the gravity feed reservoir is raised either by hand or by an automated mechanical assembly to introduce fluid into the breast ultrasound adapter after it has been placed on a patient s breast. Following the scan procedure the gravity feed reservoir is lowered to cause fluid to drain out thereby emptying the breast ultrasound adapter . The vertical position of the gravity feed reservoir may also be adjusted used to regulate the level of the fluid during the scan.

Whereas many alterations and modifications of the present invention will no doubt become apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art after having read the foregoing description it is to be understood that the particular embodiments shown and described by way of illustration are in no way intended to be considered limiting. By way of example it is to be appreciated that several ultrasound system ports can be dedicated to FFBU operation to connect more than one FFBU transducer. For example a first FFBU transducer on the first port can be for a top side scan while the second FFBU transducer on the second port can be used for the bottom side scan with images from both being sent to the viewing station. Therefore reference to the details of the preferred embodiments are not intended to limit their scope which is limited only by the scope of the claims set forth below.

