---

title: Methods and apparatus for use in controlling connections to wireless networks
abstract: In one illustrative example, a wireless device receives a communication policy from a private network. The communication policy includes allowable service provider identifiers (e.g. domain names, realms) corresponding to allowable service providers. The wireless device stores these identifiers in its memory. When roaming, the wireless device encounters a wireless network (“hotspot”) and receives via the wireless network one or more reachable service provider identifiers corresponding to one or more reachable service providers. In a work mode of operation, the wireless device allows a connection to the wireless network based on a match between one of the allowable and reachable service provider identifiers, but otherwise disallows the connection. The communication policy may additionally or alternatively include device types for P2P networks, and/or allowable private network identifiers (e.g. ESSIDs), and/or allowable hotspot aggregator service identifiers or names, for use in the work mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09167512&OS=09167512&RS=09167512
owner: BLACKBERRY LIMITED
number: 09167512
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121213
---
The present disclosure relates generally to techniques in devices which are configured for wireless communications and more particularly to techniques far use in controlling connections to wireless networks for such devices.

A wireless communication device such as a portable wireless telephony device or smartphone may be configured to communicate in wireless communication networks. For example such a device may communicate via access points APs of wireless local area networks WLANs in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards or the like. The device may communicate in WLANs which are private WLANs of an enterprise or public WLANs such as hotspots. Such a device may additionally communicate using peer to peer communication techniques for example being certified as a Wi Fi Direct device in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification.

There is a need for efficiently controlling connectivity to such wireless networks in these and similar environments.

Methods and apparatus for controlling connectivity to wireless networks are described. In one illustrative example a wireless device receives a communication policy from a private network. The communication policy includes a list of one or more allowable service provider identifiers corresponding to one or more allowable service providers The allowable service provider identifiers may include for example one or more Passpoint realms. The wireless device stores these allowable service provider identifiers in memory While roaming the wireless device receives via a wireless network a hotspot one or more reachable service provider identifiers corresponding to one or more reachable service providers which provide service via the wireless network. In a first work mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection to the wireless network for communications based on identifying a match between one of the first service provider identifiers and one of the reachable service provider identifiers but otherwise disallows the connection. In a second personal mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection to any suitable network or alternatively to a wireless network based on identifying a match between a second service provider identifier stored in memory and one of the reachable service provider identifiers.

In another illustrative example the communication policy may include a list of one or more allowable device types for peer to peer P2P wireless network communications. The wireless device stores in memory the one or more allowable device types. Then the wireless device receives a device type from and corresponding to a P2P device. The wireless device allows a connection with the P2P device based on identifying a match between one of the allowable device types and the device type received from the P2P device. On the other hand the wireless device disallows a connection with the P2P device based on identifying that none of the allowable device types match the device type received from the other wireless device. In this technique the wireless device may operate in a first work mode of operation. In a second personal mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection with any suitable P2P device or alternatively based on identifying a match between one or more other allowable device types and the device type received from the other wireless device.

Example Environment. To illustrate one environment within which the techniques of the present disclosure may be practiced illustrates a wireless communication device which may communicate in a communication system . In the communication system wireless device may communicate with one or more wireless communication networks. For example wireless device may communicate with a wireless communication network which is a wireless local area network WLAN . Here wireless network and wireless device may operate in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards.

In this example wireless network has a plurality of wireless access points APs and for wireless communications with wireless device . WLANs may be identified by a wireless device with use of a wireless network identifier which is communicated from the WLAN. The wireless network identifier may be for example a Set Service Identifier SSID or Extended SSID ESSID . In this example wireless network includes one or more servers a redirect server and a gateway . Server may provide data applications and or functionality for communication services for wireless device .

Wireless network may be a public Wi Fi hotspot for public use and include what may be referred to as a captive portal or walled garden. For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway is configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality as well as to permit or deny external access outside of wireless network to Internet . To do this gateway has a set of IP address filters which define a set of addresses that are permissible impermissible if any at all for access by devices. Access by a device depends on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization.

Typically when a request by a device in wireless network is made prior to proper authorization gateway is configured to redirect the request to redirect server . In response redirect server is configured to respond to wireless device to provide data for producing information e.g. Web page information which is rendered in a visual display of wireless device via a Web browser application. The information may solicit a user response. For example the information may solicit a user registration or login with user fields for entering a user name and or password information. Gateway identifies whether the received user response is sufficient e.g. whether the user name and password match prestored user name and password information whether the user payment is accepted whether the user acceptance is confirmed etc. . If the user response is deemed sufficient gateway permits access to the data applications and or functionality in or outside of wireless network .

Wireless device may also operate for communications in other different wireless networks such as a wireless network which is also a WLAN. In this example wireless network is a private communication network of an enterprise e.g. an organization a company a corporation etc. of wireless device . Similar to wireless network wireless network has a plurality of wireless APs and one or more servers and a gateway . For devices connected in wireless network via one of wireless APs and gateway may be configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality offered via wireless network depending on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization. For devices attempting to access wireless network via Internet gateway is configured to permit or deny internal access to the data applications and or functionality in wireless network .

Such wireless networks e.g. infrastructure WLANs may provide or allow access to various data and communication services to its terminals. For example the wireless networks may provide for communication access to Internet via the Web browser application or voice telephony communication service with use of Voice over IP VoIP communication or other communication services. For push type data or message synchronization services for example wireless device may be enabled to maintain data synchronization with a server e.g. server for user data of an application associated with a user account. The application of wireless device and the server may be or include for example an electronic mail e mail application program for the communication of e mail messages.

Wireless device may be additionally configured to access communication services via a Public Land Wireless Network PLMN e.g. a cellular telecommunications network . PLMN includes a core network a plurality of base station controllers such as a base station controller BSC coupled to core network and a plurality of base stations such as a base station BS and a base station coupled to associated BSCs . Core network BSC and BS operate in a conventional fashion as well documented. Other PLMNs in the environment have a similar or the same architecture as PLMN . For communication with PLMNs wireless device may be configured in accordance with one or more cellular telecommunication standards such as Global Systems for Mobile GSM and or General Packet Radio Service GPRS technologies. However such wireless device may additionally or alternatively operate in accordance with other such cellular standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE or EVolution Data Only EV DO for CDMA technologies as a few examples.

Further in additional to being operative for communications with infrastructure WLANs e.g. IEEE 802.11 infrastructure WLANs wireless device additionally or alternatively communicates using peer to peer communication techniques for example in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification and or be certified as a Wi Fi Direct device.

Accordingly illustrating further in wireless device and one or more other wireless devices and in may be operative to establish Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections with each other in a Wi Fi P2P wireless network. Here one of the communicate devices may be configured to enter into an AP mode of operation so that other communication devices may associate with them for direct RF communications therebetween. An AP mode of operation which may be referred to as a wireless AP mode or the like provides a benefit due to the high data rates available over MAN links. Here again data may be communicated directly between the wireless devices without the data traversing any wireless network infrastructure where one of the devices is set to operate or serve as an AP switching operation from as an end terminal and the other device operates as an end terminal to associate and connect with the AP i.e. wireless device operating as an AP for communications. Wireless device may operate such that when in the AP mode of operation with other communication devices and it also operates as a client with another AP.

Reference will now be made to which illustrates one example of a schematic block diagram of wireless device . In the illustrated example wireless device is a communication device and more particularly is a mobile communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and configured to communicate with other computer systems e.g. via the Internet . It will however be appreciated that wireless device may take other forms.

Depending on the functionality provided by wireless device in various examples wireless device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. Wireless device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device.

Wireless device includes a controller including one or more processors such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of wireless device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor is communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker and or electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown and or a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display an orientation subsystem memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a near field communications NEC subsystem a short range wireless communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some examples wireless device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface Le. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In at least some examples the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example in at least some examples the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame of which surrounds the display . In such example the frame of may be referred to as an active frame since it is capable of acting as an input interface . In at least some examples the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of wireless device .

As noted above in some examples wireless device may include a communication subsystem which allows wireless device to communicate over wireless network . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to wireless device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on wireless network in which wireless device is intended to operate.

In at least some examples wireless device may communicate with any one of a plurality of stations or access points APs of wireless network within its geographic coverage area. Wireless device may send and receive communication signals over wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed Signals received by the antenna through wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some examples the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. Wireless device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on wireless device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of wireless device by providing for information or software downloads to wireless device other than through wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto wireless device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

In at least some examples wireless device also includes a device orientation subsystem including at least one orientation sensor which is connected to the processor and which is controlled by one or a combination of a monitoring circuit and operating software. The orientation sensor detects the orientation of the device or information from which the orientation of the device can be determined such as acceleration. In some examples the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element and converted into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

An orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of wireless device . The orientation data in at least some examples specifies the orientation of the device relative to the gravitational field of the earth.

In some examples the orientation subsystem may include other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometers. For example in various examples the orientation subsystem may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some examples the device orientation subsystem may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

Wireless device may in at least some examples include a near field communications NFC subsystem . The NFC subsystem is configured to communicate with other wireless devices and or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC is a set of short range wireless technologies which typically require a distance of 4 cm or less for communications. The NFC subsystem may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna.

Wireless device may include a microphone and or one or more speakers. In at least some examples wireless device may include a plurality of speakers . For example in some examples wireless device may include two or more speakers . The two or more speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. That is in at least some examples wireless device may include a first speaker and a second speaker and the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another within wireless device . In at least some examples the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker of the electronic device. In such example the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display. In at least some examples each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

Wireless device may also include one or more cameras . The one or more cameras may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs or motion video. In at least some examples wireless device includes a front facing camera . A front facing camera is a camera which is generally located on a front face of wireless device . The front face is typically the face on which a display is mounted. That is the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of wireless device where the camera is directed. The front facing camera may be located anywhere on the front surface of the electronic device for example the camera may be located above or below the display . Alternatively or additionally camera may be located on a rear face of wireless device . The camera may be a fixed position camera which is not movable relative to the display of wireless device and or the housing of wireless device . In such examples the direction of capture of the camera is always predictable relative to the display and or the housing. In at least some examples the camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face.

In at least some examples wireless device includes an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In at least some examples the EM radiation source is configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the side of the electronic device which is associated with a camera of that wireless device . For example where the camera is a front facing camera wireless device may be configured to emit electromagnetic radiation from the front face of wireless device . That is in at least some examples the electromagnetic radiation source is configured to emit radiation in a direction which may visible by the camera. That is the camera and the electromagnetic radiation source may be disposed on wireless device so that electromagnetic radiation emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source is visible in images obtained by the camera.

In some examples the electromagnetic radiation source may be an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit infrared radiation. In at least some examples the electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be a camera which is configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the electromagnetic radiation source . Accordingly in at least some examples the camera is configured to capture at least some electromagnetic radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some examples wireless device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or BLUETOOTH BLUETOOTH is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their wireless device to the host computer system via a USB cable or BLUETOOTH connection traffic that was destined for wireless network is automatically routed to wireless device using the USB cable or BLUETOOTH connection. Similarly any traffic destined for wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable BLUETOOTH connection to the host computer system for processing.

Wireless device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in wireless device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides a regulated voltage V to the circuitry for powering wireless device .

Wireless device includes a short range communication subsystem which provides for wireless communication between wireless device and other wireless devices . The short range communication subsystem may be used to provide a preferred device mode between wireless device and another wireless device which may in at least some examples be a wireless device which is the same or similar to wireless device discussed with reference to . in at least some examples the short range communication subsystem is a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a BLUETOOTH communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Wireless device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example is the flash memory . In various examples the data includes service data including information required by wireless device to establish and maintain communication with wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on wireless device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of wireless device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

Wireless device may in some examples be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of wireless device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over wireless network .

In the voice communication mode wireless device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. a voice communication module and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on wireless device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications such as device mode module . In the example of the device mode module is implemented as a stand alone application . However in other examples the device mode module could be implemented as part of the operating system or another application .

The software applications on wireless device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications will normally be installed on wireless device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto wireless device through wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

Example Smartphone Electronic Device. Referring now to a front view of an example wireless device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to execute third party applications which are stored on the smartphone.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example illustrated the smartphone includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the smartphone so that it is viewable at a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the smartphone. In the example illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example smartphone also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at the front side of the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a speaker . In the example illustrated the smartphone includes a single speaker which is disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other examples the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in at least some examples the smartphone may include a second speaker which is disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width i.e. the orientation illustrated in .

The example smartphone also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the phone to their face to converse on the smartphone.

The example smartphone also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The example smartphone also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Example Tablet Electronic Device. The wireless device may be a tablet computer tablet one of which is illustrated in . Tablet computer of FIG may include many of the same features and components of the smartphone of . However tablet computer of is generally larger than the smartphone of . Tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. Tablet computer includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

Tablet computer includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within tablet computer so that it is viewable at a front side of tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In the example illustrated the display is framed by the housing with use of a frame which surrounds the display . The frame is portion of the housing which provides a border around the display . In at least some examples the frame is an active frame . That is the frame has a touch sensitive overlay which allows wireless device to detect a touch applied to the frame thereby allowing the frame to act as an input interface of .

The example tablet computer includes a plurality of speakers . In the example illustrated the tablet includes two speakers . The two speakers are disposed on opposing sides of the display . More particularly when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers is disposed on a right side of the display and one of the speakers is disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers are disposed on the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone is vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation illustrated in . The microphone may be located in other locations in other examples.

The example tablet computer also includes a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation i.e. the orientation of . The front facing camera is located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer .

The example tablet computer also includes an electromagnetic radiation source . The electromagnetic radiation source is disposed on the front side of tablet computer . In this orientation electromagnetic radiation which is produced by the electromagnetic radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of tablet computer . Such electromagnetic radiation or the projection of electromagnetic radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Although a specific wireless device has just been described any suitable wireless communication device or terminal may be part of the methods and apparatus which will be described in fuller detail below. Also although the description of the architecture relates to a specific example for illustration where the wireless network or WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network different environments may be applicable as well. The wireless network may be a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 as a few examples.

Example Wireless Network Configurations Connections. is an illustrative representation of a part of the communication system of which illustrates different types of wireless network configurations which may involve wireless device . Wireless networks and are WLANs of the traditional WLAN infrastructure type which typically provide for external network connectivity as described earlier in relation to . For example wireless networks and are configured to provide or facilitate access to the Internet or other communication network such as a public communication network for wireless device when connected therewith. In this case wireless device may make use of its WLAN profiles for connecting with such WLANs.

Other wireless networking configurations include Wi Fi peer to peer P2P wireless networking configurations. For example in it is shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless connection with a display device or monitor which includes a wireless transceiver . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a streaming media application or a display or presentation application.

It is also shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with a printer device which includes a wireless transceiver . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a print application or a facsimile application.

Even further it is shown that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection with a tablet which includes a wireless transceiver . An example tablet was previously shown and described in relation to . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for an applications such as for example a bridge or bridging application where wireless device is further configured for cellular telecommunications e.g. equipped with a cellular transceiver but tablet is not. In such application tablet is able to achieve external network e.g. Internet connectivity being connected to wireless device for communications via the cellular telecommunication network.

It is further shown in that wireless device may establish a Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection in an ad hoc wireless network which includes one or more other wireless devices and . Such Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection may be suitable for applications such as for example a file sharing application a conference meeting application a remote control application or a game or gaming application. In many instances such ad hoc wireless networks provide no external network connectivity.

When wireless device is connected as such using one or more Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections data may be communicated directly between wireless device and the other devices Le. without the data traversing any fixed wireless network infrastructure .

Profiles For Applications Which Make Use Of Wi Fi P2P Wireless Connections. As described earlier wireless device has different types of applications stored therein. These applications may include as examples a messaging application a voice telephony application a Web browsing application a streaming media application a file sharing application a game application a printer application a facsimile application a display or presentation application a military application as examples. Wireless device is optimized to establish the appropriate wireless networks based on which type of application is invoked.

Referring ahead to an illustrative representation of another portion of memory of wireless device is shown. Memory is shown to store a plurality of profiles for wireless networking. The profiles include one or more profiles associated with WLAN infrastructure networks and or one or more profiles associated with applications and or services which utilize Wi Fi P2P wireless network connections. In profiles are shown to include profiles and whereas profiles are shown to include profiles and . Profiles may be or be referred to as WLAN profiles whereas profiles may be or be referred to as Wi Fi P2P wireless networking profiles or Wi Fi Direct profiles.

Each one of profiles is associated with a particular WLAN infrastructure network and includes a plurality of parameters and or properties for accessing the particular MAN. The WLAN information may include an identification which identifies the WLAN e.g. a SSID or ESSID . The WLAN information may also include authentication and or security information for obtaining access to the WLAN e.g. a network key passkey security key etc. One of the WLANs appropriate WLAN from profiles will be selected for communication when available as prioritized in a prioritized list of the profiles . When not connected in a WLAN the wireless device normally operates to search for WLANs identified in its stored profiles . conversely the wireless device normally refrains from searching for and communicating in WLANs other than those WLANs identified in stored profiles .

On the other hand each one of profiles is associated with one of the applications and or services which utilizes a particular type and or configuration of Wi Fi P2P wireless network or Wi Fi Direct network . Each one of profiles includes parameters and or properties associated with establishing the particular type and or configuration of Wi Fi P2P wireless network for the application and or service. Profiles may be created viewed updated enabled and disabled.

Properties in profiles may include the following. Properties may include a device type property which indicates a device type of the device for the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection to be established. The device type may be the device type that is being searched for in the discovery. Note that there may be two device types specified in the profile a primary device type and a secondary device type. The device types may be or include the appropriate device types in the Wi Fi Direct Network as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex B thereof . The device types may be or include the predefined values as set forth therein. The device type may be or include category identification ID and or subcategory identification ID . Examples of such types are as follows a computer an input device a printer a camera a display monitor a gaming device an audio device a multimedia device or a telephone device.

Properties may additionally or alternatively include an advertised device type property which indicates the device type of wireless device . The advertised device type may be the device type to be advertised by wireless device . Note that there may be two advertised device types specified in the profile a primary advertised device type and a secondary advertised device type. The advertised device types may be or include the appropriate device types in the Wi Fi Direct Network as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex B thereof . The device types may be or include the predefined values as set forth therein. The advertised device type may be or include category identification ID and or subcategory identification ID . Examples of such types are as follows a computer an input device a printer a camera a display monitor a gaming device an audio device a multimedia device or a telephone device.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a service type property which indicates a service type which identifies the service associated with the device. For example the service types may be or include the appropriate service types as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex E thereof . Examples of such types are as follows a file sharing service or a printing service. Alternatively examples of such types are as follows Apple File Sharing AFP service or AFP over TCP service or IP Printing IPP Bonjour service.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a discovery mode property which indicates a mode utilized for the discovery of devices for the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection. The discovery mode property may be set to one of the following a triggered mode of discovery or a periodic mode of discovery. Alternatively the discovery mode may be set to one of the following a triggered mode of discovery a periodic mode of discovery or a Group Owner GO mode of discovery.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a persistent property or indication which indicates whether or not the Wi Fi P2P wireless network is persistent. If the network is persistent when an application is opened or activated the wireless device connects to a previously established Wi Fi P2P wireless network.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include a coexistence indication or property which indicates whether the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection associated with this profile may be maintained while the wireless device operates as a client in an infrastructure network. Properties may additionally or alternatively include another coexistence indication or property which indicates whether the Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection associated with this profile may be maintained while maintaining another Wi Fi P2P wireless network connection.

Properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include an application name is the name of the application associated with the profile. Relatedly properties in profiles may additionally or alternatively include an application link or address pointer to the application in memory of the wireless device.

In general the wireless device which performs the technique of is configured to operate as shown in the simple state diagram of in either a first mode of operation or a second mode of operation . The first mode of operation may be a work mode of operation and the second mode of operation may be a personal mode of operation. In some embodiments the first and second modes of operation and are mutually exclusive modes of operation. In the first mode of operation the wireless device operates to allow allowable network connections indicated for the first mode of operation and disallows or prohibits most if not all other connections. In the second mode of operation the wireless device may operate to allow allowable network connections indicated for the second mode of operation. The user interface of the wireless device may provide a setting for the user to select one of these operating modes or . Additionally or alternatively applications may be associated with the first or the second mode of operation and upon its execution the appropriate operating mode is established.

Referring now to at a start block the wireless device receives an IT policy from a private e.g. enterprise network step of . The private network may include one or more wireless networks associated with and or operating by an enterprise e.g. an organization a company a corporation etc. associated with the wireless device and or the user thereof. For example see e.g. the discussion in relation to WLAN of . The wireless device may receive the IT policy wirelessly via the wireless network or alternatively over a wired connection with a computer of the private network as a few examples.

In general an IT policy defines the permissions restrictions and or limitations for communications or connections of a communication device. Such permissions restrictions and or limitations may be based on a policy of a group entity or enterprise. The IT policy may be more generally referred to as a communication policy or simply just a policy. Policy data is or includes data of the policy which controls permits restricts and or limits the communications or connections. The policy data is programmed in the communication device to maintain such control control that typically cannot be overridden by the user.

In particular the IT policy may include a list of one or more allowable network identifiers corresponding to one or more allowable wireless networks to select for connection in the first mode of operation step A of . These allowable network identifiers may be or include allowable service set identifiers SSIDs or extended SSIDs ESSIDs which identify allowable private WLANs e.g. of an enterprise . Each identifier may be associated with WLAN profile information which is also received in the IT policy. That is the IT policy includes one or more WLAN profiles corresponding to allowable wireless networks to connect to in the first mode of operation where each WLAN profile includes an allowable network identifier e.g. SSID ESSID . See e.g. the discussion in relation to profiles of .

When programmed in the memory of the wireless device WLAN profiles for use in the first work mode of operation may be marked with an indication e.g. an indicator bit to identify whether the WLAN is for use in the first mode of operation. WLAN profiles for use in the second mode of operation which may be programmed using techniques other than IT policy control are not marked with such indication or may be marked with an indication for use in the second mode of operation.

Additionally or alternatively the IT policy may include a list of one or more allowable service provider identifiers corresponding to one or more allowable service providers to reach in public WLANs or hotspots in the first mode of operation step B of . These allowable service provider identifiers may be or include allowable PLMN IDs domain names realms Network Address Identifiers NAIs or NAI realms etc.

Also additionally or alternatively the IT policy may include a list of one or more allowable device types to select for connection in peer to peer P2P networks in the first mode of operation step C of . P2P capable devices advertise their device type during operation some examples of device types are computers such as servers or PCs input devices such as keyboards printers cameras network infrastructure such as access points APs and telephones such as smartphones. As described earlier above the device types may be or include the appropriate device types in the Wi Fi Direct Network as described in the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification e.g. in Annex B thereof . The device type may be or include a category identification ID a subcategory identification ID or both.

The wireless device programs the information from the IT policy in its memory for use in connectivity control in the first mode of operation step of . In general the allowable wireless network identifiers e.g. allowable SSIDs or ESSIDs will direct connections to allowable private enterprise WLANs the allowable service provider identifiers e.g. allowable realms will direct connections to allowable hotspots and the allowable device types will direct connections to allowable P2P networks.

The IT policy received in step may include allowable service provider identifiers which may include allowable cellular operator identifiers e.g. PLMN IDs domain names realms or other suitable identifiers. A PLMN ID may be or include a combination of Mobile Country Code MCC and Mobile Network Code MNC corresponding to the provider. If the roaming partner for a hotspot is a cellular operator it is identified by its MCC MNC pair. Alternatively a domain name or Network Address Identifier NAI may be utilized the NAI realm for example attwireless.com . Finally the service provider identifiers may be or include Organizational Identifiers OIs for a Roaming Consortium RC . An OI identifier uniquely identifies the organization or server provider. Service providers may register for an OI in a database maintained by the relevant associated organization.

In some embodiments the allowable service providers for the first mode of operation are reachable in hotspots configured in accordance with a protocol for facilitating automated connection for service. In this case the public WLANs may be WiFi Passpoint Certified in accordance with the Wi Fi Alliance Passpoint certification or specification e.g. the Wi Fi Alliance Passpoint 2.0 Specification . The information in the IT policy may be set to limit the wireless device s selection of hotspots or service providers to those configured in accordance with the protocol for facilitating automated connection for service.

Note that for the second mode of operation assuming that it is indeed a personal mode of operation the user may have freedom to connect with any suitable network or device of his or her choice not limited to the IT policy information. Alternatively or additionally the wireless device may store or program information in memory for use for the second mode of operation similar to that described above in relation to . Thus connections in the second mode of operation may be those based on other stored network identifiers e.g. SSIDs ESSIDs in other WLAN profiles service provider identifiers allowable device types for P2P networks or connections or combinations of the above.

Referring now to FIG is a flowchart for describing the second part of the method for use in controlling connectivity to wireless networks. The second part of the method of may be performed after the first part described above in relation to . The method of may be performed by wireless device described in relation to . The techniques described in relation to the flowchart may be performed by one or more controllers or processors of the wireless device along with its wireless or RF transceiver. A computer program product which may embody the technique may include a computer readable medium e.g. memory of the communication device computer disk CD ROM etc. having computer instructions stored therein which are executable by the one or more processors of the wireless device for performing the technique.

Beginning at a start block of while roaming the wireless device performs scanning operations or otherwise monitors or operates to identify one or more wireless networks or devices in its geographic region step of . The wireless device may encounter one or more private enterprise networks step of one or more public networks or hotspots step of and or one or more P2P devices or networks step of .

Here the wireless device may scan in a passive mode or an active mode of operation. In the passive mode the wireless device receives beacons from surrounding wireless networks and these beacons include network identifiers e.g. SSIDS ESSIDs which identify the networks. In the active mode the wireless device sends probe requests and receives probe responses in response these probe responses include the network identifiers which identify the networks. For hotspots beacons and probe responses may also include reachable service provider identifiers which identify the reachable service providers via the networks. Note further that the wireless device may perform P2P discovery operations such as operations in a scan phase or a find phase etc. to identify one or more P2P networks or devices. The wireless device receives information from these P2P networks or devices including a device type which identifies the type of device.

When the wireless device is considering private enterprise networks step of the wireless device will scan for and connect with wireless networks that are suitable for and correspond to the first mode or the second mode of operation. As the wireless device may include WLAN profiles saved in its memory see discussion in relation to these profiles may correspond to the information received in the IT policy see discussion in relation to step of . Here WLAN profiles for use in the first mode of operation may be marked with an indication which is indicative of use in the first mode of operation e.g. an indicator bit . WLAN profiles for use in the second mode of operation are not marked with such indication or may be marked with an indication which is indicative of use in the second mode of operation.

The wireless device identifies whether operating in the first mode or the second mode of operation step of . When in the first mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection to a wireless network identified by a network identifier that matches an allowable network identifier associated with indicated to be for the first mode of operation step of . The wireless device disallows prohibits or otherwise fails to consider a connection to a wireless network identified by a network identifier that fails to match any of the allowable network identifiers. Conversely when in the second mode of operation the wireless device may allow any suitable connection alternatively the wireless device allows a connection to a wireless network identified by a network identifier that matches an allowable network identifier associated with and indicated to be for the second mode of operation step of .

In some embodiments the logic from steps and is combined such that the wireless device scans only for network identifiers that are indicated to be for e.g. in or associated with the corresponding WLAN profile the first mode of operation. If the scanning operation is limited to such networks then the wireless device will fail to see and connect with those networks.

When the wireless device is considering public networks or hotspots step of the wireless device will scan for and connect with hotspots that are suitable for and correspond to the first mode or the second mode of operation. The wireless device identifies whether it is operating in the first mode or the second mode of operation step of . When in the first mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection to a hotspot which has a reachable service provider that matches an allowable service provider associated with indicated to be for the first mode of operation step of . The wireless device disallows prohibits or otherwise fails to consider a connection to a wireless network having reachable service providers that fail to match any of the allowable network identifiers. Conversely when in the second mode the wireless device may allow a connection to any suitable wireless network alternatively the wireless device allows a connection to a wireless network having a reachable service provider that matches an allowable service provider associated with indicated to be for the second mode of operation step of . In these steps the wireless device may consult a stored hotspot profile having or being associated with an indication of use in the first second modes of operation.

Also in these steps the wireless device may receive and utilize relevant information elements in beacon and probe responses from the wireless networks. Some of this information is especially pertinent where the networks are configured in accordance with the Wi Fi Affiance Passpoint certification or specification. The information elements may include one or more of the following access network type which identifies whether the hotspot is for public private or guest access an Internet access indicator such as an indicator bit or Internet bit which indicates whether the hotspot may be used for Internet access an advertisement protocol indicator which indicates whether the hotspot supports GAS ANQP see discussion later below a roaming consortium element which provides a list of up to three 3 identifiers or names of reachable service providers venue information which identifies the venue where the hotspot is situated homogenous ESSID which identifies hotspots in a continuous zone P2P and cross connect capability and BSS load element which is an indicator of current load on the access point originally from 802.11e .

Given such information in some embodiments the wireless device further limits connections in the first mode of operation to those hotspots having an indication e.g. the Internet access indicator which indicates that the hotspot may be used for Internet access. Additionally or alternatively the wireless device may limit connections in the first mode of operation to hotspots having an indication e.g. the advertisement protocol indicator which indicates that the hotspot supports a protocol for automated connection for service e.g. GAS ANQP . Put another way the wireless device may disallow or prohibit connections to hotspots having the indication which indicates that the hotspot may not be used for Internet access or the indication which indicates that the hotspot does not support the protocol for automated connection for service.

In some embodiments the wireless device receives the roaming consortium element from the hotspot and identifies at least some of the reachable service providers indicated in this element. Note however the roaming consortium element is limited to three 3 service providers. As is apparent the above information may or may not be sufficient for the wireless device to fully determine whether or not it should select a given hotspot for communication. Thus in some embodiments if the wireless device identifies that the hotspot supports the protocol for automated connection for service e.g. GAS ANQP then it subsequently sends a request for additional information. The wireless device may use a pre association protocol allowing the query for such additional parameters and this protocol may be an Access Network Query Protocol ANQP . ANQP may be delivered inside a Generic Advertisement Service GAS . The information elements received via the ANQP may include one or more of the following venue name information network authentication type information roaming consortium list IP address type availability information NAI realm list 3GPP cellular network information domain name list hotspot operator friendly name operating class hotspot WAN metrics hotspot connection capability and NAI home realm.

Given the above the wireless device may utilize this additional information to identify additional reachable service providers in the hotspots e.g. in steps and of . More particularly for example the wireless device may receive and utilize the NAI realm list the 3GPP cellular network information the domain name list the hotspot operator friendly name and or the NAI home realm. The wireless device compares the identifiers with the allowable identifiers programmed in its memory to identify any matches for connection.

Moving ahead when the wireless device is considering peer to peer P2P networks or devices step of the wireless device will discover P2P networks or devices that are appropriate for and correspond to the first or the second mode of operation. Here the wireless device may perform P2P discovery operations such as operations in a scan phase or a find phase etc. to identify the one or more P2P networks or devices. The wireless device receives information from these P2P networks or devices including a device type which corresponds to the type of P2P device.

The wireless device identifies whether it is operating in the first mode or the second mode of operation step of . When in the first mode of operation the wireless device allows a P2P connection with a P2P device which has a device type that matches the allowable device type associated with indicated to be for the first mode of operation step of . The wireless device disallows prohibits or otherwise fails to consider a connection to a P2P device having a device type that fails to match any of the allowable device types. Conversely when in the second mode of operation the wireless device may allow a P2P connection to any suitable P2P device alternatively the wireless device allows a connection to a P2P device which has a device type that matches an allowable device type associated with indicated to be for the second mode of operation step of .

In some embodiments the wireless device further limits P2P connections in the first mode of operation to those P2P devices providing an indication e.g. an Internet access indicator which indicates that the P2P device has or may be used for Internet access.

In some other embodiments the wireless device stores P2P profiles which include the allowable device type see e.g. the description in relation to . Here the wireless device may attempt to discover P2P devices associated with P2P profiles having a stored indication of use i.e. for the first or the mode of operation .

In some other embodiments the wireless device discovers P2P devices having the device type property associated with the selected application for execution see again e.g. the description in relation to . The wireless device compares this device type property with the allowable device types associated with the first or the second mode of operation. If there is a match then the connection is allowed and otherwise the connection is disallowed.

The list of one or more allowable device types for the first mode of operation may include an access point AP type. In some embodiments this list may exclude a phone or smartphone type which may or may not provide Internet access. A phone or smartphone type may not provide for a secure or reliable connection for the wireless device for Internet access. More generally the list for the first mode of operation may include device types that are known to be secure and exclude device types that may not be secure. On the other hand the list of one or more allowable device types for the second mode of operation may include an access point AP type a phone or smartphone type or both.

Another variation on the techniques described in relation to is now discussed. In this variation the IT policy includes one or more allowable hotspot aggregator service identifiers or names corresponding to one or more allowable hotspot aggregator services e.g. Boingo iPass etc. . For example the IT policy may include aggregator service information for an aggregator service profile which includes the allowable hotspot aggregator service identifier. The information may be more encompassing including an aggregator identification an aggregator name a plurality of wireless network identifiers e.g. all available SSIDs or a subset thereof such as SSIDs per current location area and or one or more server names for authentication and or access as examples. The information and or allowable hotspot aggregator service identifiers are stored in memory. The stored information and or identifiers may be for use in operating in the first mode of operation of the device. In some embodiments the IT policy excludes some or all wireless network identifiers e.g. SSIDs corresponding to available wireless networks of the hotspot aggregator.

The wireless device utilizes an allowable hotspot aggregator service identifier stored in its memory to obtain allowable network identifiers associated therewith. More particularly for example for initial hotspot operation the wireless device associates with a wireless network hotspot associated with the allowable hotspot aggregator. Then the wireless device accesses a server and or database of this hotspot aggregator to receive a plurality of wireless network identifiers e.g. BSSIDs and or SSIDS corresponding to the available wireless networks of the hotspot aggregator service. The identifiers may be a subset of all identifiers of the hotspot aggregator service e.g. available networks per current location area . Alternatively the wireless device may associate and or connect with any suitable network to access the server and or database of the hotspot aggregator service for receiving the plurality of network identifiers e.g. BSSIDs or SSIDs .

When in the first mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection to a hotspot identified by a network identifier that matches an allowable network identifier. The wireless device disallows or fails to consider a connection to a hotspot identified by a network identifier that fails to match any of the allowable network identifiers. Conversely when in the second mode of operation the wireless device may allow any suitable connection alternatively the wireless device allows a connection to a hotspot identified by a network identifier that matches an allowable network identifier associated with and indicated to be for the second mode of operation.

Thus as provided herein methods and apparatus for controlling connectivity to wireless networks are described. In one illustrative example a wireless device receives a communication policy from a private network. The communication policy includes one or more allowable service provider identifiers corresponding to one or more allowable service providers. The allowable service provider identifiers may include for example one or more domain names or realms. The wireless device stores these allowable service provider identifiers in memory. Then the wireless device receives via a wireless network a hotspot one or more reachable service provider identifiers corresponding to one or more reachable service providers which provide service via the wireless network. In a first work mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection to the wireless network for communications based on a match between one of the first service provider identifiers and one of the reachable service providers in the wireless network. In a second personal mode of operation the wireless device allows a connection to the wireless network based on a match between a second service provider identifier stored in memory and one of the reachable service provider identifiers.

In another illustrative example the communication policy includes one or more allowable device types for peer to peer P2P communications. The wireless device stores in memory the one or more allowable device types. Then the wireless device receives a device type of and from another wireless device. The wireless device allows a P2P connection with the other wireless device based on identifying a match between one of the allowable device types and the device type received from the other wireless device. On the other hand the wireless device disallows the P2P connection with the other wireless device based on identifying that none of the allowable device types match the device type received from the other wireless device. For this technique the wireless device may operate in a first work mode of operation. Further in a second personal mode of operation the wireless device allows the P2P connection with the other wireless device based on identifying a match between one or more other allowable device types and the device type received from the other wireless device. The one or more allowable device types for the first mode of operation may include an access point AP type. The one or more allowable device types for the first mode of operation may exclude a phone or smartphone type. The one or more allowable device types for the second mode of operation may include a phone or smartphone type.

In even another illustrative example the communication policy includes one or more allowable hotspot aggregator service identifiers or names corresponding to one or more allowable hotspot aggregator services. The wireless device stores in memory the allowable hotspot aggregator service identifier or name. The wireless device then receives from a database of the allowable hotspot aggregator service a plurality of allowable network identifiers corresponding to one or more allowable wireless networks and stores the allowable network identifiers in its memory. The wireless device then receives from a wireless network an available network identifier which identifies the wireless network and allows a connection to the wireless network for communications based on identifying a match between one of the allowable network identifiers and the available network identifier.

The above described embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to be examples only. Those of skill in the art may affect alterations modifications and variations to the particular embodiments without departing from the scope of the application. Although the description relates to specific examples for illustration where the WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network for example different environments may be applicable as well. As a few other examples the wireless networking may be based on a WiMAX network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB network i.e. IEEE 802.15 . The invention described herein in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

