---

title: Recombinant adeno-associated virus delivery of alpha-sarcoglycan polynucleotides
abstract: The present invention relates to recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) delivery of an alpha-sarcoglycan gene. The invention provides rAAV products and methods of using the rAAV in the treatment of limb girdle muscular dystrophies such as LGMD2D.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09434928&OS=09434928&RS=09434928
owner: NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL, INC.
number: 09434928
owner_city: Columbus
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121121
---
This application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 563 139 filed Nov. 23 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. 5U54NS055958 03 awarded by the United States National Institute of Health National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to recombinant adeno associated virus rAAV delivery of an alpha sarcoglycan gene. The invention provides rAAV products and methods of using the rAAV in the treatment of limb girdle muscular dystrophies such as LGMD2D.

This application contains as a separate part of disclosure a Sequence Listing in computer readable form filename 45210PCT SeqListing.txt 23 573 byte ASCII text file which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Muscular dystrophies MDs are a group of genetic diseases. The group is characterized by progressive weakness and degeneration of the skeletal muscles that control movement. Some forms of MD develop in infancy or childhood while others may not appear until middle age or later. The disorders differ in terms of the distribution and extent of muscle weakness some forms of MD also affect cardiac muscle the age of onset the rate of progression and the pattern of inheritance.

One group of MDs is the limb girdle group LGMD of MDs. LGMDs are rare conditions and they present differently in different people with respect to age of onset areas of muscle weakness heart and respiratory involvement rate of progression and severity. LGMDs can begin in childhood adolescence young adulthood or even later. Both genders are affected equally. LGMDs cause weakness in the shoulder and pelvic girdle with nearby muscles in the upper legs and arms sometimes also weakening with time. Weakness of the legs often appears before that of the arms. Facial muscles are usually unaffected. As the condition progresses people can have problems with walking and may need to use a wheelchair over time. The involvement of shoulder and arm muscles can lead to difficulty in raising arms over head and in lifting objects. In some types of LGMD the heart and breathing muscles may be involved.

There are at least nineteen forms of LGMD and the forms are classified by their associated genetic defects.

Specialized tests for LGMD are now available through a national scheme for diagnosis the National Commissioning Group NCG .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 262 035 states it discloses a method for treating a patient suffering from the disease sarcoglycan deficient limb girdle muscular dystrophy by gene replacement therapy. It claims intramuscular injection of an expression vector containing alpha sarcoglycan nucleic acid. See also Allamand et al. 7 16 1385 1391 2000 .

The present inventors delivered an alpha sarcoglycan gene in an adeno associated type 1 vector by intramuscular injection with the goal of treating LGMD2D as described in Rodino Klapac et al. 71 240 247 2008 Mendell et al. 66 3 290 297 2009 and Mendell et al. 68 5 629 638 2010 .

Adeno associated virus AAV is a replication deficient parvovirus the single stranded DNA genome of which is about 4.7 kb in length including 145 nucleotide inverted terminal repeat ITRs . There are multiple serotypes of AAV. The nucleotide sequences of the genomes of the AAV serotypes are known. For example the complete genome of AAV 1 is provided in GenBank Accession No. NC 002077 the complete genome of AAV 2 is provided in GenBank Accession No. NC 001401 and Srivastava et al. J. Virol. 45 555 564 1983 the complete genome of AAV 3 is provided in GenBank Accession No. NC 1829 the complete genome of AAV 4 is provided in GenBank Accession No. NC 001829 the AAV 5 genome is provided in GenBank Accession No. AF085716 the complete genome of AAV 6 is provided in GenBank Accession No. NC 00 1862 at least portions of AAV 7 and AAV 8 genomes are provided in GenBank Accession Nos. AX753246 and AX753249 respectively see also U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 282 199 and 7 790 449 relating to AAV 8 the AAV 9 genome is provided in Gao et al. J. Virol. 78 6381 6388 2004 the AAV 10 genome is provided in Mol. Ther. 13 1 67 76 2006 and the AAV 11 genome is provided in Virology 330 2 375 383 2004 . Cis acting sequences directing viral DNA replication rep encapsidation packaging and host cell chromosome integration are contained within the AAV ITRs. Three AAV promoters named p5 p19 and p40 for their relative map locations drive the expression of the two AAV internal open reading frames encoding rep and cap genes. The two rep promoters p5 and p19 coupled with the differential splicing of the single AAV intron at nucleotides 2107 and 2227 result in the production of four rep proteins rep 78 rep 68 rep 52 and rep 40 from the rep gene. Rep proteins possess multiple enzymatic properties that are ultimately responsible for replicating the viral genome. The cap gene is expressed from the p40 promoter and it encodes the three capsid proteins VP1 VP2 and VP3. Alternative splicing and non consensus translational start sites are responsible for the production of the three related capsid proteins. A single consensus polyadenylation site is located at map position 95 of the AAV genome. The life cycle and genetics of AAV are reviewed in Muzyczka Current Topics in Microbiology and Immunology 158 97 129 1992 .

AAV possesses unique features that make it attractive as a vector for delivering foreign DNA to cells for example in gene therapy. AAV infection of cells in culture is noncytopathic and natural infection of humans and other animals is silent and asymptomatic. Moreover AAV infects many mammalian cells allowing the possibility of targeting many different tissues in vivo. Moreover AAV transduces slowly dividing and non dividing cells and can persist essentially for the lifetime of those cells as a transcriptionally active nuclear episome extrachromosomal element . The AAV proviral genome is infectious as cloned DNA in plasmids which makes construction of recombinant genomes feasible. Furthermore because the signals directing AAV replication genome encapsidation and integration are contained within the ITRs of the AAV genome some or all of the internal approximately 4.3 kb of the genome encoding replication and structural capsid proteins rep cap may be replaced with foreign DNA. The rep and cap proteins may be provided in trans. Another significant feature of AAV is that it is an extremely stable and hearty virus. It easily withstands the conditions used to inactivate adenovirus 56 to 65 C. for several hours making cold preservation of AAV less critical. AAV may even be lyophilized. Finally AAV infected cells are not resistant to superinfection.

The present inventors have used an AAV8 like AAV termed rh.74 to deliver DNAs encoding various proteins. Xu et al. 17 209 220 2007 and Martin et al. 296 476 488 2009 relate to rh.74 expression of cytotoxic T cell GalNAc transferase for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Rodino Klapac et al. 18 1 109 117 2010 describes AAV rh.74 expression of a micro dystrophin FLAG protein tag fusion after delivery of the AAV rh.74 by vascular limb perfusion.

The muscular dystrophies are a group of diseases without identifiable treatment that gravely impact individuals families and communities. The costs are incalculable. Individuals suffer emotional strain and reduced quality of life associated with loss of self esteem. Extreme physical challenges resulting from loss of limb function creates hardships in activities of daily living. Family dynamics suffer through financial loss and challenges to interpersonal relationships. Siblings of the affected feel estranged and strife between spouses often leads to divorce especially if responsibility for the muscular dystrophy can be laid at the feet of one of the parental partners. The burden of quest to find a cure often becomes a life long highly focused effort that detracts and challenges every aspect of life. Beyond the family the community bears a financial burden through the need for added facilities to accommodate the handicaps of the muscular dystrophy population in special education special transportation and costs for recurrent hospitalizations to treat recurrent respiratory tract infections and cardiac complications. Financial responsibilities are shared by state and federal governmental agencies extending the responsibilities to the taxpaying community.

There thus remains a need in the art for treatments for muscular dystrophies including limb girdle muscular dystrophies such as LGMD2D.

The present invention provides methods and products for preventing delaying the progression of and or treating limb girdle muscular dystrophies. The methods involve vascular delivery e.g. by limb perfusion including but not limited to re circulating methodology of an alpha sarcoglycan expression cassette to muscle cells using AAV as a gene delivery vector. For example the alpha sarcoglycan expression cassette is inserted in the genome of the AAV referred to as AAV rh.74 herein.

In one aspect the invention provides an AAV referred to as AAV rh.74. AAV rh.74 exhibits about 93 identity to AAV8 capsid. provides an alignment of the AAV rh.74 capsid amino acid sequence with the AAV8 capsid amino acid sequence. The polynucleotide and amino acid sequences of the AAV rh.74 capsid are respectively set out in SEQ ID NOs 1 and 2.

In another aspect a method of ameliorating limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2D LGMD in a patient is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises the step of perfusing the vasculature of a limb of the patient with a rAAV comprising the AAV rh.74 capsid of SEQ ID NO 2 and comprising an alpha sarcoglycan polynucleotide for example the polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO 3 in a gene expression cassette in the virus genome.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting the progression of dystrophic pathology associated with LGMD 2D. In some embodiments the method comprises the step of perfusing the vasculature of a limb of the patient with a rAAV comprising AAV rh.74 capsid of SEQ ID NO 2 and comprising an alpha sarcoglycan polynucleotide for example the polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO 3 in a gene expression cassette in the virus genome.

In still another aspect a method of improving muscle function in a patient afflicted with limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2D LGMD 2D is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises the step of perfusing the vasculature of a limb of the patient with a rAAV comprising AAV rh.74 capsid of SEQ ID NO 2 and comprising an alpha sarcoglycan polynucleotide for example the polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO 3 in a gene expression cassette in the virus genome. In some instances the improvement in muscle function is an improvement in muscle strength. The improvement in muscle strength is determined by techniques known in the art such as the maximal voluntary isometric contraction testing MVICT . In some instances the improvement in muscle function is an improvement in stability in standing and walking. The improvement in stability strength is determined by techniques known in the art such as the 6 minute walk test 6MWT or timed stair climb.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of delivering an alpha sarcoglycan polynucleotide to an animal including but not limited to a human . In some embodiments the method comprises the step of perfusing the vasculature of a limb of the animal with a rAAV comprising the AAV rh.74 capsid of SEQ ID NO 2 and comprising an alpha sarcoglycan polynucleotide for example the polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO 3 in a gene expression cassette in the virus genome.

Cell transduction efficiencies of the methods of the invention described above and below may be at least about 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 or 95 percent. In some embodiments transduction efficiency is increased by increasing the volume of the composition in which the rAAV is delivered pre flushing before delivery of the rAAV and or increasing dwell time of the rAAV.

In some embodiments of the foregoing methods of the invention the virus genome is a self complementary genome. In some embodiments of the methods the genome of the rAAV lacks AAV rep and cap DNA. In some embodiments of the methods the rAAV is AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a rAAV comprising the AAV rh.74 capsid of SEQ ID NO 2 and comprising an alpha sarcoglycan polynucleotide for example the polynucleotide of SEQ ID NO 3 in a gene expression cassette in the virus genome. In some embodiments the genome of the rAAV lacks AAV rep and cap DNA. In some embodiments the rAAV is a self complementary genome. In some embodiments the rAAV is AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA.

Recombinant AAV genomes of the invention comprise one or more AAV ITRs flanking a polynucleotide encoding alpha sarcoglycan. The polynucleotide is operatively linked to transcriptional control DNA specifically promoter and polyadenylation signal DNAs that are functional in target forming an expression cassette. AAV DNA in the rAAV genomes may be from any AAV serotype for which a recombinant virus can be derived including but not limited to AAV serotypes AAV 1 AAV 2 AAV 3 AAV 4 AAV 5 AAV 6 AAV 7 AAV 8 AAV 9 AAV 10 and AAV 11. As noted in the Background section above the nucleotide sequences of the genomes of various AAV serotypes are known in the art. In some embodiments of the invention the promoter DNAs are muscle specific control elements including but not limited to those derived from the actin and myosin gene families such as from the myoD gene family See Weintraub et al. 251 761 766 1991 the myocyte specific enhancer binding factor MEF 2 Cserjesi and Olson 11 4854 4862 1991 control elements derived from the human skeletal actin gene Muscat et al. 7 4089 4099 1987 the cardiac actin gene muscle creatine kinase sequence elements Johnson et al. 9 3393 3399 1989 and the murine creatine kinase enhancer MCK element desmin promoter control elements derived from the skeletal fast twitch troponin C gene the slow twitch cardiac troponin C gene and the slow twitch troponin I gene hypozia inducible nuclear factors Semenza et al. 88 5680 5684 1991 steroid inducible elements and promoters including the glucocorticoid response element GRE See Mader and White 90 5603 5607 1993 and other control elements.

DNA plasmids of the invention comprise rAAV genomes of the invention. The DNA plasmids are transferred to cells permissible for infection with a helper virus of AAV e.g. adenovirus E1 deleted adenovirus or herpesvirus for assembly of the rAAV genome into infectious viral particles. Techniques to produce rAAV particles in which an AAV genome to be packaged rep and cap genes and helper virus functions are provided to a cell are standard in the art. Production of rAAV requires that the following components are present within a single cell denoted herein as a packaging cell a rAAV genome AAV rep and cap genes separate from i.e. not in the rAAV genome and helper virus functions. The AAV rep genes may be from any AAV serotype for which recombinant virus can be derived and may be from a different AAV serotype than the rAAV genome ITRs including but not limited to AAV serotypes AAV 1 AAV 2 AAV 3 AAV 4 AAV 5 AAV 6 AAV 7 AAV 8 AAV 9 AAV 10 and AAV 11. Use of cognate components is specifically contemplated. Production of pseudotyped rAAV is disclosed in for example WO 01 83692 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A method of generating a packaging cell is to create a cell line that stably expresses all the necessary components for AAV particle production. For example a plasmid or multiple plasmids comprising a rAAV genome lacking AAV rep and cap genes AAV rep and cap genes separate from the rAAV genome and a selectable marker such as a neomycin resistance gene are integrated into the genome of a cell. AAV genomes have been introduced into bacterial plasmids by procedures such as GC tailing Samulski et al. 1982 Proc. Natl. Acad. S6. USA 79 2077 2081 addition of synthetic linkers containing restriction endonuclease cleavage sites Laughlin et al. 1983 Gene 23 65 73 or by direct blunt end ligation Senapathy Carter 1984 J. Biol. Chem. 259 4661 4666 . The packaging cell line is then infected with a helper virus such as adenovirus. The advantages of this method are that the cells are selectable and are suitable for large scale production of rAAV. Other examples of suitable methods employ adenovirus or baculovirus rather than plasmids to introduce rAAV genomes and or rep and cap genes into packaging cells.

General principles of rAAV production are reviewed in for example Carter 1992 Current Opinions in Biotechnology 1533 539 and Muzyczka 1992 Curr. Topics in Microbial. and Immunol. 158 97 129 . Various approaches are described in Ratschin et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 4 2072 1984 Hermonat et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81 6466 1984 Tratschin et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 5 3251 1985 McLaughlin et al. J. Virol. 62 1963 1988 and Lebkowski et al. 1988 Mol. Cell. Biol. 7 349 1988 . Samulski et al. 1989 J. Virol. 63 3822 3828 U.S. Pat. No. 5 173 414 WO 95 13365 and corresponding U.S. Pat. No. 5 658 776 WO 95 13392 WO 96 17947 PCT US98 18600 WO 97 09441 PCT US96 14423 WO 97 08298 PCT US96 13872 WO 97 21825 PCT US96 20777 WO 97 06243 PCT FR96 01064 WO 99 11764 Perrin et al. 1995 Vaccine 13 1244 1250 Paul et al. 1993 Human Gene Therapy 4 609 615 Clark et al. 1996 Gene Therapy 3 1124 1132 U.S. Pat. No. 5 786 211 U.S. Pat. No. 5 871 982 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 595. The foregoing documents are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety herein with particular emphasis on those sections of the documents relating to rAAV production.

The invention thus provides packaging cells that produce infectious rAAV. In one embodiment packaging cells may be stably transformed cancer cells such as HeLa cells 293 cells and PerC.6 cells a cognate 293 line . In another embodiment packaging cells are cells that are not transformed cancer cells such as low passage 293 cells human fetal kidney cells transformed with E1 of adenovirus MRC 5 cells human fetal fibroblasts WI 38 cells human fetal fibroblasts Vero cells monkey kidney cells and FRhL 2 cells rhesus fetal lung cells .

The rAAV may be purified by methods standard in the art such as by column chromatography or cesium chloride gradients. Methods for purifying rAAV vectors from helper virus are known in the art and include methods disclosed in for example Clark et al. Hum. Gene Ther. 10 6 1031 1039 1999 Schenpp and Clark Methods Mol. Med. 69 427 443 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 566 118 and WO 98 09657.

In another embodiment the invention contemplates compositions comprising rAAV of the present invention. Compositions of the invention comprise rAAV in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compositions may also comprise other ingredients such as diluents. Acceptable carriers and diluents are nontoxic to recipients and are preferably inert at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate or other organic acids antioxidants such as ascorbic acid low molecular weight polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugar alcohols such as mannitol or sorbitol salt forming counterions such as sodium and or nonionic surfactants such as Tween pluronics or polyethylene glycol PEG .

Titers of rAAV to be administered in methods of the invention will vary depending for example on the particular rAAV the mode of administration the treatment goal the individual and the cell type s being targeted and may be determined by methods standard in the art. Titers of rAAV may range from about 1 10 about 1 10 about 1 10 about 1 10 about 1 10 about 1 10 about 1 10 about 1 10to about 1 10or more DNase resistant particles DRP per ml. Dosages may also be expressed in units of viral genomes vg i.e. 1 10vg 1 10vg 1 10vg 1 10vg 1 10vg 1 10vg 1 10vg 1 10vg respectively .

Methods of transducing a target cell e.g. a skeletal muscle smooth muscle or cardiac muscle cell with rAAV in vivo or in vitro are contemplated by the invention. The methods comprise the step of administering an effective dose or effective multiple doses of a composition comprising a rAAV of the invention to an animal including a human being in need thereof. If the dose is administered prior to development of a LGMD2D the administration is prophylactic. If the dose is administered after the development of LGMD2D the administration is therapeutic. In embodiments of the invention an effective dose is a dose that alleviates eliminates or reduces at least one symptom associated with LGMD2D being treated that slows or prevents progression to LGMD2D that slows or prevents progression of a disorder disease state that diminishes the extent of disease that results in remission partial or total of disease and or that prolongs survival.

Combination therapies are also contemplated by the invention. Combination as used herein includes simultaneous treatment or sequential treatments. Combinations of methods of the invention with standard medical treatments e.g. corticosteroids and or immunosuppressive drugs are specifically contemplated as are combinations with novel therapies.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating rAAV in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filter sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the sterilized active ingredient into a sterile vehicle which contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying technique that yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from the previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

The composition comprising a rAAV of the invention may also be administered to an animal including a human being in need thereof using a system such as is illustrated in and or according to a method such as illustrated in . In this regard may have been simplified by the omission of selected elements for the purpose of more clearly showing other elements. Such omissions of elements in some figures are not necessarily indicative of the presence or absence of particular elements in any of the exemplary embodiments except as may be explicitly delineated in the corresponding written description. is not necessarily to scale.

In fact according to one embodiment of the present circuit the circuit may include a first connection and collection site and a second connection and introduction site . Either or both of the connection sites may be defined by a luer connector incorporating a stopcock permitting fluid to be diverted from the circuit . For example the first connection site may include first and second luer connectors each with a stopcock and attached line. The second connection site may include a single stopcock with attached line. The lines running between the catheters the other equipment pump optional oxygenator optional heat exchanger and the sites may be exaggerated in for ease of illustration.

As illustrated the venous catheter is connected to a first end of the circuit that is received in the pump which may be a peristaltic or roller pump according to certain embodiments. The circuit may also be connected to the oxygenator if the perfusate passing through the circuit is blood for example. If fluids other than blood are passed through the circuit between the catheters then the oxygenator may not be required. Additionally the circuit may be received or connected to a heat exchanger which heat exchanger may be used to control or maintain the temperature of the fluid passing through the circuit . As noted above the heat exchanger is presently believed to be optional and may not be included in all embodiments of the present disclosure. The circuit is connected at a second end to the arterial catheter .

The system may be connected to a patient and in particular to a limb e.g. lower extremity of the patient that has been isolated from the remainder of the patient s body by a tight or tightly placed tourniquet which is provided as an exemplary isolation device or system. The venous catheter may be placed or disposed within a vein e.g. femoral vein of the limb while the arterial catheter may be placed or disposed within an artery e.g. femoral artery of the limb . As illustrated the insertion site of the venous catheter and the insertion site of the arterial catheter are adjacent each other and only slightly distal of the tourniquet .

Where the limb is the lower extremity i.e. a leg both catheter sites may be in the groin region. However according to other embodiments the venous catheter may be disposed only slightly distal to the tourniquet while the arterial catheter is disposed at a considerable distance from the tourniquet . For example where the limb is a leg one site may be in the groin and the other at the ankle. According to still other embodiments an upper extremity i.e. an arm may be targeted.

The catheters may be introduced into the vein and artery respectively either by surgical cut down and blunt dissection or by less invasive procedures such as the Seldinger technique percutaneously . In regard to the later technique it may be possible to introduce the catheters at a location remote to the limb undergoing perfusion and to advance the catheters from the remote site to a location proximate to the limb to be perfused. In fact balloon catheters may be used to perform both the connection to the circuit and when inflated the isolation of the limb from the remainder the patient s body.

The system is operated to circulate a fluid which may be referred to as the perfusate from the point of insertion of the arterial catheter through the limb to the point of insertion of the venous catheter through the pump optional oxygenator and optional heat exchanger and back to the arterial catheter . As noted above certain embodiments may employ the patient s blood potentially in combination with additional blood or blood components. However according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure the perfusate may be saline or a buffer solution. According to a non blood perfusate embodiment the blood may be removed from the limb via the venous catheter and the site while the perfusate is introduced via the arterial catheter and the site .

The system may also include sensors that may be used to monitor the flow of the perfusate through the system and the limb and may even be used to control the operation of the pump for example. In particular pressure sensors may be disposed upstream venous side and downstream arterial side of the pump and optional oxygenator and heat exchanger . In particular the sensor may be used to determine if a low pressure condition is occurring on upstream of the pump such that the operation of the pump should be stopped momentarily to prevent damage to the blood vessels of the limb .

A method of operating the system is illustrated in to deliver an rAAV. It will be understood that the method may be carried out using equipment other than that illustrated in i.e. system . In addition it will be understood that the system may be used to carry out a method other than the method illustrated in . However according to certain embodiments the system may be operated in accordance with the method .

The method begins at block with the insertion of the catheters or at least with the insertion of the venous catheter into the vein . At block the circuit may also be connected to the catheters and thereby to the vasculature of the limb . Method continues at block with the isolation of the limb from the remainder of the body which may be achieved by applying the tourniquet to the limb for example. It will be recognized that the order of the steps of blocks and may in fact be reversed according to certain embodiments of the present method. Depending on the choice of perfusate the method may then proceed to optional block .

If the perfusate is other than blood i.e. a non blood perfusate then at block a volume of the patient s blood is removed from the limb via the venous catheter and the site while the non blood perfusate e.g. a buffer solution such as Normosol R available from Hospira Inc. Lake Forest Ill. is introduced into the circuit and the limb via the site and the arterial catheter . The blood may be disposed in a sterile blood bag and an anti coagulant may be added to the blood such as ACD A or Heparin for storage. The volume of blood would then be stored using conventional methods for later reintroduction as explained in detail below.

Alternatively the patient s own blood may be used as the perfusate. However if the patient s own blood is used then it may be advisable to provide for oxygenation of the blood by way of the optional oxygenator . Moreover it may also be advisable to screen the blood for antibodies and complements that have specific binding sites for the rAAV or that exhibit non specific biding with the rAAV. If the patient is na ve to the rAAV no further action may be required. However if the patient has antibodies or complements that exhibit specific or non specific binding with the rAAV the blood may need to be filtered before it is used as the perfusate in the method . For example plasmapheresis may be used to remove the antibodies and or complements from the patient s blood.

In either event some additional perfusate may be added to facilitate the travel of the rAAV within the limb and in particular within the muscles of the limb . However because vascular pressures that are excessive are believed to be detrimental to the tissue of the limb overall volume of perfusate used is minimized according to certain embodiments of the present disclosure.

Once the step of block has been performed if required the pump is activated to cause the perfusate to circulate through the limb to perfuse limb at block . According to certain embodiments of the present disclosure after perfusion of the limb has begun the rAAV may be administered at block through its introduction injection into the circuit and the limb for example via the arterial catheter . According to other embodiments the administration of the rAAV may occur prior to the activation of the pump or may be delayed some period of time after the perfusion has begun. The rAAV is then permitted to recirculate or pass repeatedly with the perfusate through the circuit and limb for a period of time at block .

The period of time that the perfusate and rAAV is recirculating may be varied from patient to patient and between treatments of the same patient. For example the time period may be at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 minutes. For that matter the time period may be at least 10 minutes 20 minutes 30 minutes 40 minutes 50 minutes or 1 hour. According to certain embodiments the time period may even exceed 3 hours although many treatments may be less than 2 hours in length. According to particular embodiments the time period may be approximately or about 30 minutes.

Once the recirculation of the perfusate and rAAV has been conducted over the desired time period the perfusate and any rAAV remaining in the perfusate may be removed from the circuit and the limb at block . While it may be possible to perform a flush of the limb by introducing a perfusate without rAAV as the perfusate with residual rAAV is removed it is not expected that such a flush will be routinely performed. It also may be possible to reintroduce or reperfuse the limb at this point with the volume of the patient s blood removed from the limb at the beginning of the procedure although this also may not occur according to all embodiments of the present method .

Once the perfusate has been replaced with the blood at block if desired the isolation of the limb may be discontinued by removing the tourniquet for example at block . At this point or immediately prior to block the catheters may be removed from the vein and artery of the limb at block thereby disconnecting the circuit from the limb .

It is believed that the use of a recirculating system such as the system and a method of recirculation such as the method may have one or more advantages with regard to the administration of the rAAV. To begin the recirculation thus described facilitates the travel of the rAAV to all or nearly all regions of the limb and in particular to all or nearly all of the muscle fibers of the muscles of the limb and for those regions to be exposed to the rAAV multiple times. Both the widespread nature of the exposure as well as the duration frequency of the exposure are believed to assist in the rAAV transferring the genetic material into the muscle cells and the interstitial spaces between the muscle fiber cells of the targeted limb . However further advantages may be obtained when a non oxygenated perfusate is used in the system and the limb . It will be recognized that if a non oxygenated perfusate e.g. a buffer solution is used in the system and limb the tissue of the limb will experience hypoxia and or acidosis over time because of the lack of oxygen in the circulating perfusate. Hypoxia and acidosis are known to cause blood vessels to dilate vasodilatation . As a consequence it is believed that the travel of the perfusate and the rAAV carried by the perfusate will be further facilitated because of the dilated nature of the vessels permitting the perfusate and rAAV to travel deep within the tissues of the targeted limb .

Thus aspects and embodiments of the invention are illustrated by the following examples. Example 1 describes the isolation of AAV rh.74. Example 2 describes alpha sarcoglycan gene expression from a highly active expression cassette combined with a self complementary AAV vector. Example 3 describes gene delivery via the mouse vasculature using AAV rh.74. Example 4 describes the vascular delivery of AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA in non human primates. Example 5 describes the biodistribution of the AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA vector in the macaques. Example 6 describes administration of AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA to a human patient. Example 7 describes isolated whole limb re circulation IWRLC methodology according to the invention. Example 8 describes IWLRC in the non human primate with a reporter construct. Example 9 describes IWLRC in the non human primate with therapeutic transgenes. Example 10 describes vascular delivery of SC rAAV8.tMCK.hSGCA to alpha sarcoglycan knock out mice.

A unique AAV serotype was isolated from a rhesus macaque lymph node using a novel technique termed Linear Rolling Circle Amplification. Using the LRCA process double stranded circular AAV genomes were amplified from several rhesus macaques. The method is predicated on the ability to amplify circular AAV genomes by isothermic rolling circle amplification using phi29 phage DNA polymerase and AAV specific primers. LRCA products are contiguous head to tail arrays of the circular AAV genomes from which full length AAV Rep Cap molecular clones were isolated. Four isolates were sequenced and the predicted amino acid sequences for Rep and Cap ORFs were aligned and compared to previously published serotypes Table . VP1 protein sequences were analyzed and revealed homology to the NHP AAV clades D E and AAV 4 like virus isolates. Analysis of the Rep78 top portion of Table ORF revealed strong homology to AAV 1 98 99 .

One macaque tissue sample rh426 M yielded a divergent AAV8 like isolate termed rh.74 that shares 93 sequence identity with AAV8. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of the rh.74 capsid gene are respectively set out in SEQ ID NOs 1 and 2. shows an alignment of the rh.74 SEQ ID NO 2 and the AAV8 capsid SEQ ID NO 4 amino acid sequences.

The rh.74 capsid gene sequence was cloned into an AAV helper plasmid containing the Rep gene from AAV2 to provide vector replication functions for recombinant AAV vector production.

A vector was designed with several features to maximize the opportunity for clinical success. First to ameliorate possible immune responses to the vector expression cassette a synthetic codon optimized human alpha sarcoglycan cDNA hSCGA was placed under the control of a muscle specific promoter the truncated muscle creatine kinase promoter enhancer . The tMCK promoter was a gift from Dr. Xiao Xiao University of North Carolina . It is a modification of the previously described CK6 promoter Shield et al. 16 5058 5068 1996 and includes a modification in the enhancer upstream of the promoter region containing transcription factor binding sites. The enhancer is composed of two E boxes right and left . The tMCK promoter modification includes a mutation converting the left E box to a right E box 2R modification and a 6 bp insertion S5 modification . The nucleotide sequence of the hSCGA is set out in SEQ ID NO 3. Second the construct also includes a chimeric intron to promote high level expression. The chimeric intron is composed of the 5 donor site from the first intron of the human globin gene and the branchpoint and 3 splice acceptor site from the intron that is between the leader and the body of an immunoglobulin gene heavy chain variable region. Third a synthetic SV40 polyadenylation signal is used for efficient transcription termination. A schematic of the expression cassette is shown below in .

The expression cassette was inserted into the pHpa7 self complementary AAV vector plasmid backbone to generate plasmid sc.tMCK.aSG shown in . The location of the expression cassette elements in the plasmid is given in Table 2 below.

To maximize vector potency and reduce the dosing requirements a self complementary SC AAV vector was produced. SC AAV vectors demonstrate increased gene expression and express the protein product sooner than standard single stranded AAV vectors. This improvement is achieved by deleting a small portion of one AAV inverted terminal repeat ITR that causes AAV replication to proceed to a dimeric replication intermediate that is then packaged into AAV particles.

The recombinant SC AAV vector AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA expressing the alpha sarcoglycan gene from the muscle specific tMCK promoter was produced by a modified cross packaging approach using the plasmid sc.tMCK.aSG in an adenovirus free triple plasmid DNA transfection CaPOprecipitation method in HEK293 cells Rabinowitz et al. 76 791 801 2002 . Vector was produced by co transfecting with an AAV helper plasmid rep2 cap rh.74 and an adenovirus helper plasmid in similar fashion as that previously described Wang et al. 10 1528 1534 2003 . Plasmid rep2 cap rh.74 encodes the wild type AAV2 rep gene and rh.74 cap gene and the adenovirus helper plasmid pAdhelper expresses the adenovirus type 5 E2A E4ORF6 and VA I II RNA genes which are required for high titer rAAV production.

Vectors were purified from clarified 293 cell lysates by sequential iodixanol gradient purification and anion exchange column chromatography using a linear NaCl salt gradient as previously described Clark et al. 10 1031 1039 1999 . Vector genome vg titers were measured using QPCR based detection with a tMCK specific primer probe set and utilized the Prism 7500 Taqman detector system PE Applied Biosystems as previously described Clark et al. supra . Vector stock titers ranged between 1 10 10vg mL.

With respect to clinical application rather than delivering alpha sarcoglycan gene by direct injection into the muscle meaningful results will be best attained using a gene transfer approach that has the ability to reach widespread muscle targets resulting in an improvement in the patient s quality of life. A vascular delivery approach allows for a one time vector infusion to reach multiple muscles instead of direct injections that would be necessary using a direct injection intramuscular approach. Moreover benefits of a regional vascular approach include lack of widespread dissemination of virus safe passage of the virus directly to the targeted muscles and transduction of multiple muscles in for example the leg.

The AAV1 serotype transduces muscle efficiently by direct intramuscular injection however comparative studies demonstrated that AAVrh.74 delivered through the circulation is vastly superior to AAV1 and superior to AAV6 in transducing skeletal muscle via this route. As described in Rodino Klapac et al. 5 45 2007 AAV6 and AAV rh.74 carrying a micro dystrophin gene demonstrated ease in crossing the vascular barrier when delivered to skeletal muscle in the mdx mouse through a catheter in the femoral artery. Extremely efficient regional vascular delivery was observed using AAVrh.74.micro dystrophin and yielded percent transduced myofibers as follows 94.5 0.9 1 month 91.3 3.1 2 months and 89.6 1.6 3 months . AAV6.micro dystrophin treated animals demonstrated 87.7 6.8 1 month 78.9 7.4 2 months and 81.2 6.2 3 months transduction. In striking contrast AAV1 demonstrated very low transduction efficiency 0.9 0.3 1 month 2.1 0.8 2 months and 2.1 0.7 3 months by the vascular delivery route. The delivery of micro dystrophin through the femoral artery was accompanied by functional improvement as measured by protection against contraction induced injury and improvement in tetanic force.

In the present experiments the AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA was delivered by isolated limb perfusion to the alpha sarcoglycan knock out mouse.

Sedated and anesthetized animals secured to a surgical platform were prepared and draped in the usual sterile fashion. Suture tourniquets 3.0 braided silk were placed loosely around the thigh near the inguinal region. A small incision was placed over the femoral bundle visible through the skin. The femoral artery was isolated and cannulated with a heat pulled polyethylene PE 10 catheter prefilled with normal saline and secured in place. The tourniquet was tightened and a pre flush of normal saline was delivered. Following the pre flush the vector dose 2 10vg kg wt was administered and allowed to dwell for 10 minutes. After the 10 minute dwell a final post flush of normal saline was delivered and the catheter and tourniquet removed and the animal recovered.

Three months post gene transfer transduction levels were observed averaging 78.2 11 of muscle fibers. Not only was the transgene appropriately expressed at the muscle fiber periphery in greater than 75 of muscle fibers muscle function measured as specific force was restored in treated animal muscles compared to non treated muscle. In other experiments gene transfer of up to 90 positive fibers in the lower extremity musculature was observed.

The above success in the mouse promulgated extensive studies in non human primates using both cynomologus and rhesus macaques. In both species a clinically relevant intra arterial delivery system was used.

Sedated and anesthetized animals were secured to a surgical bed. Proximal and distal tourniquets were loosely positioned above the knee and below the gastrocemius muscle of a macaque. A small incision was placed at the femoral triangle and the femoral artery was identified and dissected free and looped with proximal and distal ligatures to control bleeding and facilitate catheter introduction. The femoral artery was cannulated with a 3.0 Fr introducer sheath via a modified Seldinger method by passing the pre flushed sheath over a wire previously placed in the artery. The sheath was advanced only a few centimeters and secured in place with a 3.0 braided silk suture.

Heparinization was achieved with 50 U kg body weight via the sheath and the sheath was cleared with normal saline. Fluoroscopy was used to generate a road map of the vasculature by administering a few milliliters of contrast agent through the sheath and capturing the fluoroscopic image. A 3.0 Fr 50 cm long catheter was placed into the introducer sheath and advanced a few centimeters. A guide wire 0.018 in. diameter was placed through the catheter and under fluoroscopic guidance advanced to the sural arteries which perfuse the two heads of the gastrocnemius. Once the catheter was correctly positioned the vascular bed of the gastrocnemius was isolated by the placement of proximal and distal tourniquets. The proximal tourniquet was placed above the knee and just proximal to the catheter tip. Optimal placement of the proximal tourniquet was assessed by partial tourniquet tightening and visualization of a small volume few milliliters of injected contrast agent. Once the relationship of the proximal tourniquet to catheter tip was established the contrast was flushed from the limb with normal saline and the distal tourniquet was positioned just below the gastrocnemius. The second tourniquet provides compartmentalization of the gastrocnemius. Dosing began with a pre flush volume 2.5 mL kg of normal saline delivered over 60 sec. with the tourniquets pulled snug. While the final volume was administered the tourniquets were pulled tight to occlude blood flow. With the tourniquets pulled tight the rAAV vector carrying the gene of interest AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA 2 10viral genomes per kg in 2.5 mL per kg volume was administered over 60 s. Allow 10 min. dwell time with the tourniquets left tight. Following the 10 min dwell and with the tourniquets still tight and occluding blood flow a post volume of normal saline 2.5 mL kg was administered over 60 s. At the completion of dosing the tourniquets and catheter were removed and direct pressure was applied to the wound for 10 min to control bleeding. The wound was closed with a continuous subcuticular 4.0 Vicryl suture. A pressure dressing was applied to the site and kept in place until the animal awoke from anesthesia.

Following the above vector delivery protocol similarly treated animals were sacrificed 12 to 24 weeks later and muscle samples were removed for storage and study. Gene expression was measured by antibody staining of the transgene expression product in situ.

Muscle transduction exceeded 75 in the muscles of interest using doses applicable to a clinical trial. Evaluation of antibody stained microscopic images of the treated muscles showed that micro dystrophin alpha sarcoglycan or a FLAG tag 6 amino acid tag attached to the transgene was expressed at the fiber periphery the region known as the sarcolemma. This is the region of normal expression for these proteins. Muscles not targeted had very low levels of transgene expression highlighting the specific nature of the targeting. Robust expression in other animals treated was observed for up to six months.

By using the femoral artery delivery approach described in Example 4 vector escape outside the limb was minimized as shown by PCR based detection of AAV vector genomes in organs throughout the body at the time of animal necropsy. shows vector biodistribution data from fifteen monkeys receiving vector through the femoral artery. Only the targeted muscle gastrocnemius and spleen shows significant number of vector genomes. These samples were obtained three weeks post gene delivery through the femoral artery. The number of vector genomes recovered from remote sites were negligible note the log scale .

A dose escalation study of AAVrh74.tMCK.hSGCA delivered via the femoral artery to the quadriceps muscles of both legs of LGMD2D alpha sarcoglycan deficient patients is performed. Two cohorts undergo gene transfer in a standard three six dose escalation scheme to establish maximum tolerated dose MTD using toxicity. A minimum of three subjects are enrolled into each cohort. The first cohort receives a total dose of 3 10vg split between the two extremities 1.5 10vg per limb . The vector is infused through the femoral artery using a percutaneous balloon catheter. This is a one time vector infusion. The second cohort receives 1 10vg total dose split between the two quads 5 10vg per limb delivered to the quadriceps muscles according to the same protocol. All patients undergo a muscle biopsy at 3 months one leg and 6 months contra lateral leg post gene therapy.

More specifically patients receive general anesthesia during the procedure. Procedures are performed under sterile conditions. The femoral arteries are catheterized percutaneously in the groin. A fluoroscopy guided 5 Fr catheter is advanced to the vessels supplying the quadriceps muscle. A blood pressure cuff at the knee serves as a tourniquet to promote vector delivery to the quadriceps muscles. A balloon catheter prevents backflow of vector to general circulation. Blood flow to the extremity is occluded for 10 minutes to promote transport through the endovascular barrier. Prior to vector administration a pre vector flush of saline 2.5 ml kg is given over one minute immediately followed by occluding blood flow to the extremity. AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA is infused over 60 seconds at a dose of 1.5 10vg per limb in 2.5 ml kg of Tris buffered saline for the low dose cohort and 5 10vg per limb in 2.5 ml kg of Tris buffered saline for the higher dose cohort. The extremity remains isolated from the circulation for 10 minutes before releasing the tourniquet. A post vector flush 2.5 ml kg is infused over one minute prior to release of tourniquets. Direct pressure is applied for 10 minutes to ensure hemostasis.

Patients undergo muscle biopsies at two time points three and six months on contralateral limbs . Biopsy evaluation includes analysis of alpha sarcoglycan expression and the entire sarcoglycan complex by immune stains and western blots. Mononuclear cells CD4 and CD8 macrophages are assessed as is MHC I and II expression. On a monthly basis patents are evaluated for neutralizing antibodies to rAAV8 along with ELISpots to both rh.74 capsid and alpha sarcoglycan protein. Muscle strength of the quadriceps is evaluated by quantitative myometry and timed functional tests of standing from a sitting position and walking 9 meters.

Some chemotherapeutic agents have been delivered by limb perfusion as described in Justison et al. 41 231 234 2009 and van Akkooi et al. 30 408 410 2006 . It is contemplated herein that recombinant viruses of the invention can also be delivered to a patient via a re circulating methodology. The methodology provides controlled dwell time for viral uptake control of perfusion pressure vascular pH vascular oxygenation and clearing of plasma blood containing antibodies and complement from the targeted circulation and tissue. In brief a limb of a patient is isolated with a tourniquet an artery and vein of the limb are accessed with angio catheters and the two catheters are connected via tubing stopcocks and a pump. Buffered solution is pumped into the artery and blood and serum is collected from the limb into a sterile bag for redelivery upon completion of the procedure. While the limb is perfused with buffered solution the viral vector is administered.

More specifically to deliver AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA to a lower limb of a patient for example the patient is sedated and anesthetized. The inguinal area is prepared and draped in the usual sterile fashion. Appropriately sized angio catheters are placed via direct cut down and blunt dissection into the femoral artery and vein at a site just distal to the inguinal ligament allowing enough space to place a tourniquet. The tourniquet allows temporary isolation of the lower extremity. Alternatively it is contemplated that angio catheters can be placed percutaneously or at distal sites and targeted by fluoroscopy.

To these angio catheters a sterile 3 16 ID venous line is connected to the venous catheter with a luer lock. The tubing will contain two 3 16 single luer connectors separated by a three inch piece of 3 16 tubing. Each 3 16 luer connector will have an associated six inch pigtail and two way stopcock. This allows for collection of the blood as it is displaced with a Normosol R Hospira Inc. Lake Forest Ill. solution. The blood will be mixed with 8 ml ACD A anticoagulant during collection so that it may be returned post procedure. From the second 3 16 double luer connector is again be 3 16 tubing that is placed within one of the roller heads of a Maqet HL 20 twin roller pump Maquet Hirrlingen Germany . This roller head serves as the perfusate pump during the experiment. Post roller head the 3 16 tubing is connected to a Sorin CSC 14 heat exchanger Sorin Group USA Inc. Arvada Colo. 28 ml prime volume . The CSC 14 allows for temperature regulation of the perfusate throughout the procedure. A two inch piece of 3 16 tubing is connected to the outlet of the CSC 14 heat exchanger where a 3 16 single luer connector and associated six inch pigtail and stopcock are connected. A two inch piece of 3 16 tubing is connected to the opposite end of the 3 16 single luer and is then stepped down to ID tubing that serves as the return line. The return line is connected to the catheter within the artery with a luer connection. All components are primed with Normosol R in a sterile manner and warmed to 37 degrees Celsius prior to connection with the arterial and venous catheters by recirculating through a bag of Normosol R. The total prime volume of all components is 62 mL 10 mL.

Once connected to the venous and arterial cannulas a tubing clamp is placed between the two 3 16 luer connectors on the venous limb. Normosol R is injected into the distal luer connector utilizing a 60 mL syringe displacing the blood into a 60 mL syringe containing 8 mL ACD A attached to the proximal 3 16 luer. This process is repeated until the drainage blood Normosol have an immeasurable hematocrit 

At the conclusion of one hour of re circulation the blood and Normosol R initially withdrawn during the connection process will be returned. To achieve this a tubing clamp is placed between the two 3 16 luer connectors on the venous limb. An empty 60 mL syringe is connected to the proximal luer connector. The 60 mL syringes collected earlier are connected and injected via the distal luer connector in reverse order of their collection. Once the blood has been returned the circuit is disconnected from the luer connectors and disposed of as biohazard waste. The tourniquet is removed slowly to allow systemic circulation to the limb and the cannulae removed. Pressure is used to control bleeding at the cut down site. Following the procedure the patient is recovered in an appropriately warmed environment.

IWLRC with AAVrh.74 and a reporter transgene construct comprising a cytomegalovirus promoter and eGFP AAVrh.74.CMV.eGFP demonstrates efficiently expressed transgene with broad distribution throughout the major muscles of the lower limb.

Two vector transgene doses high 6 10vg kg and low 2 10vg kg were administered to the lower extremities of two rhesus macaques such that one animal received the low dose to both lower limbs and the other animal received the high dose to both lower limbs. Results achieved with the doses are presented in respectively.

On analysis of the major muscles of the lower extremity both doses show broad transgene expression throughout the lower extremity with broader and more efficient expression in the lower extremity of the higher dosed animal. At the dose of 6 10 IWLRC resulted in greater than 40 muscle fiber transgene expression in major muscles of the lower extremity except the biceps femoris HBF and gracilis HGras of the Hamstring muscle group. Included in the graphs but not specifically targeted in this protocol as part of the lower limb are the Gluteus max and med muscles broad expression in the gluteus medius and less in the gluteus maximus is noted.

IWLRC was performed in non human primates using AAVrh.74 to deliver a therapeutic micro dystrophin transgene or a therapeutic alpha sarcoglycan transgene specifically using AAVrh.74.tMCK.hSGCA . Results achieved with the transgenes are presented in respectively.

The transgenes were expressed with broad distribution throughout the major muscles of the lower limb.

A two dose escalation study was performed in alpha sarcoglycan knock out mice. The two doses were 6 10vg kg low and 2 10vg kg high . The femoral artery of mice was catheterized and AAV74.tMCK.hSGCA was delivered at high or low dose in 100 l. A tourniquet placed mid thigh contained vector delivery to the lower extremity limiting delivery to the lower limb muscles. Three months post gene transfer lower limb muscles were harvested and assessed for resistance to eccentric contraction based injury and tetanic force.

Efficacy was demonstrated at both high and low dose. There was significant improvement versus alpha sarcoglycan knock out controls at both high and low dose. The high dose was not significantly different than wild type mice ANOVA . See .

While the present invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments it is understood that variations and modifications will occur to those skilled in the art. Accordingly only such limitations as appear in the claims should be placed on the invention.

All documents referred to in this application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

