---

title: Method of collecting data from a survey by a system
abstract: An electronic infrastructure consisting a plurality of client mobile devices, a distribution server and network that communicatively couples the plurality of client mobile devices and distribution server, wherein the distribution server collects survey questionnaires from a questionnaire source, distributes survey questionnaire to the plurality of client mobile devices. Then, the distribution server receives responses from the users of plurality of client mobile devices and analyzes the responses based upon several criteria. The criteria include region based analysis, race based analysis, age based analysis, other criteria based analysis, high priority analysis and/or satisfaction level analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092794&OS=09092794&RS=09092794
owner: 
number: 09092794
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120720
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 978 851 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 285 196 entitled MOBILE DEVICE AND DISTRIBUTION SERVER FOR SURVEYS USING INTERACTIVE MEDIA filed on Oct. 29 2007 which in turn makes reference to and claims priority to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 821 771 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 135 331 entitled SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INTERACTIVE USER INTEREST SURVEY TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE filed on Jun. 25 2007. The complete subject matter of each of the above U.S. patent applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their respective entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. provisional patent Ser. No. 60 860 700 entitled AUDIO GUIDED SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE ON MULTI STEP ACTIVITIES filed on Nov. 22 2006. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 524 568 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 24 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 702 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 10 2004. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 530 175 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS AND A TRADING SYSTEM FOR CONTRACTS ON USER COMMITMENTS TO ANSWER QUESTIONNAIRES filed on Dec. 17 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The patent application makes reference to claims priority to and claims benefit of U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 821 771 entitled SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INTERACTIVE USER INTEREST SURVEY TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE filed on Jun. 25 2007. The complete subject matter of the above is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to Internet infrastructures and more particularly to distribution of surveys and processing data from surveys.

Widespread usage of mobile devices or cell phones and vastly improved performance of these mobile devices allow programmers to envisage evermore sophisticated applications to be written. Many of today s mobile devices run on a platform of operating systems written specifically for them and have multiple applications written to be run using these operating systems. These applications include other than voice communication keeping record of appointments and schedules storing addresses presenting calendars surfing Internet playing games among many other and can be run from any convenient location.

Today s mobile devices play music and other audio clips such as mp3 and also play video clips and movies such as mp4 . They can be networked with external devices such as other mobile phones laptops and personal computers via infrared or Bluetooth. They can also communicatively couple with external servers via Internet using Wi Fi interfaces and built in modems.

Mobile devices come with wide variety of features some have small screens and few soft programmable keys while many others have larger screens with multiple soft keys. They are also available with alpha numeric keyboards or with keypad on the screen that are operated using a stylus.

Application for these mobile devices are written using one of many programming languages available and some of these applications are capable of processing content provided as XML eXtensible Markup Language documents. These applications or programs may be built into the hardware ASIC or embedded applications for example using permanent memories of these mobile devices. They can also be downloaded into the devices using a flash memory or from an external server via Internet. Then they can be run on mobile devices once downloaded and when the applications are no longer required they can be erased automatically or manually. These programs accomplish many tasks such as managing daily tasks assisting marketing keeping data and files stored managing databases etc.

Quite often product marketing organizations and branding companies send product information to people over common postal services. Such means of distributing product information is expensive and time consuming. Often marketing organizations send product preference inquiries questionnaires and user surveys to people who have purchased one of their products. Typically recipients ignore them as they have very limited incentives to complete them and return them for the time and energy it takes to complete them mail them at a port office etc. Thus marketing companies have limited success in getting questionnaires and surveys answered by people to whom they have mailed them. Recently some marketing companies have resorted to emailing surveys to their customers. Such surveys get lost in the plethora of emails and junk mail people usually receive in their email box. Thus the success rate is only marginally better than sending such questionnaires and surveys out by regular post. A better mechanism is needed that ensures a better response rate for such questionnaires and surveys. Even when a survey sent out to a user via regular post is received back with a user s response it has to be scanned by a scanning machine to enter into a database or manually processed for data entry into a database for subsequent processing analysis. Both options are expensive needing new equipment or data entry systems and often involve human intervention processing. Quite often the long multiple question surveys sent over email to a user are not compatible with a mobile phone and often unusable from a mobile phone due to limited screen sizes and almost unusable if not cumbersome and limiting on a mobile phone with small keyboard and keys to which 3 or 4 letters are mapped overloaded keys on keyboard .

Often questionnaires which comprise a list of questions usually in printed form are submitted to one or more individuals for replies that can be analyzed for usable information subsequently. Gathering responses from questionnaires involves a lot of human intervention and costs in terms of equipment costs and personnel costs. Questionnaires are often a form containing a set of questions especially one addressed sent to a statistically significant number of subjects as a way of gathering information for a survey on some specific topic issue. To conduct a survey of an issue often involves gathering a sampling or partial collection of facts figures or opinions taken and using that to approximate or indicate what a complete collection and analysis might reveal. Conducting a survey often involves sending questionnaires and gathering responses and analyzing them.

Often when a survey response is received it is not accompanied by any information or very limited information such as a user s name about the responder. Thus it is not possible to discern much about the user and about why the user has responded the way the user did. Users are also reluctant to provide a lot of personal details over and over again for different surveys and questionnaires. Polling related questionnaires and election issue related questionnaires in particular are of very limited use because not much is known about the responder.

These and other limitations and deficiencies associated with the related art may be more fully appreciated by those skilled in the art after comparing such related art with various aspects of the present invention as set forth herein with reference to the figures.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description of the Invention and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The distribution server analyzes the responses received by diverting the responses to appropriate criteria based analysis modules and sends the analyzed responses back to the questionnaire source. The questionnaire source may be any personal computer or laptop computer the user of which logs into the distribution server makes necessary payments for the services and delivers survey questionnaire to the distribution server . The criteria tags are tags that assist the distribution server to identify the type of analysis required. For example the criteria tags may indicate region based analysis race based analysis age based analysis other criteria based analysis high priority analysis and or satisfaction level analysis. The survey questionnaire may be presented as one question per screen with multi choice answers or multiple questions per screen in a tabular form.

The survey questionnaire criteria determines what type of analysis is to be performed on responses obtained from a given set of survey questions. The region based analysis includes statistical analysis on the basis of regional spread of answers. In other words the survey questionnaire answers are analyzed by region such as Northeast Midwest South and West. By this analysis the user of the questionnaire source gets information on regional trends. For example the region based analysis specifies states that belong to the regions tallies up subtotals by the regions.

Survey questions typically provide simple agree disagree and no response answers to choose from. The present invention supports gathering and analyzing such responses. Alternatively the answers may have strongly agree somewhat agree somewhat disagree strongly disagree or no response . The present invention also supports gathering and analyzing these type of responses. The survey totals are in terms of number of responses numbers for each of those choices and the percentages too. Then these responses are analyzed typically by the distribution server by region with total numbers and percentages for each region for each of the choices. Then statistical methods are applied on the responses to arrive at various statistical figures that are required by business scientific political and other entities for further interpretations of the results analysis. In addition the same responses may be analyzed by age group with for example groups of 18 24 25 34 35 54 55 69 and 70 .

Similarly the responses are analyzed by the distribution server with correlation to other behavior of the users such as responders that shop at a certain departmental store such as Wal Mart those that espouse a preference for one political party or another and those that have various levels of education less than High school HS graduate Some College College doctorate degree etc. .

Analyzing responses by the distribution server for Agree Disagree type questions based on race involves questions that seek users responses in terms of Agree Disagree No Response in that the results are analyzed by the race of the respondents. For example correlation to race such as White Hispanic Asian African American Other can be provided by the distribution server with total numbers and percentages of total responses of each choice. Then statistical methods are applied on the responses to arrive at various statistical figures for further interpretations of the analysis.

Analyzing responses for Agree Disagree No Response type of questions based on other criteria involves survey questions based on ideology military background football team affiliations affiliations to sport teams etc. Again statistical methods are applied on the responses to arrive at various statistical figures.

The analysis of survey questions that ask respondents to select high priority ones from a list of issues presented involve prompting users of the client mobile devices to rate or select top two of the answers in a list of issues presented. The first and second choices of users may be reported to the distribution server along with combination of first and second selections for each of the issues. Alternatively the users may be requested to prioritize the entire answer sets from 1 through 5 for example.

Analyzing questions that ask users to select a satisfaction level for an issue for example performance of a politician involves soliciting satisfaction level by providing choices such as very satisfied somewhat satisfied somewhat dissatisfied very dissatisfied and don t know refuse to answer the responses are totaled for similar responses. For example the totals for very satisfied and somewhat satisfied are added and reported too and so are totals for somewhat dissatisfied and very dissatisfied.

A network such as combination of Internet and mobile networks communicatively couple the client mobile devices to the distribution server . To fulfill various aspects of the present invention the distribution server contains a plurality of modules. The distribution server contains survey questionnaire collection module that gathers survey questionnaire from various sources a questionnaire source tags them and distributes them to a plurality of client mobile devices . The tagging criteria tags may include region race age other criteria high priority and satisfaction level among other possibilities. The criteria tag information is obtained from questionnaire source and may include one or more tags per each set of questionnaire. The questionnaire source may be users of the distribution server who login to the server to have a survey done on various issues that are pertinent to them. The users of the distribution server also provide criteria for statistical analysis the results of such analysis are delivered back to them once the survey and analysis are completed. The survey questionnaire collection module also gathers client mobile device or user information such as those that shop at a certain departmental store such as Wal Mart those that espouse a preference for one political party or another and those that have various levels of education 

In addition to analyze based upon certain criteria tag the distribution server contains criteria based analysis modules such as region based analysis module race based analysis module age based analysis module other criteria based analysis module high priority analysis module and satisfaction level analysis module . Once responses are received by the distribution server from the plurality of client mobile devices the responses are diverted to appropriate criteria based analysis modules and or for further statistical analysis of the responses. A survey questionnaire follow up module gathers results of the analyses from the criteria based analysis modules and or formats them to a presentable form and sends them back to the corresponding user of the distribution server . The user of the distribution server may login and view the results or the results may be sent to the user via email.

In one embodiment of the present invention an external server not shown is the questionnaire source. The external server also does analysis of the responses while the distribution server just delivers survey questionnaire to plurality of mobile devices and sends responses back to the external server. In this embodiment the distribution server is much more simplified. In addition the survey questionnaire may have an audio preamble with multiple choices provided in audio form and the responses are received in the form of clicking choices 1 though 3 agree disagree and no response respectively for example. In another embodiment the presentation of survey questionnaire may take form of audio visual presentation with multiple choices provided. The user may be provided with options to choose between textual presentation audio presentation or audio visual presentation. In addition in survey questionnaire where a perspective of one party such as a political party or business view point the distribution server may also provide an option to view an opposing perspective or view point before the user makes up his mind to answer the questions.

For example a user of the distribution server may be a scientist who wants certain statistical analysis of people as related to a disease. The user prepares a list of survey questionnaire in a format that is in accordance with the present invention refer to for detailed description of various formats and analysis criteria and submits them to the distribution server . The distribution server distributes the list of survey questionnaire after adding relevant criteria tags and then gathers responses. These responses are diverted to one or more of criteria based analysis modules and or for appropriate analyses as requested by the user of the distribution server and the results are formatted in a presentable manner and delivered back to the user by the survey questionnaire follow up module .

In one embodiment the distribution server is employed for organization of political campaigns and distributing questionnaires related to political campaigns for various elections such as presidential elections. The questionnaires are sent to one or more individuals onto their mobile devices as part of a survey of voter sentiments on particular issues. When voter responses are received they are analyzed for regional spread of answers. This involves analyzing responses by region such as Northeast Midwest south west etc. Thus it if possible for a campaign to get information on regional trends. In particular the distribution server makes it possible to specify states that belong to the regions and also to tally up subtotals by the regions. The distribution server also is capable of analyzing responses for Agree Disagree type questions. For such questions for each question in the questionnaire typical responses can be Agree Disagree and No Response. The totals can be in terms of number of responses numbers for each of those choices and the percentage too. Then these responses can be analyzed by region with total numbers and percentages for each region for each of the choices. Furthermore the same responses can be analyzed by age group for example employing age groups of 18 24 25 34 35 54 55 69 and 70 .

Similarly the responses to questionnaires can be analyzed with correlation to other behavior of the users such as those that shop at a certain dept. store such as Wal Mart those that espouse a preference for one political party or another and those that have various levels of education 

The distribution server also makes it possible to analyze responses for Agree Disagree type questions based on race. This makes it possible to determine if individuals of a particular race have a certain disposition towards agreement on certain issues. When questions that seek users responses in terms of Agree Disagree NS the results can be analyzed by the race of the respondents. For example correlation to race such as White Hispanic Asian African American other can be provided with total numbers and percentages of total responses of each choice. It is also possible to analyze responses to Agree Disagree type questions based on other criteria. Such criteria for analyzing user responses to Agree Disagree NS type questions can be ideology military background football team affiliations affiliations to sport teams etc.

Analyzing questions that ask respondents to select high priority ones from a list of issues presented makes it possible for a candidate to determine which issue interests the voters the most. In some questions a list of issues are presented and the respondent is prompted to a rate or select the top 2 or so issues. The 1st and 2nd choices of respondents can be reported by the distribution server along with combination of 1st and 2nd selections for each of the issues.

Quite often a satisfaction level question is asked of voters to determine if they are satisfied with the performance of a current government or satisfied with a certain policy position. Analyzing questions that ask respondents to select a satisfaction level for an issue or performance of a politician is also supported by the distribution server . When a satisfaction level is solicited with choices being Very satisfied Somewhat satisfied Somewhat not satisfied Very unsatisfied and Don t know refused the responses can be totaled for similar responses. For example the totals for very satisfied and somewhat satisfied can be added and reported too and so are totals for somewhat not satisfied and very unsatisfied.

The distribution server also comprises a demographic profiles database or collection which is employs to analyze the responses received from users to questionnaires surveys. It also employs that to selectively target individual users in a related embodiment for questionnaires and surveys. In a different embodiment demographic profiles database or collection comprises references to demographic profile stored externally at a different server or database to which access is acquired as needed.

In one embodiment to provide an incentive for respondents to not only provide answers to a questionnaire but also provide details of themselves sort of a responder demographic profile the responders are provided with free SMS services such as 10 free SMS messages free ring tones or free data services for a month or a free mobile TV services for a period. When a responder provides responses to a questionnaire if he also provides a responder demographic profile information or access and a reference such as an URN to one stored at a server the distribution server or some other server the responder is awarded the incentive associated and the distribution server notifies the responder and also manages the delivery of the services or product associated.

In general the client mobile devices store a user s demographic profile or a reference to it which they communicate to the distribution server selectively along with responses to questionnaires surveys. In one embodiment the demographic profile is devoid of any user identification such as name address Social security number etc. that may be misused by unauthorized users. Instead in this embodiment demographic profile comprises data such as race information political affiliations age information salary information family size information etc.

In general the client mobile devices retrieve a user s demographic profile from a website such as the one used to register their accounts for interactions with the distribution server . The client mobile devices retrieve such user s demographic profile and store them locally to be reused for all questionnaires to be provided selectively when requested with their authorization permission to the distribution server along with responses to questionnaires. In one embodiment the client mobile devices locally store a reference such as a username or identification to the demographic profile stored in a server such as a web portal associated with the distribution server or at the distribution server . They then provide the locally stored reference along with responses to questionnaires typically when a request is made for such demographic information in configuration information for questionnaires such as in configuration information in XML files comprising the questionnaires. For example the users of the client mobile devices may register at a web portal provided by or associated with the distribution server provide demographic information obtain a username or identification for their account then use that username or identification in responses provided to questionnaires in order to enable access to their pre created created once and reused in all questionnaires demographic information. Thus the distribution server or alternate servers used to analyze responses on receiving the responses to questionnaires along with a reference to the demographic information such a reference can be an URI a username an identification etc. retrieves the required demographic profiles using the references provided and analyzes the responses.

Although the present invention is described in terms of client mobile devices it should be clear that the present invention applies to any electronic devices that receive questionnaires and enable a user to respond to those questionnaires. Such electronic devices typically comprise a communication circuitry and at least one non volatile memory having stored therein one or both of firmware and software. They also comprise at least one processor operably coupled to the non volatile memory and a demographic profile reference stored in the non volatile memory. The processor s employ the communication circuitry to communicate with a distribution server. The distribution server supports delivery of a questionnaire to the electronic device and it also processes responses from the electronic device. The electronic device receives a questionnaire from the distribution server and displays it to a user. It also receives the user s input and gathers a response. It then communicates the response to the distribution server along with the demographic profile stored in the electronic device or a reference to such demographic profile stored externally in a server a portal a database etc. If the questionnaire is accompanied by a demographic profile reference the electronic device does not change that and instead returns the same demographic profile reference with the user s response. Otherwise if the questionnaire itself is not accompanied by a demographic profile reference the electronic device returns the locally stored demographic profile reference or the locally stored demographic profile data with the user s responses.

In one embodiment such an electronic device employs a communication circuitry available to communicate with a distribution server that supports delivery of a questionnaire to the electronic device the distribution server also being capable of processing responses from the electronic device. The electronic device receives a questionnaire from the distribution server and displays it to a user. The electronic device receives the user s inputs to the various questions and gathers a response. The electronic device communicates the response to the distribution server along with the demographic profile reference. The demographic profile reference can be a URN to a demographic data for the user stored locally in the electronic device or stored remotely at a web portal a server a database etc. The distribution server retrieves the demographic data for the user if necessary and as necessary to analyze the response and categories the response.

Questionnaires displayed by the client mobile devices comprise of multiple choice questions where a user has to select one or more of the choices presented for each question. Questionnaires also comprise of question sets presented in multiple rows of a tabular form wherein for the entire set a valid set of choices or answers are applicable. For example a set of choices agree disagree don t care with index values 1 2 and 3 can apply to a set of 10 questions presented in a tabular form wherein for each question in the set the user can enter select a value of 1 2 or 3 corresponding to the choices presented.

Tables are often employed in traditional Internet based questionnaires wherein a user is asked to select one of a set of standard responses for a list of issues. Unfortunately such a table is inappropriate for a mobile device especially if the set of standard responses often presented as columns is large. This is due to several reasons including ease of use problems or readability problems. The present invention makes it possible to present tables of questions each that can be answered with one of a common set of multiple choice answers by converting such tables into a set of one questions that require on single numeric for example an index entry of an answer wherein the numeric entry corresponds to an identification or position of the associated multiple choice entry in the multiple choice presented at the beginning for the set and presented whenever requested by activating a menu item . Thus in one embodiment for the tables with common set of multiple choice answers the distribution server converts that into a format where the multiple choice answers each with a numeric reference or an index are presented first followed by a set of questions that accept the numeric entry for the user s selections accompanied by a supplementary window of information that can be displayed whenever necessary that comprises the multiple choice answers too for easy reference.

In one embodiment of the present invention the distribution server makes it possible to support questionnaires with 2 dimensional tables wherein questions are in the rows of the tables and multiple choice answers that are common to all the questions is in the columns of the table. The distribution server facilitates by modifying its structure and instead of using a table for a user to view a list of issues is displayed one per row with each issue row also providing for a text entry that accepts a numeric entry. The numeric entry is provided so that a user could entry a value indicating the selection of one specific response from the selection of responses for example an index corresponding to one of the multiple choice selections . The selection of responses i.e. the allowed responses are displayed first along with an corresponding index or ordinal value or other numbering schemes just preceding the display of the list of questions perhaps with one question per issues in the questionnaire. In one embodiment the selection of responses the multiple choices available for example are also provided as supplementary information for the corresponding item the set of questions of the questionnaire that can be optionally viewed or listened to in audio by the user.

For some questions in a questionnaire that are flagged as savable the client mobile devices provide a screen that comprises a Save Image menu item for the user to save the current image displayed and the Save audio menu item to save the current audio. Both should be saved in local flash memory. The saved files are stored in a user data segment where the user can find them later using file manager etc. Being data driven the screen displaying such questions with savable items provide the additional menu items that help a user save audio video text and images if any. This feature is useful for some interesting activities such as a user saving an audio jingle and an image from a mobile advertisement inserted into a questionnaire as one of the items in the questionnaire with some downloadable content such as an image an audio etc. .

The present invention can be used in election campaigns to send out questionnaires with a candidates stated positions and questions soliciting a voter s feedback on the candidates stated positions issues of interest. The distribution server supports creating a survey questionnaire for an election campaign. It also supports uploading a survey questionnaire created on a PC using an appropriate tool. The questions of the survey questionnaire is aimed at a candidate s issues and each question of the survey questionnaire comprises the candidate s voice statement a multiple choice selection and a textual description. The distribution server supports managing the election campaign for an election by determining a plurality of voters as targets for the survey questionnaire based on their demographic profile data.

Local storage may be random access memory read only memory flash memory a disk drive an optical drive or another type of memory that is operable to store computer instructions and data. The local storage includes a survey questionnaire collection module region based analysis module race based analysis module age based analysis module other criteria based analysis module high priority analysis module satisfaction level analysis module survey questionnaire follow up module questionnaire database and response database to facilitate collection and distribution of survey questionnaire criteria based analysis of the responses and delivery of results in accordance with the present invention.

The network interfaces contain wired and wireless packet switched interfaces and may also contain built in or an independent interface processing circuitry . The network interfaces allow the distribution server to communicate with client mobile devices such as . The manager interfaces may include a display and keypad interfaces. These manager interfaces allow the user at the distribution server to control aspects of the present invention. The client mobile device illustrated is communicatively coupled to the distribution server via a network .

The survey questionnaire collection module collects survey questionnaire sets from a questionnaire source includes criteria tags such as region race age other criteria high priority and satisfaction level as given by the questionnaire source and distributes them to the client mobile device . Alternatively an external server not shown may format the survey questionnaire include tags and deliver such sets to the survey questionnaire collection module . The survey questionnaire collection module also collects user information from the client mobile device as relevant to the survey questionnaire.

The criteria based analysis modules that is region based analysis module race based analysis module age based analysis module other criteria based analysis module high priority analysis module and satisfaction level analysis module process the responses that are received by the distribution server appropriately and perform statistical analysis of the responses. Alternatively an external server not shown may perform statistical analysis of the responses as appropriate in this case the distribution server bypasses the criteria based analysis modules and or . The survey questionnaire follow up module gathers results of the analyses from the criteria based analysis modules and or formats them to a presentable form and sends them back to the corresponding user or an external server. The questionnaire database keeps data pertaining to the survey questionnaire and response database keeps record of the responses for future use.

In other embodiments the distribution server of the present invention may include fewer or more components than are illustrated as well as lesser or further functionality. In other words the illustrated distribution server is meant to merely offer one example of possible functionality and construction in accordance with the present invention.

The illustration shows a title such as WELCOME TO THE SURVEY . The screen also contains a helpful text such as Please respond to the following survey . Additional information about the purpose of the survey may be provided in prior screens. The survey questionnaire illustrated exemplifies a typical business related survey questionnaire wherein the user of the distribution server of expects region based analysis of the responses. The questionnaire reads XYZ Inc. manufactures computer peripherals. and the multi choice answers given are Strongly Agree Somewhat Agree Neutral Somewhat Disagree and Strongly Disagree . The user may select a choice such as neutral as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 or exit from the survey by clicking on soft key 2 . Once selected the distribution server may present next of the survey questionnaire automatically user of the client mobile device may exit from the survey anytime though. In addition a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio version of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response to the audio questionnaire. Similarly if available a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio visual presentation of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response.

In this case of region based analysis the distribution server analyses the responses statistically based upon the responses from a plurality of client mobile devices. The regions may be for example states within a region relevant user profile for such an analysis is also collected by the distribution server.

A title such as WELCOME TO THE SURVEY may be displayed at the top end of the display screen . The screen also contains a helpful text such as Please respond to the following survey . Additional information about the purpose of the survey may be provided in prior screens. The survey questionnaire illustrated exemplifies a typical politics related survey questionnaire wherein the user of the distribution server of expects age based analysis of the responses. The questionnaire reads Decreasing voting age makes teens responsible citizens. and the multi choice answers given are Strongly Agree Somewhat Agree Neutral Somewhat Disagree and Strongly Disagree . The user may select a choice such as neutral as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 or exit from the survey by clicking on soft key 2 . Once selected the distribution server may present next of the survey questionnaire automatically user of the client mobile device may exit from the survey anytime though. In addition a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio version of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response to the audio questionnaire. Similarly if available a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio visual presentation of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response.

In this case of age based analysis the distribution server analyses the responses statistically based upon the responses from a plurality of client mobile devices. The ages may be for example groups of 18 24 25 34 35 54 55 69 and 70 relevant user profile for such an analysis is also collected by the distribution server.

A title such as WELCOME TO THE SURVEY may be displayed at the top end of the display screen . The screen also contains a helpful text such as Please respond to the following survey . Additional information about the purpose of the survey may be provided in prior screens. The survey questionnaire illustrated exemplifies a typical science related survey questionnaire wherein the user of the distribution server of expects race based analysis of the responses. The questionnaire reads Melanin determines skin cancer prevalence among different races. and the multi choice answers given are Strongly Agree Somewhat Agree Neutral Somewhat Disagree and Strongly Disagree . The user may select a choice such as neutral as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 or exit from the survey by clicking on soft key 2 . Once selected the distribution server may present next of the survey questionnaire automatically user of the client mobile device may exit from the survey anytime though. In addition a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio version of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response to the audio questionnaire. Similarly if available a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio visual presentation of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response.

In race based analysis the distribution server analyses the responses statistically based upon the responses from a plurality of client mobile devices. The races may be for example White Hispanic Asian African American and Other relevant user profile for such an analysis is also collected by the distribution server.

A title such as WELCOME TO THE SURVEY may be displayed at the top end of the display screen . The screen also contains a helpful text such as Please respond to the following survey . Additional information about the purpose of the survey may be provided in prior screens. The survey questionnaire illustrated exemplifies a typical social science related survey questionnaire wherein the user of the distribution server of expects race based analysis of the responses. The questionnaire reads Military background instills discipline in other aspects of life. and the multi choice answers given are Strongly Agree Somewhat Agree Neutral Somewhat Disagree and Strongly Disagree . The user may select a choice such as neutral as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 or exit from the survey by clicking on soft key 2 . Once selected the distribution server may present next of the survey questionnaire automatically user of the client mobile device may exit from the survey anytime though. In addition a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio version of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response to the audio questionnaire. Similarly if available a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio visual presentation of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response.

In other criteria based analysis the distribution server analyses the responses statistically based upon the responses from a plurality of client mobile devices. Other criteria may involve survey questions based on ideology military background football team affiliations affiliations to sport teams etc. and relevant user profile for analysis of such survey questionnaire is also collected by the distribution server.

A title such as WELCOME TO THE SURVEY may be displayed at the top end of the display screen . The screen also contains a helpful text such as Please respond to the following survey by selecting your top two choices . Additional information about the purpose of the survey may be provided in prior screens. The survey questionnaire illustrated exemplifies a typical education and job related survey questionnaire wherein the user of the distribution server of expects high priority analysis of the responses. The questionnaire reads You are satisfied with at least having and the multi choice answers given are Job with higher education Job With Specialized Skills Higher Education Job Without Specialized Skills But With Higher Education Job Without Higher Education and Job Without Specialized Skills Without Higher Education . The user may select two top priority choices out of five choices given such as Job with higher education and Job With Specialized Skills Higher Education as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 or exit from the survey by clicking on soft key 2 . Once two choices are selected the distribution server may present next of the survey questionnaire automatically user of the client mobile device may exit from the survey anytime though. In addition a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio version of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select two of multi choice answers in response to the audio questionnaire. Similarly if available a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio visual presentation of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select two of multi choice answers in response. In high priority based analysis the distribution server analyses the responses statistically based upon the responses from a plurality of client mobile devices.

A title such as WELCOME TO THE SURVEY may be displayed at the top end of the display screen . The screen also contains a helpful text such as Please respond to the following survey . Additional information about the purpose of the survey may be provided in prior screens. The survey questionnaire illustrated exemplifies a typical business related survey questionnaire wherein the user of the distribution server of expects satisfaction level based analysis of the responses. The questionnaire reads Indicate your level of satisfaction with Mr. MNR as CEO of XYZ Inc. and the multi choice answers given are Very Satisfied Somewhat Satisfied Don t Know Refuse to Answer Somewhat Dissatisfied and Very Dissatisfied . The user may select a choice such as Don t Know Refuse to Answer as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting by using soft key 1 or exit from the survey by clicking on soft key 2 . Once selected the distribution server may present next of the survey questionnaire automatically user of the client mobile device may exit from the survey anytime though. In addition a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio version of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response to the audio questionnaire. Similarly if available a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio visual presentation of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to select one of multi choice answers in response. In satisfaction level based analysis the distribution server analyses the responses statistically based upon the responses from a plurality of client mobile devices.

A title such as WELCOME TO THE SURVEY may be displayed at the top end of the display screen . The screen also contains a helpful text such as Please respond to the following survey . Additional information about the purpose of the survey may be provided in prior screens. The survey questionnaire illustrated exemplifies a typical business related survey questionnaire. The questionnaire reads many survey questions and the multi choice answers given are 1 Strongly Agree 2 Somewhat Agree 3 Neutral 4 Somewhat Disagree and 5 Strongly Disagree . The user may select a choice between 1 and 5 as illustrated by scrolling using buttons and selecting a number from keypad send all of the choices by clicking soft key 1 or exit from the survey by clicking on soft key 2 . The user may scroll through the screen to see the bottom part of the table. In addition a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio version of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to enter a number representing each of the multi choice answers in response to the audio questionnaire. Similarly if available a selectable icon such as when selected plays audio visual presentation of the survey questionnaire and allows the user to enter a number representing each of the multi choice answers.

In general the present invention makes it possible to support survey questionnaires by modifying its structure to a tabular form and instead of using a multi column table for a user to view a list of issues is displayed one per row with each issue row also providing for a text box that accepts a numeric entry. The numeric entry is provided so that a user could enter a value indicating the selection of one specific response from the selection of responses. The selection of responses i.e. the allowed responses are displayed first along with a corresponding index ordinal value or other numbering schemes such as 1 Strongly Agree 2 Somewhat Agree 3 Neutral 4 Somewhat Disagree and 5 Strongly Disagree just preceding the display of the list of issues for the item in the questionnaire. In one embodiment the selection of responses are also provided as supplementary information for the corresponding item of the questionnaire that can be optionally viewed or listened to in audio by the user. In another embodiment if wide screen is available multi column tabular questionnaire may also be employed with first column containing the issue and the subsequent columns representing choices such as Strongly Agree Somewhat Agree Neutral Somewhat Disagree and Strongly Disagree . The user may simply go to the corresponding row and column and select it by using one of the soft keys.

At a next block the distribution server processes the survey questionnaire and inserts criteria tags. The processing may include formatting the questionnaire to fit each individual client mobile device based upon the screen size and the number of soft keys available. The survey questionnaire may be formatted as one question per screen with multi choice answers or multiple questions per screen in a tabular form. The criteria tags may include region based analysis race based analysis age based analysis other criteria based analysis high priority analysis and or satisfaction level analysis.

At a next block the distribution server distributes the survey questionnaire to the plurality of client mobile devices. At a next block the distribution server collects responses from the client mobile devices. The collecting of responses may go on until a preset expiry date stops the process of collecting responses. At a next block the distribution server analyzes the responses by diverting responses to corresponding criteria based analysis modules based upon criteria tags. The analysis may take form of one of region based analysis at a block race based analysis at a block age based analysis at a block other criteria based analysis at a block high priority analysis at a block and or satisfaction level analysis at a block among other possibilities. At a next block the distribution server send all of the analyzed responses to the questionnaire source.

The terms circuit and circuitry as used herein may refer to an independent circuit or to a portion of a multifunctional circuit that performs multiple underlying functions. For example depending on the embodiment processing circuitry may be implemented as a single chip processor or as a plurality of processing chips. Likewise a first circuit and a second circuit may be combined in one embodiment into a single circuit or in another embodiment operate independently perhaps in separate chips. The term chip as used herein refers to an integrated circuit. Circuits and circuitry may comprise general or specific purpose hardware or may comprise such hardware and associated software such as firmware or object code.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the terms operably coupled and communicatively coupled as may be used herein include direct coupling and indirect coupling via another component element circuit or module where for indirect coupling the intervening component element circuit or module does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. As one of ordinary skill in the art will also appreciate inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two elements in the same manner as operably coupled and communicatively coupled. 

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed. Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

Moreover although described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding by way of the aforementioned embodiments the present invention is not limited to such embodiments. It will be obvious to one of average skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be practiced within the spirit and scope of the invention as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

