---

title: Method and system for a universal remote control
abstract: A method and system for a universal remote control used with display devices that support automatic content recognition (ACR) are described. The remote control may be paired to the display device and may receive a trigger signal from the display device that corresponds to an interactive event overlay displayed on the display device as a result of the ACR operations. The pairing may occur through the use of near field communication (NFC) signals and/or WiFi signals. A graphical user interface (GUI) may be generated for display on a screen of the remote control device that corresponds to the interactive event overlay. The screen may be a touch-screen that enables the user to interact with the remote control through the GUI. The remote control may communicate one or more signals to the display device in response to user input received by the remote control device from information provided through the GUI.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210467&OS=09210467&RS=09210467
owner: TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM, INC.
number: 09210467
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121228
---
This application makes reference to claims priority to and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 596 012 filed on Feb. 7 2012.

Each of the above referenced applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to smart televisions. More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for a universal remote control.

Smart or connected televisions TVs may receive data from data networks such as Internet networks that allow a viewer to not only access broadcast digital content but also receive multimedia content. In addition viewers without Smart TVs can access additional content via a smart phone or tablet. With the proliferation of connected TVs and wireless communication devices such as smartphones and tablets content or network providers now have a plethora of avenues for distributing media including programming advertisements and interactive content.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for a universal remote control substantially as shown in and or described in accordance with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for a universal remote control. The universal remote control may be operable to control one or more devices including but not limited to display devices that support automatic content recognition ACR . ACR may be utilized in systems to assign interactive events to specific portions of video content to enable user participation with the video content being presented by for example a display device. A display device may refer to a connected or smart television TV or other like device that a user may utilize to watch video content. In various embodiments of the invention the universal remote control may be paired to the display device.

The universal remote control which may also be referred simply as a remote control or remote control device may receive a trigger signal from the display device that corresponds to an interactive event overlay that is displayed on the display device as a result of the ACR operations. The pairing between the remote control device and the display device may occur through the exchange or use of near field communication NFC protocol signals and or WiFi signals for example. Once the trigger signal is received a graphical user interface GUI may be generated for display on a screen of the remote control device. The GUI displayed on the screen of the remote control may correspond to the interactive event overlay displayed on the display device. The screen may be a touch screen that enables the user to interact with the remote control by touching the icons buttons selections gestures and or other graphical images that are presented on the GUI. The remote control may communicate one or more signals to the display device in response to user input received by the remote control device from the information that is presented to the user through the GUI.

In some embodiments of the invention the universal remote control may generate a default GUI to enable interaction with the display device and or with another device such as a set top box STB and or a home theater system. In response to a trigger signal corresponding to an interactive event overlay the universal remote control may replace the default GUI with another GUI that enables the user to carry out the desired interaction with the appropriate device. In this manner the user need not have one remote control that controls the operations of a set top box for example and another remote control that controls the operations of a connected TV. Instead the user may utilize a single device to control the set top box functionality and to participate with the interactive events presented to the user in the form of a graphical overlay on the connected TV. The information that is necessary for a particular GUI to be generated and or displayed on a screen of the universal remote control may be at least partially received by the universal remote control from the display device.

The universal remote control may be operable to change between different modes of operation based on whether an interactive event is taking place and or based on the type of interactive event. For each of these modes of operation a corresponding GUI may be generated and displayed that enables the user to participate in the interactive event or interactive opportunity that corresponds to that particular mode. In some instances the same GUI may be utilized to support different modes of operations.

For the ACR systems described herein fingerprinting may refer to a process by which features of a video frame and or of an audio frame may be analyzed to create representations i.e. fingerprints for each piece of content for example. The fingerprints may be unique to each piece or sequence of content and may be highly robust against broadcast distortions such as re encoding aspect ratio frame rate up down conversion and pitch correction to name a few. The fingerprints may be stored in a reference database in an ACR system such that unidentified content e.g. content from a network television feed may be identified by comparing fingerprints taken of the unidentified content with the stored fingerprints.

Event identifiers which indicate interactive events for user participation may be assigned by a network time protocol server while real time fingerprint servers may communicate the video fingerprints and the assigned event identifiers to corresponding fingerprint match systems. In some instances the fingerprint match systems may be operated by a third party e.g. television manufacturers vendors etc. as hosted services over the Internet e.g. cloud computing etc. . Each of the fingerprint match systems may communicate with devices e.g. connected TVs tablets smartphones etc. that utilize the same video fingerprint technology utilized by the fingerprint server that corresponds to that fingerprint match system. These devices may be referred to as viewer devices display devices or end user devices for example.

The fingerprint match systems receive video and or audio fingerprints from the display devices and compare them to the ones received from the real time fingerprint servers. When a match occurs the fingerprint match systems may notify the end user or display devices that an interactive event is to take place if there is an event identifier that corresponds to the matched fingerprints. When an event is to take place the display device may be operable to generate and or display a graphical overlay that it may display concurrently with the corresponding video content. Once a user is presented with the graphical overlay to indicate that an interactive event is available a universal remote control may be operated to enable the user to interact with the display device to participate in the interactive opportunity being presented.

The automatic content recognition described herein may be utilized across several platforms including connected TVs from various manufacturers as well as smartphones and tablets. Since television viewing may be rapidly evolving from a single screen experience to a multiple screen experience television networks may need to automatically identify the context of what a viewer is watching and the time in the program both during a live television broadcast and in subsequent viewings such as when a program is being reproduced by a digital video recorder DVR . In multi screen viewing experiences for example companion applications on second screen devices may also be utilized to interact with the television programming.

Having the ability to identify context and program timing may enable a network to increase audience engagement extend viewing times and provide program sponsors additional ways to engage with the audience such as offering viewers personalized advertising offers or creating a second screen experience during an advertisement break. These features may be implemented by having a central video fingerprint repository and management platform that facilitates triggering interactive events across various platforms regardless of the ACR vendor solution e.g. fingerprinting technology . For example an ACR system may utilize a single broadcast ACR solution to support connected TVs from multiple vendors as well as second screen devices running companion applications. Such a system may be scalable and additional ACR vendor solutions may be added. Moreover such as system may handle both real time and pre recorded offline content.

Below are described various examples of aspects related to a system that supports ACR operations. These exemplary aspects may comprise the system architecture processes application programming interfaces APIs and or web based services. The system may enable the user to participate in interactive opportunities that are presented in connected TVs or other like devices. A user may interact with the connected TV by utilizing a universal remote control that provides the appropriate graphical and or functional information for each interactive opportunity. For example the universal remote control may provide a GUI with appropriate selections options responses actions choices and or navigational tools e.g. up down left right arrows which enable a user to respond to different types of interactive opportunities such as trivia questions games polls user preferences content selection and the like.

The ACR system may comprise an offline fingerprint module a monitor application module a real time event manager RTEM a plurality of RTFSs . . . fingerprint match systems end user devices an applications and analytics module and a timeline event creation module . In some instances at least some of the functions of the monitor application module and of the RTEM may be combined and may be provided by a common device or component of the ACR system .

The ACR system may also comprise an NTP server that is operable to provide synchronization to various parts of the ACR system via a common reference clock. For example the NTP server may be operable to synchronize the operation of the RTEM with the operation of the RTFSs . . . . The operations of the NTP server may be based on for example the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF RFC 5905 Network Time Protocol Version 4 Protocol and Algorithms Specification. 

The offline fingerprint module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to handle the offline fingerprinting portion of the operations performed by the ACR system . The offline fingerprint module may be operable to receive pre recorded or offline content such as commercials programs and promotions for example. In this regard the offline fingerprint module may be able to ingest and process content with defined interactivity. The monitor application module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to process a network television feed and the content handled by the offline fingerprint module to create a real time timeline and or real time event triggers. During the process the monitor application module and or the timeline event creation module may interact with backend analytics databases that comprise user engagement data for example. Some of the operations that may be performed by the offline fingerprint module may comprise for example ingest operations storage operations monitoring operations and or content version comparison operations.

The RTEM may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to manage real time events based on inputs provided by one or more sources. For example the RTEM may be operable to manage real time events based on events stored in an interactive timeline archive a network schedule and or those provided by an interactive director that may assign interactive event IDs to live programming as the network television feed is being fingerprinted in real time. Moreover the RTEM may be operable to trigger interactive events in legacy systems and or in web based systems. The RTEM may be referred to as a real time event trigger infrastructure for example. The RTEM may comprise a real time event inserter RTEI not shown which is operable to insert the events into the RTFSs . . . .

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the RTEM may be operable to instruct the monitor application module and or the timeline event creation module to record the fingerprints associated with a live program as well as to store the corresponding set of events created during the live program in the interactive timelime archive. This enables playback of the program with interactivity even after expiration of the corresponding fingerprints in the vendor s third party database. This may occur in instances when there is a re broadcast of the live event at a subsequent date. In the case of timeline based devices the events may be stored and timeline retrieval may be enabled even during the active window of the corresponding fingerprints since there will be no available event to fingerprint association.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the RTEM may be operable to receive one or more inputs from a user e.g. an interactive director and to generate based on those inputs interactive event identifiers that can be communicated to the fingerprint servers where they can be associated with or assigned to the video fingerprints generated by the fingerprint servers. The RTEM may be operable to communicate the interactive event identifiers to a television system e.g. legacy system and or to a web system. The interactive event identifiers may be utilized in the television system and or in the web system to trigger interactive events. Moreover the communication of the interactive event identifiers may be based on one or more of an EBIF an HTTP live streaming HLS a satellite network protocol or some other protocol.

In an embodiment of the invention the Real time event manager may be operable to generate one or more signals that provide instructions to the RTFSs . . . to enable the identification of a network television station based on the logo symbol sign watermark and or text that are typically utilized to represent the network television station. The instructions may be related to information that is to be generated and or provided to the end user devices for network television station identification. The instructions may indicate the type of information that is to be provided to the end user devices and or when such information is to be provided. In some instances a portion of the ACR system other than the Real time event manager or in conjunction with the Real time event manager may generate the signals for providing instructions to the RTFSs . . . .

The RTFSs . . . may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to handle fingerprinting and fingerprint communications to the fingerprint match systems . Since each vendor or television manufacturer is likely to utilize its own fingerprint technology each of the RTFSs . . . may be a dedicated server for each of the fingerprint technologies supported by the ACR system . In some embodiments of the invention a portion of the RTFSs . . . may be operable to perform video fingerprinting while the remaining portion of the RTFSs . . . may be operable to perform audio fingerprinting or some combination thereof. Fingerprint technologies from multiple vendors may utilize different computations to perform fingerprinting of video and or audio frames. For example each fingerprint technology may utilize a specific set of algorithms parameters operations and or data processing methods for example.

In an embodiment of the invention the RTFSs . . . may be operable to receive one or more signals from the Real time event manager and or from another portion of the ACR system to enable the identification of a network television station based on the logo symbol sign watermark and or text that are typically utilized to represent the network television station. The instructions may be utilized to determine and or provide locations to the end user devices to take fingerprints of the video content being displayed on a viewing screen. In some instances at least a portion of the fingerprinting locations may be provided by the Real time event manager and or by another portion of the ACR system through the instructions received by the RTFSs . . . . In other instances the fingerprinting locations may be determined by the RTFSs . . . based on locally and or remotely stored information. Each fingerprinting location may comprise coordinates in a video frame e.g. x coordinates y coordinates that indicate a particular region in the video frame to fingerprint.

The RTFSs . . . may provide the fingerprinting locations for communication to the end user devices for example in the form of fingerprint profiles. The fingerprint profiles may comprise fingerprinting locations and or other information to be utilized by an end user device for ACR fingerprinting. In some instances the fingerprint profiles may be generated by the RTFSs . . . in response to the instructions received. In other instances the fingerprint profiles comprising the fingerprinting locations may be received by the RTFSs . . . from the Real time event manager and or from another portion of the ACR system . The fingerprint profile of a particular end user device may be updated based on an indication that additional and or different locations may be needed during fingerprinting to identify the network television station logo or symbol being displayed on a viewing screen at the end user device . The update may be generated by the corresponding RTFS and then communicated to the end user device or may be received by the corresponding RTFS from the Real time event manager and or from another portion of the ACR system and then communicated to the end user device .

The indication that a fingerprint profile update may be needed may be the result of network operations that recognize that certain content is being broadcast by several network television stations concurrently e.g. State of the Union address . In such instances the fingerprinting locations being utilized may not analyze the region in a video frame where the logo of the network television station is displayed. Thus providing additional fingerprinting locations in this region may enable detection and identification of the logo and consequently of the network television station.

The indication that a fingerprint profile update may be needed may also be the result of feedback provided by an end user device . The feedback may indicate for example that the content being displayed has been identified but that the content may have originated in any one of several sources and the particular source of the content has not been identified. In such instances the fingerprinting locations being utilized may not analyze the region in a video frame where the logo of the network television station is displayed. Thus providing additional fingerprinting locations in this region may enable detection and identification of the logo and consequently of the source of the content.

In some instances the fingerprint profile and or the fingerprint profile update received by an end user device may comprise information that indicates to the end user device that any additional fingerprinting locations may be utilized automatically when the source e.g. network television station of a particular content is not initially identified.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the RTFSs . . . may be operable to communicate fingerprint profiles and or fingerprint profile updates to the end user devices through the fingerprint match systems . Feedback and or queries from the end user devices may be received by the RTFSs . . . for processing. The RTFSs . . . may in turn communicate information corresponding to the feedback and or queries from the end user devices to the Real time event manager and or to another portion of the ACR system for further processing.

The fingerprint match systems may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to enable hosted services in the Internet for matching fingerprints produced by the RTFSs . . . with fingerprints produced by the end user devices . Each of the fingerprint match systems corresponds to a particular ACR or fingerprint technology. In this regard each of the fingerprint match systems may be supported by a third party such as a TV manufacturer for example.

The fingerprint match systems may be operable to compare fingerprints produced by the end user devices with fingerprints provided by the RTFSs . . . . When matches occur the fingerprint match systems may indicate that interactive events are to take place in the end user devices . These interactive events may allow a viewer to be presented with information on the screen or display of an ACR based device and to interact with the device based on the information presented.

The end user devices may comprise a plurality of devices such as connected TVs connected TV with paired devices e.g. tablets and second screen devices such as smartphones and tablets for example. The ACR based devices may be referred to as end user devices for example. Since each of the fingerprint match systems supports a different ACR or fingerprint technology those end user devices that support a particular fingerprint technology are operable to communicate with the corresponding fingerprint match systems that support the same fingerprint technology. Moreover when a secondary or paired device that supports a particular fingerprint technology is used that device may also be able to communicate with the corresponding fingerprint match system that supports the compatible fingerprint technology.

The end user devices may be operable to receive and utilize a fingerprint profile and or a fingerprint profile update and to take fingerprints in a pre determined number of locations in a video frame. Each fingerprinting location may be defined by a set of coordinates that describe a region in the video frame where a fingerprint of the video content is to be taken. The end user devices may be operable to receive a series of fingerprint profiles and or fingerprint profile updates and may be operable to adjust ACR fingerprinting accordingly.

In some embodiments of the invention an end user device may be paired to a remote control not shown to enable a user to interact with the end user device through the remote control. The remote control may support one or more than one pairing technique. For example the remote control may be paired to the end user device by utilizing NFC protocol signals and or WiFi signals. The remote control may be a universal remote control that may be operable to control the operations of the end user device and of one or more additional devices. The remote control may be operable to present the user with a GUI that provides graphical information that corresponds to the interactive event being presented to the user by the end user device . When an interactive event is not being presented the GUI may be a default GUI with general controls or functionality. When an interactive event is being presented the GUI may change and may comprise graphical and or functional information that is enhanced and or may be different from that provided by the default or standard GUI.

The applications and analytics module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to provide data to the end user devices determine what platforms are to be served and when these platforms are to be served handle communications with third party partners and advertisers handle communication with backend analytics databases and determine unique responses for a given device request e.g. fix targeting .

The timeline event creation module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to produce a timeline of the content in a program or show based on information provided by the monitor application module . The timeline event creation module may then provide the timeline created to the applications and analytics module to have the timeline disseminated to the appropriate End user devices that may not support event to fingerprint association. Once the End user devices have the timeline for a particular program or show they may monitor the program or show relative to the timeline and launch appropriate event requests when a specified point in the timeline indicates that a particular event is to take place.

Communication between the RTFSs . . . and the fingerprint match systems may occur through one or more wireless and or wireline communication links. Similarly communications between the fingerprint match systems and the end user devices and or the applications and analytics module may occur through one or more wireless and or wireline communication links. The communication links described above may support one or more communication protocols. For example communication protocols based on Internet Protocol IP may be typically used. Accordingly the RTFSs . . . the fingerprint match systems and the applications and analytics module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces to enable the use of the communication protocols.

In operation the monitor application module and or the RTEM may generate and or handle event identifiers or event triggers that correspond to specific times in a program. These event identifiers may be generated from live programming from a network schedule or from information provided by the offline fingerprint module . The event identifiers may be assigned to the appropriate fingerprints generated by the RTFSs . . . . Since each RTFS relies on a different fingerprint technology system synchronization is needed to appropriately assign the event identifiers to the right spot on a video and or audio sequence. Such synchronization may be achieved by the use of a common reference clock provided by the NTP server .

Each of the RTFSs . . . may communicate the event identifiers and the fingerprints to its corresponding one of the fingerprint match systems . The fingerprint match systems in turn receive fingerprints from their corresponding end user devices and try to match those fingerprints to the ones received from their corresponding RTFSs . . . . When a match occurs the event identifier and or other information may be passed to the appropriate ACR based device. With this information the ACR based device may obtain for example interactive information e.g. graphics from the applications and analytics module . For example a connected TV may receive code or data specific for that device from a content management system CMS via a cloud based content delivery network CDN . There may be other actions performed by the user in connection with the interactive event and or other information presented or produced in connection with the interactive event. The interactive information may be displayed by the end user device and a universal remote control may be utilized by a user to interact with the end user device in response to the interactive information displayed. There may be other actions performed by the user in connection with the interactive event and or other information presented or produced in connection with the interactive event.

In operation the ACR system may generate a fingerprint profile that may be communicated to one of the end user devices . The fingerprint profile may be communicated through one or more of the Real time event manager one of the RTFSs . . . and one of the fingerprint match systems . The fingerprint profile may comprise locations where the end user device is to take fingerprints of the video content being reproduced by the device. Once the content is identified based on the fingerprints taken and subsequently matched in the corresponding fingerprint match system it may be determined that the source of the content is not known. Knowing the source of the content may be needed in some instances to enable interactive events associated with that source on the end user device. Otherwise an interactive event from for example one network television station may occur when a viewer is watching programming provided by a different network television station.

When the source of the content is not known the end user device may automatically utilize additional locations provided in the fingerprint profile or in a fingerprint profile update. These locations may correspond to the region in the video frame where the network television station logo or symbol is typically placed. Once these fingerprints are taken they may be compared to fingerprints of the network television station logo or symbol at the corresponding fingerprint match systems . When a match occurs and the logo is identified the end user device may be able to receive interactive event identifiers from the corresponding RTFS. Once these interactive event identifiers are received the end user device may communicate with the applications and analytics module to enable the interactive events to occur.

Also shown in are various end user devices such as connected TVs with paired devices and connected TVs without paired devices and mobile devices such as smartphones e.g. iPhone Android etc. and tablets e.g. iPad Samsung Galaxy etc. . A paired device associated with the connected TVs may be a tablet smartphone or other like devices for example. The end user devices may be operable to utilize the same video fingerprinting technology e.g. video ACR utilized by the video RTFS and supported by the video fingerprint vendor . The video fingerprint vendor may be a vendor manufacturer or other third party service provider that may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces operable to provide hosted services over the Internet e.g. cloud computing etc. for the end user devices . These services may comprise video fingerprint matching as well as the delivery of any interactive event IDs associated with a match. The services may also comprise the communication of fingerprint profiles and or other related information to the end user devices and or the reception of feedback and or queries from the end user devices to be communicated to the video RTFS . In addition the video fingerprint vendor may provide a network television station identifier and or network timing information e.g. heartbeat message or NTP based network timestamp that may be utilized by the end user devices for ACR related applications and or to maintain synchronization with the network television feed. The end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to take and send video fingerprints to the video fingerprint vendor for matching.

The end user devices may be operable to utilize the same video fingerprinting technology utilized by the video RTFS and supported by the video fingerprint vendor . The video fingerprinting technology utilized by the end user devices may be different from that utilized by the end user devices . The video fingerprint vendor may be a vendor manufacturer or other third party service provider that may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces operable to provide hosted services over the internet for the end user devices . These services may comprise video fingerprint matching as well as the delivery of any interactive event IDs associated with a match. The services may also comprise the communication of fingerprint profiles and or other related information to the end user devices and or the reception of feedback and or queries from the end user devices to be communicated to the video RTFS . In addition the video fingerprint vendor may provide a network television station identifier and or network timing information that may be utilized by the end user devices for ACR related applications and or to maintain synchronization with the network television feed. The end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to take and send video fingerprints to the video fingerprint vendor for matching.

The end user devices and may be operable to communicate with a second device e.g. smartphones tablets that may be paired to the parent device. In this regard the second device may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to take and send video and or audio fingerprints to a corresponding video fingerprint vendor for matching or enable suitable pairing with the parent device to provide analogous functionality.

The end user devices may utilize the same video fingerprinting technology utilized by the video RTFS and supported by the video fingerprint vendor . The video fingerprint vendor may be a vendor manufacturer or other third party service provider that may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces operable to provide hosted services over the Internet for the end user devices . These services may comprise video fingerprint matching as well as the delivery of any interactive event IDs associated with a match. In addition the video fingerprint vendor may provide a network television station identifier and or network timing information that may be utilized by the end user devices for ACR related applications and or to maintain synchronization with the network television feed. The end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to take and send video fingerprints to the video fingerprint vendor for matching.

The end user devices may utilize the same audio fingerprinting technology e.g. audio ACR utilized by the audio RTFS and supported by the audio fingerprint vendor . The end user devices may be referred to as second screen devices for example. The audio fingerprint vendor may be a vendor manufacturer or other third party service provider that may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces operable to provide hosted services over the Internet for the end user devices . These services may comprise audio fingerprint matching as well as the delivery of any interactive event IDs associated with a match. The services may also comprise the communication of audio fingerprint profiles and or other related information to the end user devices and or the reception of feedback and or queries from the end user devices to be communicated to the audio RTFS . Audio fingerprint profiles may comprise information related to the characteristics e.g. segments frequencies of the audio fingerprints to be taken by the end user devices . In addition the audio fingerprint vendor may provide a network television station identifier and or network timing information that may be utilized by the end user devices for ACR related applications and or to maintain synchronization with the network television feed. The end user devices may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to take and send audio fingerprints to the audio fingerprint vendor for matching.

The RTFSs . . . may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to perform fingerprinting of content received from the network television feeds. Each video RTFS may utilize a different video fingerprinting technology or computation from that utilized by the other video RTFSs. Similarly when more than one audio RTFS is utilized its audio fingerprint technology or computation may be different from that utilized by the other audio RTFSs. That is since each vendor supports a different technology for handling fingerprinting dedicated RTFSs may be needed for each vendor and for that vendor s corresponding end user devices. The RTFSs . . . may be operable to send fingerprints interactive event IDs television network station identifiers and or network timing information to their corresponding fingerprint vendors through one or more networks e.g. wireline networks wireless networks and or by utilizing one or more communication protocols.

The RTFSs . . . may be operable to handle instructions and or information that enable the identification of a network television station based on the logo symbol sign watermark and or text that are typically utilized to represent the network television station. In this regard the RTFSs . . . may be operable to handle instructions and or information as described above with respect to the RTFSs . . . that are illustrated in for example.

The RTEM may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to perform real time event triggering. In this regard the RTEM may be operable to manage real time events based on inputs from different sources. For example the RTEM may comprise a pre recorded event trigger module to provide real time triggering from the monitor application module shown in a time scheduled event trigger module to schedule the occurrence of a trigger based on a broadcast schedule and a live event trigger module each of which is operable to handle a different type of input.

The pre recorded event trigger module may be operable to receive real time event triggers from the timeline event creation module described above with respect to . These interactive event IDs may be stored in the interactive timeline archive and may be utilized by the pre recorded event trigger module to assign interactive events via for example defined APIs to fingerprints generated as the network television feeds are fingerprinted by the RTFSs . . . .

The time scheduled event trigger module may be operable to receive a network or broadcast schedule and to assign based on the network schedule interactive events to fingerprints generated as the network television feed is fingerprinted by the RTFSs . . . . The network or broadcast schedule can be in XML format or in some other structured data format for example.

The live event trigger module may be operable to received interactive event IDs assigned by an interactive director to live programming. The interactive director may be an operator that is responsible for inserting events into the live broadcast. For pre produced content for example the interactive director may watch an episode and may determine when an interactive element is to take place when to push a trivia question when to push a fun fact when to drive social engagement and or when to share a clip or post a comment. For live content for example the interactive director may determine when to trigger a poll question and may manage the prompting of interactive games and determine when to trigger particular questions to engage viewers in a friendly competition. For advertisement for example the interactive director may determine when to bring up an offer when to prompt to prepare for interaction or interaction event and or determine how long to leave interactive content on screen based on frequency rules and or time of day. When advertisement is pre fingerprinted for example interactive advertisement activities may occur automatically.

The RTEM may also be operable to trigger interactive events in legacy television systems and or in web based systems. The infrastructure provided by the RTEM may support the triggering of interactive events against applications and set top boxes STBs via enhanced television binary interchange format EBIF hypertext transfer protocol HTTP live streaming HLS via ID3 tags and satellite delivery systems e.g. DISH DirectTV via the appropriate mechanism on the corresponding STB software platform. For HLS an ID3 tag may be utilized for sending interactive event IDs for example.

The RTEM may be operable to assign interactive event IDs to particular fingerprints in a sequence of audio or video fingerprints generated by the RTFSs . . . . The RTEM may also be operable to provide television network station identifiers and or network timing information associated with any sequence of fingerprints.

In the example shown in the RTFSs . . . may correspond to the RTFSs . . . the fingerprint vendors . . . may correspond to the fingerprint match systems and the end user devices . . . may correspond to the end user devices which are illustrated in .

The RTEM may be operable to handle instructions and or information that enable the identification of a network television station based on the logo symbol sign watermark and or text that are typically utilized to represent the network television station. In this regard the Real time event manager may be operable to handle instructions and or information as described above with respect to the Real time event manager that is illustrated in for example.

In operation the RTEM may generate and or handle one or more interactive event IDs that correspond to a particular set of fingerprints generated by the RTFSs . . . . The RTEM may have determined the interactive event IDs based on live event inputs time scheduled event inputs and or pre recorded event inputs. The RTEM may assign or associate the interactive event IDs to their appropriate fingerprints based on the synchronization of its operation to the operation of the RTFSs . . . via broadcast NTP. The RTEM may also provide television network station identifiers and or network timing information to the RTFSs . . . . The RTFSs . . . may communicate the fingerprints interactive event IDs the television network station identifiers and or the network timing information to their corresponding fingerprint vendors.

The client or end user devices may take and send fingerprints to their corresponding fingerprint vendors which in turn determine whether there is a match with the fingerprints received from the RTFSs. Upon detection or determination of a match the fingerprint vendors may return to the viewer device various pieces of information including but not limited to network timing information and any interactive event ID that is triggered as a result of the match.

The portion in may also illustrate the implementation of an abstraction layer that enables the ACR system to assign the same interactive event identifiers to different sets of video and or audio fingerprints that are generated from different fingerprint technologies. That is by appropriately timing the assignment of interactive event identifiers to multiple sequences of fingerprints that are generated from the same video content but with different fingerprinting technologies the ACR system may be able to support fingerprinting technologies from multiple vendors. Such implementation may provide flexibility by enabling a vendor to update its fingerprinting technology without affecting other fingerprinting technologies. Moreover the architecture of the ACR system may provide scalability by enabling new or additional fingerprint technologies from other vendors or from the same vendors to be added and supported.

Referring to there is shown a portion of the ACR system that may comprise the end user devices . . . and the fingerprint vendors . . . shown in . Also shown are application data servers an analytics module a rules engine a cloud based content delivery network CDN and a content management system CMS . In addition shows a user response module and third party partners advertisers .

The application data servers may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to receive from a viewer device information related to an interactive event ID a network television station fingerprinted broadcast time CID and additional data and or a device type. The information may be provided by the viewer device in response to a match between a fingerprint taken by the device and a fingerprint taken by the corresponding RTFS. Once a match occurs and the viewer device obtains the appropriate information from its corresponding fingerprint vendor the viewer device may communicate the information to the application data servers which in turn returns the appropriate content that corresponds to the interactive event ID and related data in a callback. Content may be pushed to a second screen or device paired with a connected TV that is logged in to an appropriate application or Web page. For example content may be provided to a remote control device that is paired to an end user device for display on a screen of the remote control device. When the remote control device comprises a touch screen the remote control device may enable a user to interact with the corresponding end user device through the touch screen.

The application data servers may be operable to send information to the analytics module as to what kind of interactions e.g. clicks selections options viewing behavior on a given broadcaster s network are taking place in a viewer device. The application data servers may be operable to handle the flow of user response data with third party partners and or advertisers . The user response data may comprise but need not be limited to TV IDs coupon IDs and event IDs for example. Communication of the user response data between the application data servers and the third party partners advertisers may be handled by the user response module for example. The application data servers may be operable to call the CMS for text banners graphics overlays and or video for example.

The application data servers may also be operable to deliver event schedules to end user devices to deliver correct content uniform resource locator URL based on the type of viewer device to integrate with a variety of back end systems to integrate with polling servers not shown to integrate with gaming services such as leader boards and or to integrate with customer databases such as those used in connection with store user preferences and social circle members for example. With respect to integrating with back end systems the application data servers may for example integrate with social networks for storage of tweets for later playback and or to filter comments and push back to applications.

The rules engine may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to determine which platforms e.g. end user devices are to be served and when are those platforms to be served by the application data servers . The rules engine may be preconfigured and or dynamically configured.

The CMS may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store the content that is delivered to the end user devices. For example content that may be delivered may comprise text banners graphics overlays and video. Other examples of content may comprise polls and fun facts clips to share games and trivia and advertising content. These examples are provided by way of illustration and not of limitation. Accordingly other examples of contents that may be utilized for user interactive events with the end user devices may also be stored in the CMS .

The CMS may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to enable communication between the application data servers and the CDN . The CMS is operable to post assets to the CDN . ACR based devices are operable to download the assets graphics banners overlays video etc from the CDN .

The analytics module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to receive user interaction information from the application data servers or directly from the viewing devices. The analytics module may be operable to communicate with the fingerprint vendors . . . to receive information and determine what is being watched or viewed in various viewer devices. The analytics module may comprise one or more back end databases to store mange and or process user information.

In operation content may be provided by the application data servers to one of the end user devices . . . in response to receiving an interactive event ID a network television station device type and other data from that viewer device. Rules regarding which viewer device is to be served and when the device may be served may be determined by the rules engine . The content to be served by the application data servers to the viewer device may be stored in the CMS .

The analytics module may determine which viewers are interacting with content and what those viewers are watching based on information received from the application data servers or directly from the viewing devices. Viewer responses that result from interactive events may be handled by the user response module which in turn communicates with third party partners advertisers .

The third party partners advertisers may comprise and or be connected to advertisement servers and or one or more fulfillment systems. The advertisement servers may be utilized to deliver advertisement overlays to ACR based applications running on end user devices. The advertisement servers may also be operable to support the tracking of user impressions and click throughs and or to perform other advertising related functions.

The fulfillment systems may utilize one or more technologies to fulfill viewer requests that occur in connection with ACR based applications and user interaction. Examples of such technologies may comprise but need not be limited to coupon delivery technologies technologies for movie ticket purchases and delivery and or short message service multimedia messaging service SMS MMS gateways.

The set top box may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to receive content from a cable or satellite provider for example and process the content for communication to the end user device for display. The set top box may comprise storage capabilities that enable digital recording and playback of the content received from the cable or satellite provider.

The end user device may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to receive process and display content. The end user device may be a connected TV a home theater system or other like system that may be utilized to display content and that supports ACR operations. The end user device may be operable to support at least one High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI to receive encrypted uncompressed digital audio video data. The end user device may also be operable to support one or more digital copy protection schemes such as High Bandwidth Digital Content Protection HDCP . While HDMI and HDCP are described above as being supported by the end user device the invention need not be so limited and other interface technologies and or data protection technologies may also be supported.

The remote control device may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to control at least a portion of the functionality of the set top box and at least a portion of the functionality of the end user device . The remote control device may be operable to enable pairing with the end user device through the exchange of one or more NFC protocol signals. Once the pairing is completed the remote control device may be utilized to enable user participation in interactive events presented by the end user device . The communication that may occur between the remote control device and the end user device once the pairing is complete may be performed by more conventional techniques such as infrared IR communication for example.

In operation when the remote control device is in communication with the set top box as illustrated by reference A the remote control device may be operable to control features and or functions of the set top box . For example the remote control device may be operable to perform channel selection video on demand page navigation recording playback and or other features and or functions supported by the set top box .

Similarly when the remote control device is paired to the end user device and is in communication with the end user device as illustrated by reference B the remote control device may be operable to control features and or functions of the end user device and may be operable to enable interactive opportunities between a user and the end user device. For example the remote control device may be operable to change the volume and or picture formats on the end user device . Moreover when an interactive opportunity is presented the remote control device may be operable to provide a user with appropriate selections options responses actions choices and or navigational tools e.g. up down left right arrows which enable the user to respond to different types of interactive opportunities such as trivia questions games polls user preferences content selection and the like.

Referring to there is shown a different approach for pairing the end user device with the remote control device . As shown in the remote control device may utilize image or video capture capabilities to capture an image of the set top box as illustrated by reference C and an image of the end user device as illustrated by reference D. The images may be communicated by the remote control device to a database through a network . The database may utilize the images to determine information corresponding to the set top box and to the end user device . This information may be communicated back to the remote control device through the network . Additionally if the remote control device is already paired with end user device then the make and model of set top would be discoverable via communication with the end user device based on HDCP negotiation between the end user device and the set top Discovery of set top form end user device would eliminate the need to capture an image of the set top in order to obtain the correct information for remote to control set top .

With respect to the set top box the information received by the remote control device may comprise control codes and or additional functionality that may be utilized to control the operations of the set top box . The remote control device may generate a GUI or other graphical user interface that enables the control of the operations of the set top box . In this regard the information received by the remote control device from the database may comprise graphical information that may be utilized to generate and display the GUI utilized to control the set top box .

With respect to the end user device the information received by the remote control device may comprise control codes and or additional functionality that may be utilized to control the operations of the end user device . The remote control device may generate a GUI or other graphical user interface that enables the control of the operations of the end user device . In this regard the information received by the remote control device from the database may comprise graphical information that may be utilized to generate and display the GUI utilized to control the end user device .

Also received by the remote control device may be a Media Access Control MAC address of the end user device . As shown in the remote control device may utilize the MAC address which may represent the address of the end user device in a home network to pair the remote control device with the end user device . In some embodiments of the invention the home network may be a WiFi network and the pairing of the remote control device with the end user device may occur through the exchange of WiFi signals for example.

The remote control device may be operable to support more than one pairing approach and to select one of those approaches to initiate and complete the pairing with the end user device . While NFC and WiFi have been described above with respect to the pairing operations the invention need not be so limited and other close proximity communication technologies and or networking technologies may also be utilized.

The processor module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to perform the operations functions processes computations and the like described herein with respect to remote control devices that may be utilized for enabling interaction with a display device during an interactive event. In this regard the processor module may be operable to perform control and or user interaction functions as well the generation and display of graphical user interfaces to enable the performance of those control and or user interaction functions.

The processor module may enable the remote control device to operate in one of many modes. Each of the modes may correspond to a device that is being controlled by the remote control device . Moreover for any display device being controlled the remote control device may utilize more than one mode based on the interactive opportunity that is being presented to the user.

The processor module may also be operable to handle pairing operations with a display device. In this regard the processor module may enable the selection of a pairing approach from multiple pairing approaches supported by the remote control device . In some instances a particular pairing approach may be a default approach and another pairing approach is not utilized unless the default pairing approach is unable to complete the pairing process.

The processor module may comprise at least one processing device . The processing device may be a central processing unit CPU a digital signal processor DSP and or other type of integrated circuit that may be utilized to perform data processing operations. The processing device may utilize an operating system that enables the execution of the various operations and functions described herein with respect to remote control devices.

The memory module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to store information utilized to enable control operations including but not limited to operations that enable interactive opportunities. The network module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to allow the remote control device to communicate with other devices and or with one or more networks. The network module may be operable to support one or more communication protocols such as wireline protocols and or wireless protocols. For example the network module may be operable to support the exchange of NFC protocol signals and or WiFi signals.

The network module may enable communication between the remote control device and a paired device utilizing wireless signals. The communication need not be through a network. Instead the communication may be directly between the remote control device and the paired device. In this regard the network module may support one or more wireless communication technologies to enable the communication with a paired device.

The I O interface module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to enable a user of the remote control device to interact with the device.

The video display module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to process graphical information for reproduction. For example the video display module may be utilized to display graphical user interfaces for device control and or for user interaction. The video display module may comprise a display that may comprise a screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD plasma display light emitting diode LED display for example for video reproduction. In some instances the display may comprise a touch screen that enables a user to interact with the remote control device through the display . In this regard the I O interface module may be operable to handle inputs provided by the user through the touch screen.

The audio reproduction module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to process audio content for reproduction. In some instances the audio reproduction module may comprise speakers not shown for audio reproduction.

The IR communication module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to generate infrared signals to send commands or other control functions to one or more devices. In this regard the IR communication module may be utilized to support legacy devices in which commands or control functions are received through infrared signals.

The image capture module may comprise suitable logic circuitry code and or interfaces that may be operable to capture and process images or video. The image capture module may be utilized to capture images for pairing operations for example. The image capture module may comprise an image sensor e.g. CMOS sensor CCD sensor and image processing hardware and or software.

In operation the control functions and interactive operations may be handled by the processor module in the remote control device . Graphical user interfaces that enable the control functions and interactive operations may be displayed by the video display module . Communication between the remote control device and another device including but not limited to a paired device may be carried out by the network module and or the IR communication module . User input provided to control a device and or to participate in an interactive event may be handled by the I O interface module . In this regard when the display comprises a touch screen user input may be handled by both the display and the I O interface module .

Referring to when an interactive opportunity is presented to the user through the end user device the remote control device may change modes and that change may result in an updated or a different graphical user interface. In this scenario a graphical user interface different from the graphical user interface shown in may be displayed on the screen of the remote control device when an interactive event overlay is displayed on the end user device . The interactive event overly may result from a triggering mechanism associated with ACR operations or from a metadata comprised within the video content stream such as ID3 tags in an MP3 file for example. The graphical user interface may enable the user to participate in the interactive event corresponding to the interactive event overlay . Once the interactive event overlay is no longer displayed that is the interactive event is completed or it is over the remote control device may return to its previous mode or to another mode and may display a graphical user interface that corresponds to the current mode.

In an embodiment of the invention the change in the screen or graphical user interface from its default interface may occur automatically when an event triggering mechanism e.g. ID3 tags in an MP3 stream ACR operation is received by the remote control device . The default interface may be based on a selected input on the end user device e.g. connected TV home theater receiver . With HDMI and or HDCP a user may not need to program the default interface. For example the end user device is on HDMI 1 and the HDCP negotiation indicates that the set top box is a Motorola set top box as well as the corresponding model number. This approach may also be utilized to download control codes for the set top box without having to use an image matching operation. Once the make and model number of the set top box are known the default interface may be one that is suitable for a Motorola set top box on HDMI 1.

Referring to there is shown an example of the change in operating mode and graphical user interface described above with respect to . As shown in the end user device may display content associated with a talk show. The operating mode of the remote control device may be such that a graphical user interface is presented that enables channel control for the set top box and volume control for the end user device .

In the host of the talk show welcomes a guest which in this exemplary scenario is the actor Steve Carrell. During the interview an interactive event overly is displayed on the end user device . Since the end user device and the remote control device are paired the presence of the interactive event overly is notified to the remote control device which in turn may change its mode of operation and graphical user interface. In this example the graphical user interface is now displayed on the screen of the remote control device . The graphical user interface comprises content pushed to the remote control device from the end user device . The content may comprise a picture of the actor some information about the actor some information about a new movie being discussed during the interview and or other like information. The content may be determined based on a selection between multiple options related to the interview being shown on the end user device . For example a first option Option 1 button may be selected or chosen when the user would like to get more information about the new movie and a second option Option 2 button may be selected or chosen when the user is not interested in additional information about the new movie. When the first option is selected additional content may be pushed or received by the remote control device regarding the new movie. When the second option is selected the interactive event may be terminated and the interactive event overlay may be removed. Once the interactive event is terminated or completed the remote control device may return to its initial mode or to another mode of operation.

The scenarios described in are provided by way of illustration and not of limitation. Different interactive event overlays graphical user interfaces functional operations and or information may be utilized to enable a remote control device to provide an interactive platform from which to participate in interactive events while also providing controlling functionality to control the operation of one or more devices.

Referring to there is shown a flow chart in which at step a remote control device may capture an image of a device to be controlled such as a connected TV home theater receiver or set top box for example. At step the image of the device may be sent to a database for handling. The database may determine whether there is a match for the image and information corresponding that match. At step the remote control device may receive from the database control codes and functionality corresponding to the device to be controlled. At step the remote control device may be configured based on the control codes and functionality received. For example the remote control device may change its mode of operation and its graphical user interface as a result of the control codes and functionality received. At step the pairing of the device to be controlled and the remote control device may be completed.

Referring to there is shown a flow chart in which at step a remote control device may generate and display a graphical user interface for a default mode of operation based on HDMI and or HDPC information of a display device. At step the remote control device may detect that an interactive event has been triggered by an event triggering mechanism. In this regard the remote control device may detect a signal or some other indication that corresponds to the event triggering mechanism which may be received from the display device. At step in response to the detection of the interactive event the remote control device may switch or change from a default mode of operation which may correspond to a set top box control screen for example to a TV mode of operation that enables control of the display device for interactive operations. At step the remote control device may generate and display a graphical user interface for the TV mode.

At step the remote control device may detect that the interactive event is over. In this regard the remote control device may detect a signal or some other indication that corresponds to the completion or termination of the interactive event and that is received from the display device. At step in response to the detection that the interactive event is over the remote control device may switch back to its default mode of operation. At step the remote control device may generate and display a graphical user interface for the default mode.

In another embodiment of the invention a method is described in which a remote control such as the remote control device may be paired with a display device such as the end user device which may be operable to perform automatic content recognition on video content. The remote control device may generate one or more NFC protocol signals to pair the remote control device with the display device. A trigger signal may be received in the remote control device from the display device. The trigger signal may correspond to an interactive event overlay e.g. interactive event overly being displayed on the display device. The remote control device may generate a graphical user interface GUI for display on a screen e.g. display of the remote control device that corresponds to the interactive event overlay. The screen may comprise a touch screen for example. Moreover the remote control device may communicate one or more signals to the display device in response to user input received by the remote control device from information provided through the GUI. The communication may be performed by for example the network module and or the IR communication module described above with respect to .

In another aspect of this embodiment of the invention the remote control device may capture an image of the display device. In this regard the image may be captured utilizing the image capture module described above with respect to . The remote control device may receive graphical and functional information corresponding to a default GUI from a database e.g. database based on the captured image. The remote control device may generate the default GUI for display on the screen of the remote control device. The remote control device may be operable to replace the default GUI with the GUI that corresponds to the interactive event overlay after reception of the trigger signal.

In another aspect of this embodiment of the invention the remote control device may capture an image of the display device and may receive based on the captured image a MAC address of the display device in a local wireless network e.g. home network comprising the display device. The remote control device may be paired with the display device utilizing a wireless connection based on the MAC address received. The wireless connection may comprise a WiFi connection.

In yet another aspect of this embodiment of the invention the remote control device may capture an image of a set top box e.g. set top box communicatively coupled to the display device. The remote control device may receive graphical and functional information corresponding to a default GUI from a database e.g. database based on the captured image. The remote control device may generate the default GUI for display on the screen of the remote control device. The remote control device may replace the default GUI with the GUI that corresponds to the interactive event overlay after reception of the trigger signal.

Another embodiment of the invention may provide a non transitory machine and or computer readable storage and or media having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for a universal remote control.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

