---

title: Tensioning apparatuses for occupant restraint systems and associated systems and methods
abstract: Tensioning apparatuses for occupant restraint systems and associated systems and methods. In one embodiment, an occupant restraint system for a vehicle can include a flexible web configured to extend across at least a portion of an occupant seated in the vehicle and an electrically actuated web retractor operably coupled to a proximal end portion of the web. The web retractor is configured to automatically wind and unwind the web. The system also includes an acceleration sensor operably coupled to the electrically actuated web retractor. The acceleration sensor is configured to send an electrical signal to the web retractor in response to a vehicle acceleration above a preset magnitude. In response to the signal, the web retractor is configured to (a) retract the web, and/or (b) at least temporarily prevent the web from moving inwardly or outwardly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08632131&OS=08632131&RS=08632131
owner: AmSafe, Inc.
number: 08632131
owner_city: Phoenix
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121008
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 569 522 filed Sep. 29 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 101 085 filed Sep. 29 2008 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This application is also related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 029 292 entitled PERSONAL RESTRAINT SYSTEMS AND ASSOCIATED TENSIONING APPARATUSES filed Feb. 15 2008 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The following disclosure relates generally to tensioning apparatuses for occupant restraint systems and associated systems and methods.

Conventional occupant restraint systems such as those used in passenger vehicles typically include one or more webs or belts to restrain passengers in their seats. One type of restraint system for example includes a shoulder web and a lap web. Other restraint systems have more than two webs e.g. two shoulder webs a lap web and a crotch web to more adequately restrain passengers during impacts that can cause dislocation of the passengers in the vertical direction.

The present disclosure describes tensioning apparatuses for occupant restraint systems and associated systems and methods. Many specific details are set forth in the following description and in to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. Other details describing well known structures and systems often associated with restraint systems and related vehicle structures however are not set forth below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the various embodiments of the disclosure.

Many of the details and features shown in the Figures are merely illustrative of particular embodiments of the disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments can have other details and features without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will understand that further embodiments can be practiced without several of the details described below. Furthermore various embodiments of the disclosure can include structures other than those illustrated in the Figures and are expressly not limited to the structures shown in the Figures. Moreover the various elements and features illustrated in the Figures may not be drawn to scale.

In the illustrated embodiment the restraint system includes a plurality of webs or belts extending around the occupant and operably coupled to the vehicle and or the web tensioning subsystem . As used herein webs can include any type of flexible straps or belts such as seat belts made from woven material as is known in the art for use with personal restraint systems. In the illustrated embodiment for example the restraint system is a five point restraint system including shoulder webs identified individually as a first shoulder web and a second shoulder web lap webs identified individually as a first lap web and a second lap web and a crotch web operably coupled to a buckle assembly . In other embodiments however the restraint system can have other configurations. For example the restraint system can include a three point or four point restraint system. In still other embodiments a single lap web and or a single shoulder web may be used. Accordingly the present disclosure is not limited to the particular web configurations disclosed herein.

As best seen in the web tensioning subsystem includes a sensor assembly shown schematically and one or more web retractors two are shown as a first web retractor and a second web retractor . A proximal end portion of the first shoulder web is operably coupled to the first web retractor and a proximal end portion of the second shoulder web is operably coupled to the second web retractor . The first and second web retractors and are fixedly attached to a rear portion of the seat . The first and second web retractors and are each electrically coupled to the sensor assembly with an electrical link e.g. a wire electrical line connector etc. .

In the illustrated embodiment the first and second web retractors and are positioned behind the seat . In other embodiments however web retractors can be positioned at different locations in the vehicle such as to the side of the seat above the seat etc. Moreover although only two web retractors are shown in the illustrated embodiment a different number of web retractors can be operably coupled to the shoulder webs and or the lap webs . For example a third web retractor can be operably coupled to the lap webs in addition to the illustrated web retractors and operably coupled to the shoulder webs .

The sensor assembly can include one or more acceleration sensors e.g. accelerometers configured to sense vehicle accelerations and decelerations in one or more directions and send associated control signals to the web retractors . For example the sensor assembly can include at least one acceleration sensor configured to sense vehicle accelerations in the vertical direction along the Z axis and one or more additional sensors configured to sense accelerations in the fore and aft directions along the X axis and or laterally along the Y axis. In other embodiments the web tensioning subsystem can have a different arrangement and or include different features. For example the web tensioning subsystem can include one or more additional web retractors coupled to other webs. In addition the web retractors and or sensor assembly can be positioned at other locations on the seat or vehicle . Moreover the sensor assembly can include different features and or have a different number of acceleration sensors.

Referring back to together the shoulder webs and other webs e.g. lap webs crotch web etc. can include features typically associated with conventional webs and safety belts. For example the shoulder webs and lap webs can each include flexible segments of a fixed length and or adjustable length to accommodate different sized occupants. In the illustrated embodiment the lap webs and crotch web are fixedly secured to the seat e.g. to a seat frame and or directed to the vehicle and the shoulder webs are operably coupled to the web tensioning subsystem . In other embodiments however the lap webs and or crotch web can also be attached to the web tensioning subsystem or another retractor e.g. inertial reel to automatically adjust the fit of the webs in response to movement of the occupant . In still other embodiments lap webs and or other webs may be manually adjusted static etc.

Referring to together the first web retractor includes a base or mounting bracket that is fixedly attached to the vehicle e.g. a frame of the seat of a vehicle frame a vehicle mount etc. and provides a secure base for the components of the web retractor. A spool is carried by and rotatably mounted to the base . The spool is configured to receive a web or belt e.g. the first shoulder web and wind and unwind the webbing during normal operation as well as lock the webbing in place in the event of a sudden dynamic event to prevent the webbing from being released from the spool. The first web retractor can also include an actuator e.g. a DC electric motor linear motor rotary motor etc. to control operation of the spool . In other embodiments the actuator can include other suitable electrical mechanical pneumatic hydraulic and or electromechanical devices in addition to or in lieu of the DC motor in the illustrated embodiment.

The spool is fixedly attached to a rotating shaft having a a first end operably coupled to a gear assembly and b a second end operably coupled to a locking wheel . The gear assembly can include for example one or more gears positioned to provide a gear reduction for increased torque between the actuator and the shaft . The locking wheel includes a plurality of teeth spaced about a perimeter thereof. The first web retractor can also include a solenoid configured to lock unlock the spool in response to electrical signals from the sensor assembly . As best seen in the gear assembly can be positioned within a first housing the solenoid can be positioned within a second housing and the locking wheel can be positioned within a third housing

In operation the first web retractor is configured to adapt or modulate the tension of the restraint system in response to a detected predetermined event by activating the spool and winding up locking or paying out the webbing e.g. the first shoulder web . More specifically the sensor s of the sensor assembly can sense a vehicle acceleration above a preset magnitude e.g. during a rollover impact collision rapid deceleration or acceleration etc. . The sensor assembly sends a corresponding electrical signal to the first web retractor via the link . The actuator responds to the signal by rotating the spool and retracting the first shoulder web in the direction of arrow A to tension the shoulder web. In some instances the electrical signal can also energize the solenoid and cause the teeth of the locking wheel to engage an engagement structure as best seen in and prevent the spool from rotating. This can prevent the spool from paying out any webbing during the event. After the predetermined event the actuator can rotate the spool in the other direction and extend the first shoulder web in a direction opposite to the arrow A to reduce and or restore the pre event tension of the first shoulder web . In this manner the first web retractor as well as the other web retractors can repeatedly increase and decrease the tension of the shoulder webs in response to different predetermined events and or conditions.

During normal vehicle operation the activation circuit disables the sensor assembly and the web retractor . When the vehicle experiences an acceleration of above a predetermined magnitude in the X Y and or Z direction e.g. during a rollover the sensor assembly activates the activation circuit and transmits an electrical signal to the web retractor via the link . As described above the electrical signal causes the web retractor to at least temporarily lock the spool and prevent further extension of the web . After the duration of the event or if the forces associated with the predetermined event decreases the sensor assembly can notify the web retractor to adjust e.g. increase or decrease and or restore the tension to the attached web . In the illustrated embodiment for example the web retractor remains locked for a preset time or until a reset switch deactivates the activation circuit de energizing the web retractor . The reset switch can include a position sensor operably coupled to the web retractor .

In other embodiments the web tensioning subsystem can include different features and or have a different configuration. For example although the web tensioning subsystem illustrated in shows the components of the device operably coupled to each other one skilled in the art will appreciate that a number of the components of the subsystem may be combined or included in a single component.

The web tensioning subsystems and described above can be configured to provide different amounts of tension to the corresponding webs e.g. the shoulder webs based on different corresponding predetermined events. For example the web retractors can partially and or fully retract the shoulder webs to provide different amounts of tension. By way of illustration when the web tensioning subsystem is employed in an automobile the web tensioning subsystem can tension the shoulder webs with a first force in response to driving the automobile on rough or uneven terrain. After the rough terrain the web tensioning subsystem can restore the shoulder webs to their original tensions. If the automobile rolls over or is in an accident however the web tensioning subsystem can provide a second force greater than the first force to restrain the occupant in the seat . Moreover instead of providing discrete amounts of tension in other embodiments the web tensioning subsystem can provide an amount of tension that is proportional to the severity of the predetermined event.

One advantage of the restraint systems and associated web tensioning subsystems described above and disclosed herein is that they can secure an occupant in their seat when the vehicle experiences a rapid deceleration acceleration impact collision rollover etc. Another advantage of the tensioning apparatuses described above is that they can adjust the tension of the attached webs in response to different predetermined events and restore the webs to their original tension after the predetermined events. A further advantage of the tensioning apparatuses described above is that they can repeatedly adjust the tension of the attached webs in response to the different predetermined events.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the various embodiments of the disclosure. For example the occupant restraint systems described above with reference to may have different configurations and or include different features. Moreover specific elements of any of the foregoing embodiments can be combined or substituted for elements in other embodiments. For example the occupant restraint systems described in the context of specific vehicles e.g. automobile or aircraft systems can be implemented in a number of other types of vehicles e.g. non automobile or non aircraft systems . Certain aspects of the disclosure are accordingly not limited to automobile or aircraft systems. Furthermore while advantages associated with certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described in the context of these embodiments other embodiments may also exhibit such advantages and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the disclosure is not limited except as by the appended claims.

