---

title: Platform and game agnostic social graph
abstract: Social graphs may be determined for individual users belonging to affiliations in virtual spaces accessible via electronic social networks. Affiliations within one or more virtual spaces may be managed. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may comprise a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the given virtual space. Relationships within one or more electronic social network may be managed. A given relationship within a given electronic social network may represent a reciprocal relation between two or more users in the given electronic social network. Social graphs associated with individual users may be determined based on the affiliations within the one or more virtual spaces and the relationships within the one or more electronic social networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09578094&OS=09578094&RS=09578094
owner: Kabam, Inc.
number: 09578094
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121204
---
This disclosure relates to determining social graphs for individual users belonging to affiliations in virtual spaces accessible via virtual environments including but not limited to electronic social networks.

Systems exist for forming and or recognizing affiliations between users of virtual spaces e.g. video games or other virtual spaces . An affiliation may include an alliance guild cohort and or other affiliation with a discrete group of users. Typically however existing approaches involve affiliations limited to a single virtual space. Furthermore existing systems do not incorporate both affiliations in virtual spaces and relationships in social networks when determining a social graph for a given user.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system configured to a system configured to determine social graphs for individual users belonging to affiliations in virtual spaces accessible via virtual environments in accordance with one or more implementations. In exemplary implementations a group of users may belong to an affiliation within a first virtual space. For example the group of users may belong to an alliance within a social network game played in a social network virtual environment. The same affiliation may be transported to other virtual spaces such that the same group of users are affiliated in more than one virtual space. The affiliations in different virtual spaces which include substantially the same group of users may be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. Social graphs associated with individual users may be determined based on the affiliations within one or more virtual spaces as well as relationships within one or more electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. In some implementations social graphs associated with individual users may be determined based on the one or more overarching affiliations. In some implementations the system may include one or more of at least one virtual environment server at least one virtual space server and or other components.

The virtual environment server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a user module an environment module an interaction module a relationship module and or other modules. The user module may be configured to access and or manage one or more user profiles and or user information associated with users of the system.

The environment module may be configured to provide one or more virtual environments to users via the client computing platforms. As used herein a virtual environment may include one or more interactive electronic social media and or other virtual environments. Interactive electronic social media may include one or more of a social network a virtual space a micro blogging service a blog service or host a messaging service a message board a forum and or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users.

The interaction module may be configured to monitor interactions of the users with the virtual environment and or each other within the virtual environment. This may include monitoring for a given user one or more of times at which the given user is logged in to the virtual environment areas of the virtual environment the given user views or interacts with or in other users the given user interacts with the nature and or content of interactions of the given user with other users activities participated in within the virtual environment level powers or skill attained in the virtual environment inventory items obtained in the virtual environment and or other interactions of the given user with the virtual environment and or other users.

At a given time interaction module may determine a set of users that are currently engaged with the virtual environment and or a set of users that are currently not engaged with the virtual environment. Being engaged with the virtual environment may refer to being logged in to the virtual environment performing some action or interaction within the virtual environment within some period of time e.g. the last 2 minutes and or other taking some other action indicating ongoing and contemporaneous engagement with the virtual environment.

The relationship module may be configured to establish relationships between users within the virtual environment. Such relationships may include one or more of friendships connections followers social links and or other relationships. The relationship module may establish relationships based on relationship requests and acceptances received from users. Relationships may include one or more types of relationships that have a functional purpose or impact within the virtual environment and or one or more types of relationships that a social construct within the virtual environment that does not have a functional result.

The virtual space server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a space module a space account module a group module an overarching group module a communication interface module a synchronous communications module an affiliate status module an asynchronous communications module a privileges module an alert module a broadcast module and or other modules.

The space module may be configured to provide one or more virtual spaces to users via client computing platforms. As used herein a virtual space may include one or more social network games and or other virtual spaces. A virtual space may be provided via a virtual environment provided by the environment module of the virtual environment server. For example a user may be required to be engaged in a virtual environment in order to engage in a virtual space. According to various implementations one or more instances of a single given virtual space may be provided via one or more different virtual environments.

The space module may determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated e.g. via streaming via object position data and or other information from the virtual space server to the client computing platforms for presentation to users. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a location in the virtual space e.g. the location from which the view is taken the location the view depicts and or other locations a zoom ratio a dimensionality of objects a point of view and or view parameters. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.

An instance of a virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients e.g. the client computing platforms that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography express ongoing real time interaction by one or more users and or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances the topography may be a 2 dimensional topography. In other instances the topography may be a 3 dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space and or surface features of a surface or objects that are native to the space. In some instances the topography may describe a surface e.g. a ground surface that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein e.g. a simulation of gravity deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein . The instance executed by the computer modules may be synchronous asynchronous and or semi synchronous.

Within the instance s of a virtual space executed by the space module users may control characters objects simulated physical phenomena e.g. wind rain earthquakes and or other phenomena and or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein the term user character may refer to an object or group of objects present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element s may move through and interact with the virtual space e.g. non user characters in the virtual space other objects in the virtual space . The user controlled elements controlled by and or associated with a given user may be created and or customized by the given user. The user may have an inventory of virtual goods and or currency that the user can use e.g. by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element and or other items within the virtual space.

The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and or commands input by the users through the client computing platforms. The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat instant messages private messages voice communications and or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platforms. Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through the virtual space server and or the virtual environment server. Within the virtual space users may participate in a game. The game may be an activity within the space e.g. a virtual card or board game within the space or the game may actually be the space e.g. an online role playing game massively multiplayer online game a social online game and or other games .

The space account module may be configured to manage accounts associated with the individual users for individual virtual spaces. The accounts may include user information associated with the individual users. Such user information may include one or more of identification information inventory information financial information relationship information information related to the users determined by one or more other modules demographic information usage information past purchase history and or other information related to the users. The identification information may include one or more of a username an avatar name a real world identification and or other identification information. The inventory information may identify virtual objects virtual currency and or other assets available to the users. The virtual objects and or virtual currency available to a given user may include the virtual objects and or the virtual currency that is under the control of the given user within the virtual space. The financial information may include payment information such as an account identification that identifies an account that can be used by the user to purchase virtual goods and or virtual currency for use within the virtual space. The funds available in the account may include real world money or funds virtual money or funds that are not usable within the virtual space and or other funds.

The group module may be configured to a group module configured to establish and or manage affiliations within individual virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users. For example a first affiliation within a first virtual space may include a first user a second user and or a discrete set of other users. Examples of an affiliation may include an alliance a guild a faction a club an association a group a crew a band a clan a family fellowship a gang a league a partnership a syndicate a society a tribe a troop a company and or other affiliations that include a discrete group of individuals.

The group module may establish affiliations based on affiliation requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of an affiliation may be initiated by a single communication e.g. a request initiated by a given user requesting an affiliation between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of an affiliation may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. According to some implementations the group module may establish affiliations intrinsically within the virtual space e.g. faction mates are formed based on avatar configuration through recognized user behavior over time e.g. raid members or player versus player partners and or other approaches for establishing affiliations.

Users belonging to an affiliation may have relationships with some or no functional significance purpose and or impact within a given virtual space. Such relationships within the affiliation may include a leadership structure a role structure and or other relationships within the affiliation. The functional significance of a relationship between users may vary across different virtual spaces. For example a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space may have a different functional significance than a relationship between the first user and the second user in a second affiliation in a second virtual space. By way of non limiting example of the functional significance of an affiliation within an exemplary virtual space affiliates within a virtual space may have certain capabilities among each other that are not available to non affiliates such as sharing and or trading goods services player characters and or items in the virtual space and or other capabilities among users belonging to an affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to determine one or more overarching affiliations. An overarching affiliation may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. By way of non limiting example a given overarching affiliation may encompass an affiliation in one virtual space e.g. a team and an affiliation in another virtual space e.g. a gang where the two affiliations include substantially the same group of users. A given overarching affiliation may facilitate one or more of a cooperative attack a cooperative defense resource trading troupe enforcements and or other actions carried out by a group in individual virtual spaces by individual users belonging to the given overarching affiliation. The group module may be configured to automatically include a given user belonging to a given overarching affiliation in individual affiliations encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. A given user may be enabled to opt in or opt out of being automatically included in individual affiliations encompassed by an overarching affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to link affiliations from different virtual spaces to yield an overarching affiliation. Such linking may be performed automatically manually and or by a combination of automatic and manual operations. In some implementations the overarching group module may monitor affiliations in two or more virtual spaces to determine affiliations including substantially the same group of users for inclusion in an overarching affiliation. A user belonging to affiliations in different virtual spaces may manually link the affiliations so as to be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. In some implementations responsive to a first user joining a first affiliation in a first virtual space the first user may be presented with an option to join one or more other affiliations in other virtual spaces that are encompassed by the same overarching affiliation as the first affiliation. Such an option may be presented even if the first user has not engaged one or more of the other virtual spaces according to some implementations.

The virtual environment contact module may be configured to manage relationships within one or more electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. By way of non limiting example the relationships may comprise a first relationship within a first electronic social network between the first user and a third user. A given relationship within a given electronic social network or other virtual environment may represent a reciprocal relation between two or more users in the given electronic social network or other virtual network. In some implementations the virtual environment contact module may be configured to communicate and or otherwise interface with the relationship module of the virtual environment server to identify relationships within one or more electronic social networks and or other virtual environments.

The social graph module may be configured to determine social graphs associated with individual users based on the affiliations within the one or more virtual spaces and the relationships within the one or more electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. Generally speaking a social graph describes social connections between individuals. By way of non limiting illustration a given social graph associated with the first user may represent 1 a connection between the first user and the second user that corresponds to the first affiliation and 2 a connection between the first user and the third user that corresponds to the first relationship. In some implementations the social graph module may be configured to determine social graphs associated with individual users based on the one or more overarching affiliations. In some implementations the social graph module may be configured to provide a social graph interface for presentation to a user.

The connection strength module may be configured to determine connection strengths of connections in social graphs based on factors associated with virtual spaces and factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environment. Exemplary factors are described below. A given connection strength of a given connection representing a relational strength between two users. By way of non limiting example a connection strength between the first user and the second user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space while a connection strength between the first user and the third user may be determined based on factors associated with the first electronic social network. As another example where the first affiliation within the first virtual space further comprises a fourth user and where the relationships further comprise a second relationship within the first electronic social network between the first user and the fourth user a connection strength between the first user and the fourth user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space and factors associated with the first electronic social network.

Examples of factors associated with virtual spaces may include one or more of game mechanics membership to common affiliations time elapsed since joining an affiliation within a virtual space privileges within a virtual space leadership position in an affiliation in a virtual space status within a virtual space performance indicators associated with a virtual space progress indicators associated with a virtual space average communication frequency within a virtual space a virtual goods inventory within a virtual space time spent engaging a virtual space and or other factors associated with virtual spaces. Game mechanics may include rules of a game or gameplay associated with a virtual space. Privileges within a virtual space may include special capabilities within the gameplay of a virtual space special capabilities associated with an affiliation and or overarching affiliation and or other privileges associated with virtual spaces. Performance indicators associated with a virtual space may include an indication of a level of performance of a given user in the virtual space which may be expressed as a score or other metric. Progress indicators associated with a virtual space may include an indication of a level of progress of a given user in gameplay of the virtual space. Average communication frequency within a virtual space may describe oftenness regularity and or abundance of communications a given user is a party to within communication functionalities of the virtual space.

Examples of factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environments may include one or more of nature of a relationship within an electronic social network time elapsed since forming a relationship within an electronic social network privileges within an electronic social network status within an electronic social network average communication frequency within an electronic social network a virtual goods inventory within an electronic social network time spent engaging an electronic social network and or other factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. A nature of a relationship within an electronic social network may describe one or more of a familial relationship e.g. sibling parent etc. a social relationship e.g. friend teammate etc. a romantic relationship e.g. boy girl friend spouse etc. a professional relationship e.g. colleague associate and or other interpersonal relationships. Privileges within an electronic social network may include special capabilities within and or associated with the electronic social network. Average communication frequency within an electronic social network may describe oftenness regularity and or abundance of communications a given user is a party to within communication functionalities of the electronic social network.

The social graph hierarchy module may be configured to determine hierarchies associated with social graphs based on factors associated with virtual spaces and factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. For example a hierarchy associated with a social graph of the first user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space and factors associated with the first electronic social network. According to some implementations a given hierarchy associated with a given social graph may represent a hierarchical order among connections of a given user.

These and other features and characteristics of the present technology as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

In some implementations system may include one or more of at least one virtual environment server at least one virtual space server and or other components. The virtual environment server and or virtual space server may be configured to communicate with one or more client computing platforms according to a client server architecture to provide the virtual environment and or the virtual space to users via client computing platforms . The virtual space server may be configured to interface with virtual environment server to supplement the functionality provided to the users with respect to the virtual environment and or the virtual space. For example virtual space server may interface with virtual environment server via one or more application programming interfaces.

The virtual environment server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a user module an environment module an interaction module a relationship module and or other modules.

The user module may be configured to access and or manage one or more user profiles and or user information associated with users of system . The one or more user profiles and or user information may include information stored by virtual environment server virtual space server one or more of the client computing platforms and or other storage locations. The user profiles may include for example information identifying users e.g. a username or handle a number an identifier and or other identifying information within the virtual environment security login information e.g. a login code or password virtual environment account information subscription information virtual currency account information e.g. related to currency held in credit for a user relationship information e.g. information related to relationships between users in the virtual environment virtual environment usage information demographic information associated with users interaction history among users in the virtual environment information stated by users purchase information of users browsing history of users a client computing platform identification associated with a user a phone number associated with a user and or other information related to users.

The environment module may be configured to provide one or more virtual environments to users via client computing platforms . As used herein a virtual environment may include one or more interactive electronic social media and or other virtual environments. Interactive electronic social media may include one or more of an electronic social network a micro blogging service a blog service or host a messaging service a message board a forum and or other electronically distributed media that are scalable and enable interaction between the users. Some non limiting specific examples of interactive electronic social media may include the social network provided by Facebook the social network provided by MySpace the social network provided by Google the social network provided by Qzone the social network provided by Foursquare the micro blogging service provided by Twitter the virtual world provided by SecondLife the massively multi player online game provided by World of Warcraft the file sharing service provided by Flickr Blogger YouTube PlayStation Home Xbox Live and or other interactive electronic social media.

The interaction module may be configured to monitor interactions of the users with the virtual environment and or each other within the virtual environment. This may include monitoring for a given user one or more of times at which the given user is logged in to the virtual environment areas of the virtual environment the given user views or interacts with or in other users the given user interacts with the nature and or content of interactions of the given user with other users activities participated in within the virtual environment level powers or skill attained in the virtual environment inventory items obtained in the virtual environment and or other interactions of the given user with the virtual environment and or other users. Some or all of the information generated by interaction module in monitoring the interactions of the users may be stored to the user profiles managed by user module .

At a given time interaction module may determine a set of users that are currently engaged with the virtual environment and or a set of users that are currently not engaged with the virtual environment. Being engaged with the virtual environment may refer to being logged in to the virtual environment performing some action or interaction within the virtual environment within some period of time e.g. the last 2 minutes and or other taking some other action indicating ongoing and contemporaneous engagement with the virtual environment.

The relationship module may be configured to establish relationships between users within the virtual environment. Such relationships may include one or more of friendships connections followers social links and or other relationships. The relationship module may establish relationships based on relationship requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of a relationship may be initiated by a single communication e.g. a request initiated by a given user requesting a relationship between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of a relationship may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. Relationships may include one or more types of relationships that have a functional purpose or impact within the virtual environment and or one or more types of relationships that a social construct within the virtual environment that does not have a functional result.

The virtual space server may be configured to execute one or more computer program modules. The computer program modules may include one or more of a space module a space account module a group module an overarching group module a virtual environment contact module a social graph module a connection strength module a social graph hierarchy module and or other modules.

The space module may be configured to provide one or more virtual spaces to users via client computing platforms . As used herein a virtual space may include one or more social network games and or other virtual spaces. A virtual space may be provided via a virtual environment provided by environment module of virtual environment server . For example a user may be required to be engaged in a virtual environment in order to engage in a virtual space. According to various implementations one or more instances of a single given virtual space may be provided via one or more different virtual environments.

The space module may determine views of the virtual space. The views may then be communicated e.g. via streaming via object position data and or other information from virtual space server to client computing platforms for presentation to users. The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a user character being controlled by a user via the given client computing platform . The view determined and transmitted to a given client computing platform may correspond to a location in the virtual space e.g. the location from which the view is taken the location the view depicts and or other locations a zoom ratio a dimensionality of objects a point of view and or view parameters. One or more of the view parameters may be selectable by the user.

An instance of a virtual space may comprise a simulated space that is accessible by users via clients e.g. client computing platforms that present the views of the virtual space to a user. The simulated space may have a topography express ongoing real time interaction by one or more users and or include one or more objects positioned within the topography that are capable of locomotion within the topography. In some instances the topography may be a 2 dimensional topography. In other instances the topography may be a 3 dimensional topography. The topography may include dimensions of the space and or surface features of a surface or objects that are native to the space. In some instances the topography may describe a surface e.g. a ground surface that runs through at least a substantial portion of the space. In some instances the topography may describe a volume with one or more bodies positioned therein e.g. a simulation of gravity deprived space with one or more celestial bodies positioned therein . The instance executed by the computer modules may be synchronous asynchronous and or semi synchronous.

The above description of the manner in which views of virtual spaces are determined by space module is not intended to be limiting. The space module may be configured to express the virtual space in a more limited or more rich manner. For example views determined for the virtual space may be selected from a limited set of graphics depicting an event in a given place within the virtual space. The views may include additional content e.g. text audio pre stored video content and or other content that describes particulars of the current state of the place beyond the relatively generic graphics. For example a view may include a generic battle graphic with a textual description of the opponents to be confronted. Other expressions of individual places within the virtual space are contemplated.

Within the instance s of a virtual space executed by space module users may control characters objects simulated physical phenomena e.g. wind rain earthquakes and or other phenomena and or other elements within the virtual space to interact with the virtual space and or each other. The user characters may include avatars. As used herein the term user character may refer to an object or group of objects present in the virtual space that represents an individual user. The user character may be controlled by the user with which it is associated. The user controlled element s may move through and interact with the virtual space e.g. non user characters in the virtual space other objects in the virtual space . The user controlled elements controlled by and or associated with a given user may be created and or customized by the given user. The user may have an inventory of virtual goods and or currency that the user can use e.g. by manipulation of a user character or other user controlled element and or other items within the virtual space.

The users may participate in the instance of the virtual space by controlling one or more of the available user controlled elements in the virtual space. Control may be exercised through control inputs and or commands input by the users through client computing platforms . The users may interact with each other through communications exchanged within the virtual space. Such communications may include one or more of textual chat instant messages private messages voice communications and or other communications. Communications may be received and entered by the users via their respective client computing platforms . Communications may be routed to and from the appropriate users through virtual space server and or virtual environment server . Within the virtual space users may participate in a game. The game may be an activity within the space e.g. a virtual card or board game within the space or the game may actually be the space e.g. an online role playing game massively multiplayer online game a social online game and or other games .

The space account module may be configured to manage accounts associated with the individual users for individual virtual spaces. The accounts may include user information associated with the individual users. Such user information may include one or more of identification information inventory information financial information relationship information information related to the users determined by one or more of the other modules and or demographic information usage information past purchase history and or other information related to the users. The identification information may include one or more of a username an avatar name a real world identification and or other identification information. The inventory information may identify virtual objects virtual currency and or other assets available to the users. The virtual objects and or virtual currency available to a given user may include the virtual objects and or the virtual currency that is under the control of the given user within the virtual space. The financial information may include payment information such as an account identification that identifies an account that can be used by the user to purchase virtual goods and or virtual currency for use within the virtual space. The funds available in the account may include real world money or funds virtual money or funds that are not usable within the virtual space and or other funds.

The group module may be configured to a group module configured to establish and or manage affiliations within individual virtual spaces. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users. For example a first affiliation within a first virtual space may include a first user a second user and or a discrete set of other users. Examples of an affiliation may include an alliance a guild a faction a club an association a group a crew a band a clan a family fellowship a gang a league a partnership a syndicate a society a tribe a troop a company and or other affiliations that include a discrete group of individuals.

The group module may establish affiliations based on affiliation requests and acceptances received from users. Establishment of an affiliation may be initiated by a single communication e.g. a request initiated by a given user requesting an affiliation between the given user and one or more other users. Establishment of an affiliation may require a first communication from the given user to be approved by the one or more other users. According to some implementations group module may establish affiliations intrinsically within the virtual space e.g. faction mates are formed based on avatar configuration through recognized user behavior over time e.g. raid members or player versus player partners and or other approaches for establishing affiliations.

Users belonging to an affiliation may have relationships with some or no functional significance purpose and or impact within a given virtual space. Such relationships within the affiliation may include a leadership structure a role structure and or other relationships within the affiliation. The functional significance of a relationship between users may vary across different virtual spaces. For example a relationship between the first user and the second user in the first affiliation within the first virtual space may have a different functional significance than a relationship between the first user and the second user in a second affiliation in a second virtual space. By way of non limiting example of the functional significance of an affiliation within an exemplary virtual space affiliates within a virtual space may have certain capabilities among each other that are not available to non affiliates such as sharing and or trading goods services player characters and or items in the virtual space and or other capabilities among users belonging to an affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to determine and or manage one or more overarching affiliations. An overarching affiliation may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. By way of non limiting example a given overarching affiliation may encompass an affiliation in one virtual space e.g. a team and an affiliation in another virtual space e.g. a gang where the two affiliations include substantially the same group of users. A given overarching affiliation may facilitate one or more of a cooperative attack a cooperative defense resource trading troupe enforcements and or other actions carried out by a group in individual virtual spaces by individual users belonging to the given overarching affiliation. The group module may be configured to automatically include a given user belonging to a given overarching affiliation in individual affiliations encompassed by the given overarching affiliation. A given user may be enabled to opt in or opt out of being automatically included in individual affiliations encompassed by an overarching affiliation.

The overarching group module may be configured to link affiliations from different virtual spaces to yield an overarching affiliation. Such linking may be performed automatically manually and or by a combination of automatic and manual operations. In some implementations overarching group module may monitor affiliations in two or more virtual spaces to determine affiliations including substantially the same group of users for inclusion in an overarching affiliation. A user belonging to affiliations in different virtual spaces may manually link the affiliations so as to be encompassed by an overarching affiliation. In some implementations responsive to a first user joining a first affiliation in a first virtual space the first user may be presented with an option to join one or more other affiliations in other virtual spaces that are encompassed by the same overarching affiliation as the first affiliation. Such an option may be presented even if the first user has not engaged one or more of the other virtual spaces according to some implementations.

The virtual environment contact module may be configured to manage relationships within one or more electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. By way of non limiting example the relationships may comprise a first relationship within a first electronic social network between the first user and a third user. A given relationship within a given electronic social network or other virtual environment may represent a reciprocal relation between two or more users in the given electronic social network or other virtual network. In some implementations virtual environment contact module may be configured to communicate and or otherwise interface with relationship module of virtual environment server to identify relationships within one or more electronic social networks and or other virtual environments.

The social graph module may be configured to determine social graphs associated with individual users based on the affiliations within the one or more virtual spaces and the relationships within the one or more electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. Generally speaking a social graph describes social connections between individuals. By way of non limiting illustration a given social graph associated with the first user may represent 1 a connection between the first user and the second user that corresponds to the first affiliation and 2 a connection between the first user and the third user that corresponds to the first relationship. In some implementations social graph module may be configured to determine social graphs associated with individual users based on the one or more overarching affiliations. In some implementations social graph module may be configured to provide a social graph interface for presentation to a user. Exemplary implementations of a social graph interface are described in connection with .

The connection strength module may be configured to determine connection strengths of connections in social graphs based on factors associated with virtual spaces and factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environment. Exemplary factors are described below. A given connection strength of a given connection representing a relational strength between two users. By way of non limiting example a connection strength between the first user and the second user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space while a connection strength between the first user and the third user may be determined based on factors associated with the first electronic social network. As another example where the first affiliation within the first virtual space further comprises a fourth user and where the relationships further comprise a second relationship within the first electronic social network between the first user and the fourth user a connection strength between the first user and the fourth user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space and factors associated with the first electronic social network.

Examples of factors associated with virtual spaces may include one or more of game mechanics membership to common affiliations time elapsed since joining an affiliation within a virtual space privileges within a virtual space leadership position in an affiliation in a virtual space status within a virtual space performance indicators associated with a virtual space progress indicators associated with a virtual space average communication frequency within a virtual space a virtual goods inventory within a virtual space time spent engaging a virtual space and or other factors associated with virtual spaces. Game mechanics may include rules of a game or gameplay associated with a virtual space. Privileges within a virtual space may include special capabilities within the gameplay of a virtual space special capabilities associated with an affiliation and or overarching affiliation and or other privileges associated with virtual spaces. Performance indicators associated with a virtual space may include an indication of a level of performance of a given user in the virtual space which may be expressed as a score or other metric. Progress indicators associated with a virtual space may include an indication of a level of progress of a given user in gameplay of the virtual space. Average communication frequency within a virtual space may describe oftenness regularity and or abundance of communications a given user is a party to within communication functionalities of the virtual space.

Examples of factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environments may include one or more of nature of a relationship within an electronic social network time elapsed since forming a relationship within an electronic social network privileges within an electronic social network status within an electronic social network average communication frequency within an electronic social network a virtual goods inventory within an electronic social network time spent engaging an electronic social network and or other factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. A nature of a relationship within an electronic social network may describe one or more of a familial relationship e.g. sibling parent etc. a social relationship e.g. friend teammate etc. a romantic relationship e.g. boy girl friend spouse etc. a professional relationship e.g. colleague associate and or other interpersonal relationships. Privileges within an electronic social network may include special capabilities within and or associated with the electronic social network. Average communication frequency within an electronic social network may describe oftenness regularity and or abundance of communications a given user is a party to within communication functionalities of the electronic social network.

The social graph hierarchy module may be configured to determine hierarchies associated with social graphs based on factors associated with virtual spaces and factors associated with electronic social networks and or other virtual environments. For example a hierarchy associated with a social graph of the first user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space and factors associated with the first electronic social network. According to some implementations a given hierarchy associated with a given social graph may represent a hierarchical order among connections of a given user.

In some implementations virtual environment server virtual space server client computing platforms one or more external resources and or other components of system may be operatively linked via one or more electronic communication links. For example such electronic communication links may be established at least in part via a network such as the Internet and or other networks. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting and that the scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which virtual environment server virtual space server client computing platforms external resources and or other components of system may be operatively linked via some other communication media.

The virtual environment server may comprise electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. The virtual environment server may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. The processors may be configured to execute computer program modules. The processors may be configured to execute the computer program modules via one or more of hardware software and or firmware. The computer program modules may include user module environment module interaction module relationship module and or other computer program modules. Although system may be described in certain sections herein as including virtual environment server this is not intended to be limiting. The virtual environment server may be separate and distinct from system and may be provided by an entity that is separate from for example the entity providing virtual space server . In some implementations the functionality attributed herein to virtual environment server may be provided by virtual space server .

A given client computing platform may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program modules. The computer program modules may be configured to enable an expert or user associated with the given client computing platform to interface with virtual environment server virtual space server and or other components of system and or provide other functionality attributed herein to client computing platforms . By way of non limiting example the given client computing platform may include one or more of a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a NetBook a Smartphone a gaming console and or other computing platforms.

The external resources may include sources of information hosts and or providers of virtual environments and or virtual spaces outside of system external entities participating with system and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system .

The virtual space server may include electronic storage one or more processors and or other components. The virtual space server may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of virtual space server in is not intended to be limiting. The virtual space server may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to virtual space server . For example virtual space server may be implemented by a cloud of computing platforms operating together as virtual space server .

Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with virtual space server and or removable storage that is removably connectable to virtual space server via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processor information received from virtual environment server information received from client computing platforms and or other information that enables virtual space server to function as described herein.

Processor s is configured to provide information processing capabilities in virtual space server . As such processor may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processor is shown in as a single entity this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor may include a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor may be configured to execute space module space account module group module overarching group module virtual environment contact module social graph module connection strength module social graph hierarchy module and or other computer program modules. Processor may be configured to execute modules and or other modules by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .

It should be appreciated that although modules and are illustrated in as being co located within a single processing unit in implementations in which processor includes multiple processing units one or more of modules and or may be located remotely from the other modules. The description of the functionality provided by the different modules and or described below is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of modules and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of modules and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of modules and or . As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of modules and or .

The connection description field may be configured to present information associated with one or more individual connections in a social graph of a user. As depicted in connection description field may include one or more of a connection identity field a common connections field a connection strength indicator field a hierarchy indicator field a virtual space factors field a virtual environment factors field and or other elements. The connection identity field may be configured to present identifying information associated with a connection such as a name image and or other identifying information. The common connections field may be configured to identify users to which two given users are both connected. The connection strength indicator field may be configured to present connection strengths as determined by connection strength module . The hierarchy indicator field may be configured to present hierarchy information as determined by social graph hierarchy module . The virtual space factors field may be configured to present one or more factors associated with a virtual space as described in connection with . The virtual environment factors field may be configured to present one or more factors associated with an electronic social network and or other virtual environment as described in connection with .

The connection tabulation field may be configured to present condensed information associated with one or more individual connections in a social graph of a user. By way of non limiting example connection tabulation field may present a list of names of connections in a social graph of a user. As another example connection tabulation field may present an array of facial images and or profile images of connections in a social graph of a user.

The connection search field may be configured to enable a given user to search connections associated with the given user. Such a search may be performed according to information associated with one or more users one or more virtual spaces one or more virtual environments and or other information. In some implementations information associated with one or more search results may be presented by connection description field .

In some implementations method may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of method in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of method .

At an operation affiliations within one or more virtual spaces may be managed. A given affiliation within a given virtual space may include a discrete group of users with a relationship having a functional significance within the given virtual space. The affiliations may include a first affiliation within a first virtual space between a group of users including a first user and a second user. Operation may be performed by a group module that is the same or similar to group module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation one or more overarching affiliations may be managed. Individual ones of the overarching affiliations may encompass two or more affiliations from different virtual spaces that include substantially the same group of users. Operation may be performed by an overarching group module that is the same or similar to overarching group module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation relationships within one or more electronic social networks may be managed. A given relationship within a given electronic social network may represent a reciprocal relation between two or more users in the given electronic social network. The relationships may comprise a first relationship within a first electronic social network between the first user and a third user. Operation may be performed by a virtual environment contact module that is the same or similar to virtual environment contact module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation social graphs associated with individual users may be determined based on the affiliations within the one or more virtual spaces and the relationships within the one or more electronic social networks. A given social graph associated with the first user may represent 1 a connection between the first user and the second user that corresponds to the first affiliation and 2 a connection between the first user and the third user that corresponds to the first relationship. Operation may be performed by a social graph module that is the same or similar to social graph module in accordance with one or more implementation.

At an operation connection strengths of connections in social graphs may be determined based on factors associated with virtual spaces and factors associated with electronic social networks. A given connection strength of a given connection may represent a relational strength between two users. A connection strength between the first user and second user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space while a connection strength between the first user and the third user may be determined based on factors associated with the first electronic social network. Operation may be performed by a connection strength module that is the same or similar to connection strength module in accordance with one or more implementations.

At an operation hierarchies associated with social graphs may be determined based on factors associated with virtual spaces and factors associated with electronic social networks. A given hierarchy associated with a given social graph may represent a hierarchical order among connections of a given user. A hierarchy associated with a social graph of the first user may be determined based on factors associated with the first virtual space and factors associated with the first electronic social network. Operation may be performed by a social graph hierarchy module that is the same or similar to social graph hierarchy module in accordance with one or more implementations.

Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

