---

title: System and method for registering financial accounts
abstract: A session to enroll customers to make payments has two stages, a first stage completed on the telephone or on a merchant or debt collector website, and a second stage completed via a communications link such as a telephone or Internet link. The customer enrollment record is linked to financial account information received from the customer in the second stage and stored on a second, secure server. A token linked to the securely stored financial account information is returned to the merchant and then used by the merchant to initiate payments on that financial account. The merchant's personnel and customer record system do not store or have access to the underlying financial account information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09576279&OS=09576279&RS=09576279
owner: AUTOSCRIBE CORPORATION
number: 09576279
owner_city: Gaithersburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121116
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 655 482 filed Jun. 5 2012 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REGISTERING FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 698 574 filed Sep. 8 2012 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REGISTERING FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates broadly to systems and methods for obtaining and using account information to process financial payments.

Fraud in credit card and other financial transactions is a major problem and considerable resources are devoted to securing credit card and other account information provided to merchants by payers. A single breach of security incident can compromise millions of credit card accounts and such breaches are reported on a regular basis.

The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS is an information security standard for organizations that handle cardholder information for the major debit credit prepaid e purse ATM and POS cards.

Defined by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council the standard was created to increase controls around cardholder data to reduce credit card fraud. Annual PCI compliance audits by an external Qualified Security Assessor QSA are required for organizations handling large volumes of transactions. The security and organizational measures required to comply with the PCI standards and the cost of the annual audits are borne by the individual organization. Underlying software applications may require substantial modifications to achieve compliance and significant changes in organizational structure and operating procedures may also be required. Thus the time effort and cost required for merchants and processors to obtain PCI certification to receive and use credit card data are substantial.

In one approach to managing these costs credit card processing organizations have used tokenization to provide a link to credit card data for purposes of storage and retrieval. Tokenization is the process of replacing some piece of sensitive data with a value that is not considered sensitive outside the environment where it is stored and used. The token is a symbolic representation of a financial instrument or instruction that is only meaningful to participants in the processing cycle and safeguards the permissible use of and access to the financial instrument to authorized users. In the payments industry tokenization has become a popular means of bolstering the security of electronic transactions while minimizing the complexity of compliance with industry standards and best practices.

In the PCI context tokens are used to reference cardholder data that is stored in a separate database application or off site secure facility that is PCI compliant to the appropriate level. Therefore the token which is non sensitive data can be stored and used in a wide range of systems in the organization without bringing those systems within the scope of a higher level PCI audit and more stringent compliance requirements.

However there are limits in functionality of existing tokenization methods. There is a need for improvement in conventional approaches to obtaining and using account information to process financial payments.

It is to be understood that both the following summary and the detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed. Neither the summary nor the description that follows is intended to define or limit the scope of the invention to the particular features mentioned in the summary or in the description.

In an example embodiment an authenticated customer payer enrollment session is established and a last stage of the enrollment session is completed via a communications link such as a telephone or Internet link. The enrollment session is initiated for example by a merchant or collector who has obtained at least an initial identification of the customer also sometimes referred to as the payer . In an embodiment an initial portion of the enrollment session is completed on the merchant s server or a third party server providing services to the merchant with data entered by a customer service agent who receives information over a telephone by a customer over a network such as the Internet or using an initial data file received from another source such as a file listing customer identification information for debt collection purposes. A second portion of the enrollment session is then completed on a secure server that may be different from the merchant s server. In a preferred embodiment financial account information used to make one or more payments is submitted to the secure server while other less sensitive data elements such as the customer s name and address are submitted to the merchant s regular server. For convenience the server that stores the sensitive financial account information will be referred to herein as the secure server but this naming convention should not be interpreted to suggest that the merchant s regular server cannot have security features or be highly secure in its own right. In some embodiments the merchant s server and secure server may operate in the same location or may be the same hardware using a separated volume or partition or memory section. However in other embodiments particular advantages are realized through logical and or physical separation of the merchant s server and the secure server.

The secure server in a preferred embodiment stores the financial account information received from the customer either in the secure server or in a separate secure storage location and provides a token to the merchant s server. Financial account information may include for example credit card numbers and security codes bank routing and account numbers or other financial account identifiers. While certain advantages can be realized by storing financial account information on the secure server storage of data on the secure server is not limited to such information the secure server may receive and store information other than financial account information to the extent the merchant wishes to store such additional information on the secure server rather than on the merchant s server. The token is an index to the stored financial account information for that customer and is stored by the merchant or a server or service controlled by the merchant or merchant s agent in connection with the customer record then used by the merchant to identify the customer account to be debited to process a payment authorized by the customer.

To process a payment from the customer the merchant submits the token corresponding to the customer account to be debited and information specifying the amount of the payment to the secure server. The operator of the secure server then processes the payment using the financial account pointed to by the token and makes the proceeds available to the merchant. In this way the merchant retains control of the customer s enrollment information and the ability to process payments whenever authorized using financial account information provided by the customer but does not hold the underlying financial account information or have security responsibility for that information.

The present invention will be described in terms of one or more examples with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention will also be explained in terms of exemplary embodiments. This specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of this invention. The disclosure herein will provide examples of embodiments including examples of data analysis from which those skilled in the art will appreciate various novel approaches and features developed by the inventors. These various novel approaches and features as they may appear herein may be used individually or in combination with each other as desired.

In particular the embodiment s described and references in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment s described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment persons skilled in the art may implement such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software cloud computing or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM hardware memory in handheld computers PDAs mobile telephones and other portable devices magnetic disk storage media optical storage media thumb drives and other flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other forms of propagated signals e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals analog signals etc. Internet cloud storage and others. Further firmware software routines instructions may be described herein as performing certain actions. However it should be appreciated that such descriptions are merely for convenience and that such actions in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing the firmware software routines instructions etc.

Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a RAID array and or a removable storage drive representing an optical disk drive solid state memory USB port for a thumb drive PC card slot SD card slot for a flash memory communications conduit to a cloud storage server or service or other storage device. Secondary memory may also include information storage in another location but accessible through a network interface such as storage on a separate computing system or a cloud. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit for example may be a magnetic drive optical disk thumb drive flash memory device etc. As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software and or data.

In alternative implementations secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such means may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet interface a communications port a wireless network communications device such as an IEEE 802.11x wireless Ethernet device 3G or 4G cellular data connection a PC slot and card cloud or network storage etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path . Communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link an RF link and other present or future available communications channels.

The terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used herein to generally refer to all available types of digital media for example removable storage drive a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and signals . These computer program products are means for providing software to computer system .

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed by the processor enable the computer system to implement the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to implement the processes of the present invention. Where the invention is implemented using software the software may be provided as a computer program product on media or transmitted digitally via one of the network connections available to computer system and loaded into computer system for example on raid array removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface . The conventional general purpose computer systems described herein are customized to form a special purpose inventive device by the installation of novel software that implements and enables novel methods. This software and the methods employed will now be described in more detail. The scope of the present invention is not limited to the specific examples provided here but those skilled in the art will gain an understanding of the full scope of the invention through illustrations provided in a series of example embodiments.

Referring to in one example embodiment an inventive system and method make functions available to merchants and to third party service providers to merchants in an Application Programming Interface API . A hosted system on a secure server provides Financial Account Registration functions and Token Retrieval functions that can be accessed by merchants and others operating websites for example using merchant server to process payment transactions. Using the methods disclosed herein in preferred embodiments merchants are able to process such transactions without transmitting processing or storing Financial Account data. This reduces the potential liability of the merchants for data loss and avoids placing their customer tracking and payment processing systems such as merchant server within the scope of the present Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS thus reducing compliance costs development costs and accelerating time to market.

The server that stores the sensitive financial account information will be referred to herein as the secure server but this naming convention should not be interpreted to suggest that merchant server cannot also have security features or otherwise be highly secure in its own right. Further while server is described in these examples as a merchant server for convenience the systems and processes disclosed herein are not limited to merchants but are applicable to any operation that needs to process payments. Thus merchant server may serve merchants debt collectors non profit organizations political campaigns service providers of any type processors serving merchants or sub merchants and in general any individual or organization of any type that wishes to process payments from one or more individuals. Further merchant server may be operated by a third party service provider to one or more merchants or other entities that wish to process payments using the methods disclosed herein.

Merchant server and secure server are connected by a communications network such as the Internet and can also be accessed by computer systems at one or more customer locations represented as and . A telephone interactive voice response interface may be connected to secure server and to the telephone network allowing customer location to provide information to the secure server via telephone by speech recognition or tone entry. Similarly a variety of other known communications networks represented by the example of SMS data network may be connected to secure server to provide a link to customer equipment for receipt of payment information. The inventors anticipate that any available communications network whether currently available or newly developed may be used by the customers to provide financial account information in a secure manner to secure server .

The secure server merchant server and computers at customer locations and may be for example general purpose computers such as the computer hardware described with reference to . Merchant server and secure server are provided with custom financial information registration software performing one or more functions described in example embodiments herein. The secure server and merchant server are also provided with Internet web server software allowing interactive exchange of information with customer sites and via the World Wide Web. Computer equipment at customer sites and are preferably provided with standard web browser software to facilitate interaction with secure server and merchant server as described in the example embodiments herein. For simplicity servers and are illustrated in the drawings as single hardware units but those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to any particular hardware configuration thus any desired server configuration can be used to implement the methods disclosed herein including as non limiting examples multiprocessor multiple grouped parallel distributed replicated and mirrored server configurations.

The financial account registration and token retrieval functions provided in the API can be implemented in a first example within the merchant s website hosted on merchant server in a widget or frame using either static or dynamic URL access to secure server the hosted system that maintains the financial data . Secure server returns a token or other account identifier constituting a symbolic representation of the financial account information to merchant server after the financial account information has been registered at secure server . Thereafter merchant server may use the token to process further payment transactions authorized by the end user or customer at sites in their interaction with the merchant. Merchant server may store customer identification information purchase history and other data that does not include financial account information such as credit card information without being subject to PCI compliance requirements.

In an embodiment an authenticated customer enrollment session is established and a last stage of the enrollment session is completed via a communications link such as telephone link or Internet link . The enrollment session is initiated by a merchant or collector who has obtained at least an initial identification of the customer. In an embodiment an initial portion of the enrollment session is completed on the merchant s server with data entry by a customer service agent who receives information over a telephone by input from the customer over a network such as the Internet or using an initial data file received from another source such as a merchant s customer information file.

A second portion of the enrollment session is then completed on secure server . In a preferred embodiment financial account information used to make one or more payments is submitted to secure server while other data elements such as the customer s name and address are submitted to merchant server . Secure server in a preferred embodiment stores the financial account information received from the customer for example from sites or and provides a token to merchant server . Financial account information may include for example credit card numbers and security codes bank routing and account numbers or other financial account identifiers. While certain advantages can be realized by storing financial account information on secure server storage of data on secure server is not limited to such information secure server may receive and store information other than financial account information to the extent the merchant wishes to store such additional information on secure server rather than on the merchant server . The token is an index to the stored financial account information for that customer and is stored by the merchant in connection with the customer record then used by the merchant to identify the customer account to be debited to process a payment authorized by the customer.

Next in step the first computing system for example the merchant server generates an electronic instruction to a second computing system such as secure server to obtain financial account information from the payer. The desired financial account information is distinguished in this example from identifying information in that financial account information refers to specific data used to process a payment such as a credit card number security code and expiration date used to charge a credit card account or the bank account and routing numbers used to process Automated Clearing House ACH transactions. The second computing system in this example secure server may typically be set up to provide a higher level of security than the merchant server in order to protect the sensitive financial account information that will be stored there as such information could be used to perpetrate a fraud in case of a security breach. The instruction to the secure server to obtain financial account information may also optionally include information specifying one or more available communications links to be used to obtain this financial account information. For example as shown in the World Wide Web computers and mobile devices having access to email text SMS messaging or other data networks and voice or tone responsive telephone connections may all be used to obtain the financial account information.

In step this instruction is transmitted to the second computing system which in this example is the secure server of for action.

In step the second computing system communicates with the payer through any of the communications channels described herein or any other available communications channel. The communications channel to be used may be determined by pre programmed preferences or by the instruction from the merchant server as appropriate to the situation. During this communication the payer is preferably able to provide the sensitive financial account information to the second computing system without this information being visible or audible to personnel employed by the operator of the first computing system.

In step the financial account information is stored in the second computing system and a token is generated for the referring payee e.g. the merchant or operator of the merchant server . The token is a pointer that allows the payee to reference the financial account information of that payer without possessing the actual financial account information.

In step the first computing system receives the token from the second computing system in response to its instruction to obtain financial account information for the payer. The token is stored in the first computing system in association with the electronic enrollment data for the payer. This completes the registration of the payer so as to enable one or more intended payments to the payee using the stored financial account information.

Next in step at any time after registration is complete the payee can process an authorized payment from the payer by electronically generating a payment transaction instruction in the first computing system including a representation of the token and electronically transmitting the payment transaction instruction to a computing system other than the first computing system having access to said financial account information. For example the instruction may be transmitted to the second computing system e.g. the secure server . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that computing processes may be divided between computers in a network in any desired manner and that any number of computers may be used to perform a set of processing steps as is known in the art. Therefore in this example the inventors have described the process in terms of a relatively simple exchange of data and instructions between two servers but anticipate that in practice these functions may be performed in some cases by a single computing system and in other cases by a plurality of computing devices with the tasks divided between the computers in any desired manner. The second computer system or another computer system that receives the instructions and token and can access the financial account information based on the token processes the payment as requested without the first computing system having any direct access to the payer s financial account information represented by the token.

In an example embodiment to process a payment from the customer merchant server submits the token corresponding to the customer account to be debited and information specifying the amount of the payment to the secure server . The operator of the secure server then processes the payment using the financial account pointed to by the token and makes the proceeds available to the merchant. In this way the merchant retains control of the customer s enrollment information and the ability to process payments whenever authorized using financial account information provided by the customer but does not hold the underlying financial account information or have security responsibility for that information.

In an embodiment the enrollment session described with reference to the flow chart of is established under the control of merchant server and may optionally have a defined period of persistence during which the second portion of the enrollment submission of financial account information to the second computing system is completed through secure server . The session may be set to expire after a specified time if the second portion of the enrollment e.g. the submission of financial account information to be linked with the enrollment is not completed within that period.

The communications link established between the end user at locations and the secure server to complete the enrollment process may be either synchronous with the data link used to enter information into the merchant s server or may be asynchronous. As non limiting examples of communications channels that can be used for storing information on the secure server telephone link Internet link and other available links such as SMS link may be used to obtain the information.

Telephone. The customer may be transferred to or invited to call or may receive an automated call after having provided his her telephone number from an interactive voice response IVR system associated with the secure server operating through telephone interface . In this manner the customer may key in or speak the account number preferably without any merchant representatives present on the call although a three way call can also be implemented if desired and thus store this information in secure server .

Internet. Merchant server may provide the customer at site or with a widget or redirected URL that provides an online window for direct preferably secure communication with the secure server for entry of financial account information. If desired the widget or window may be designed to appear as part of the merchant s data entry screen transmitted to the customer s browser from merchant server so that the process of registering with data stored on two separate servers is seamless from the viewpoint of the customer. In another embodiment the customer may receive an email via internet connection containing a secure web address link or other instructions for providing the financial account information.

Other. Alternatively the customer may receive a text communication via SMS interface or any other available communications interfaces not shown containing a link to a secure web address or other instructions for entry of the financial account information.

In an embodiment the merchant assigns a unique identification number to the customer and the identification number or an index entry to the identification number is transmitted to the secure server as part of enrollment information that allows linking the data on the secure server to the particular customer enrollment record on the merchant s server.

To establish the second data entry session and link it to the appropriate open enrollment session the customer may be invited to enter a shared secret such as an assigned access key partial or complete social security number account number telephone number password or other data to authenticate the customer for the second session. If the second session is synchronous with the first session for example the two data entry points are provided simultaneously on the same web page or a caller is transferred directly to an IVR system at the conclusion of a debt collection or order taking call the existence of the connection with the customer for the merchant server data entry may provide sufficient authentication for a direct transfer to the second data entry process without further authenticating steps. If the two processes are non synchronous for example the second data entry occurs at some later time or even a later date a further authentication may be appropriate. In an embodiment the connection instructions and authentication shared secret may be provided to the customer by the secure server without the merchant having such information thus providing a further level of security to avoid employees of the merchant accessing the second session or its data.

Embodiments described herein provide significant unobvious advantages. For example the process disclosed eliminates the possibility of security breaches at the merchant location that would expose financial account data due to a keystroke logger camera or other similar data breach. The financial account information is never provided to the merchant s personnel nor does it go through the merchant server or network. This mechanism may also reduce the amount of data entry required of the end user and reduce keyboarding errors.

In an embodiment the token provided to the merchant is a symbolic representation of a financial instrument or account that is only meaningful to the merchant. Knowledge of this token is required for an authorized user to use the financial instrument or account.

The secure server or hosted system preferably meets acknowledged security standards such as PCI compliance to safeguard the financial account information secured there. The secure server processes transactions using this secured information upon receipt of instructions and a token or other customer identifier from the merchant system that identifies the account to be charged.

Transactions processed may include for example credit card ACH and any other type of transaction processed using stored financial account information. In addition other information beyond financial account information can be stored in connection with the customer identifier or token. For example other customer and credit account information may be stored by the host system in connection with the customer record associated with the customer identifier or token. Further the payee may specify what types of cards are accepted as payment mechanisms. A payee can decide to accept or not accept various types of cards such as debit cards prepaid cards and cards from particular issuing banks.

In another example embodiment the merchant or other payee may provide an incentive for the payer to follow through with the process by entering financial account information for storage in the secure server. Information on an incentive for completing the intended payment setup may be transmitted to the secure server along with the instructions for obtaining the financial account information. The secure server then sends a message to the payer through one or more of the available communications channels either initially or in a follow up message if the process is not completed promptly offering the payer the indicated incentive. For example the payer may be offered a discount a gift a coupon or voucher for additional goods or services or any other desired incentive to complete the entry of financial account information and enable an expected payment.

Further the flow charts of incorporate swim lane information indicating where functions may be performed in the example embodiment. Locations shown include the End User system for example systems at location or merchant server sometimes referred to as the Payment Application server a Web Browser also operating at locations or and the secure server sometimes referred to as the Financial Account Registration Application server . Functions are also divided in the example embodiment of among a calling system Integrated System and a secure server or combination of servers comprising the API engine sometimes designated in the flow chart as PayAPI a payment hub associated with the API engine and a Financial Account Warehouse secure storage location . An external credit card network is also connected to the system via a communications channel such as the Internet.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the flow charts provided herein are only one example implementation functions may be reassigned as desired among the functional parts and locations of the system while remaining within the spirit of the invention.

The detailed flow chart starts at with main branch indicating that the URL interface provided may be implemented either with a static URL in step designated as B or a dynamic URL in step designated as A .

Next in step the Financial Account Registration Application in secure server dynamically generates financial account registration request form data and transmits this data to the end user s web browser. In step the browser displays the form for the end user.

The end user in steps and selects the financial account type to be registered either credit card or bank account.

If a credit card is selected the process continues at step where credit card fields are displayed for the end user. Continuing on in step the end user inputs card data. Then in step the browser encrypts the entered card data using SSL protocols. The Financial Account Registration Application confirms the end user s login designated as Subroutine see and performs the card registration process shown in designed as Subroutine .

If a bank account is selected the process continues from step to step where bank account data entry fields are displayed for the end user. Continuing on in step the end user inputs bank account data. Then in step the browser encrypts the entered bank account data using SSL protocols. The Financial Account Registration Application confirms the end user s login designated as Subroutine see and performs the bank account registration process shown in designed as Subroutine .

As shown in regardless of whether a card or bank account was selected for registration after Subroutine or is processed to register the financial account information operation continues at step where the financial account registration application parses and logs the response from the appropriate registration subroutine. Next in step the application sends confirmation codes and a success message to the end user s browser. In an embodiment the confirmation codes are an array of values presented to the end user during enrollment confirmation that serve as a shared secret between the system and the end user. The confirmation codes may be used in conjunction with the external request ID as a key to retrieving a token from the system.

The browser displays a confirmation in step and in step the end user s system requests a reference ID that identifies the just registered card or account. After validating the user s login to the Payment Application merchant server the reference ID also referred to as a financial account token is transmitted to the merchant server using the process in designated as Subroutine . The payment application in the merchant server displays a success message in step and stores the reference ID for future use in step .

In step the end user s browser requests an SSL connection from the indicated static URL pointing to the secure server and in step the financial account registration application establishes the SSL connection. In step the registration application sends account registration request form data in a static form to the browser. Then the browser displays the static form in step . In steps and the end user s system transmits the array of codes provided by the payment application in step in an encrypted form to the financial account registration application. The financial account registration application then sequentially executes Subroutines and . Subroutine implements IP address access and restrictions as shown in . Subroutine verifies identity of the user see and Subroutine obtains the financial account registration entry form see .

Next in step the financial account registration entry form is transmitted to the end user s browser and rendered in step . The end user selects a financial account type in step . If a card is selected the process continues with step and the card registration fields are rendered.

If a credit card is selected the process continues in at step where the end user inputs card data. Then in step the browser encrypts the entered card data using SSL protocols. The Financial Account Registration Application confirms the end user s login designated in the flow chart as Subroutine see and performs the card registration process shown in designated in the flow chart as Subroutine .

If a bank account is selected the process continues in at step where the end user inputs bank account data. Then in step the browser encrypts the entered bank account data using SSL protocols. The Financial Account Registration Application confirms the end user s login designated in the flow chart as Subroutine see and performs the bank account registration process shown in designated in the flow chart as Subroutine .

Regardless of whether a card or bank account was selected for registration after subroutine or is processed to register the financial account information operation continues as shown in at step where the financial account registration application parses and logs the response from the appropriate registration subroutine. Next in step the application sends confirmation codes and a success message to the end user s browser. The browser displays a confirmation in step . In step the array of confirmation codes is provided. In an embodiment the confirmation codes are an array of values presented to the end user during enrollment confirmation that serve as a shared secret between the system and the end user. The confirmation codes may be used in conjunction with the external request ID as a key to retrieving a token from the system. In step the end user s system uses the confirmation codes to request a reference ID that identifies the just registered card or account. After validating the user s login to the Payment Application merchant server the reference ID also referred to as a financial account token is transmitted to merchant server using the process in designated as Subroutine . The payment application in the merchant server displays a success message in step and stores the reference ID for future use in step .

If not authentic an error response is generated in step an error message is displayed in step and the subroutine concludes at step where the user is not permitted to advance i.e. access the system. If the request is deemed authentic in step the request is validated in step through a validation engine operational step . The request is logged and an external request ID is stored in step . The external request ID is an input parameter for session requests. In an embodiment the external request ID serves as a shared secret between the requesting application and the system and is later used as a key to retrieving a token from the system.

In step if the validation step indicated a valid request a login success response occurs at step the session ID is stored at step a success message is transmitted parsed and displayed in step session ID is stored at step and the user is allowed to advance step . If the request is deemed invalid at step processing continues with steps as described previously.

In step the API creates a registration URL and optionally establishes an expiration time for the URL. The expiration time may be 5 minutes 30 minutes several hours or a day or more depending on the nature of the interaction with the payer which will determine the scope of a reasonable time to complete the transaction. In a seamless online transaction the time allowed might be relatively short for example measured in minutes. In a bill collector transaction where the payer has agreed to go online at a later time and enter payment information the time allowed would be longer for example measured in days. In step the URL creation time is logged and the external request ID is stored. In step a success response is generated. In step the calling system receives the success response from the API and logs the response. Then in step the subroutine is concluded and control advances to the next function in the calling program.

If the request is valid in step an authorization request is generated in step and the request is logged in step .

Continuing in the authorization request is processed by the card network in step and a response is generated in step . The API engine receives the response and parses it and records it in step . If the card data was authorized in step an approval response is generated in step the approval response is transmitted to the calling system in step and the subroutine terminates in step . Also in case of authorization the payment hub logs the response and stores the reference ID. The financial account secure server referred to as the warehouse stores the financial account information card information and the external request ID in step .

If the credit card is not authorized in step a decline response is generated in step an error message is displayed for the user in step and the subroutine terminates at step without storing card information.

If the request is not valid in step an error response is generated at step the response is transmitted to the calling system where it is parsed at step and displayed and the subroutine terminates at step without storing any bank account information.

The programmed functions implementing the methods and processes described herein can be provided in a variety of forms. In one preferred embodiment as noted previously the functions provided by secure server may be accessed in the form of an API defining functions available to the merchant server . These functions may be implemented in the manner described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 655 482 filed Jun. 5 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 698 574 filed Sep. 8 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the method of defining the API and the particular API features provided may be varied as desired within the scope of the invention to implement desired concepts described herein and variations on those concepts that will be apparent to those skilled in the art after reviewing this specification.

The screen displays described herein may be designed in any desired manner consistent with achieving the goals of a particular variation and the screen displays may take various forms without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For example the screen displays may have the form disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 655 482 filed Jun. 5 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 698 574 filed Sep. 8 2012 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Although illustrative embodiments have been described herein in detail it should be noted and understood that the descriptions and drawings have been provided for purposes of illustration only and that other variations both in form and detail can be added thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The terms and expressions in this disclosure have been used as terms of description and not terms of limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the claims and their equivalents. The terms and expressions herein should not be interpreted to exclude any equivalents of features shown and described or portions thereof.

