---

title: System and method for magnetic field data compression
abstract: A technique for calculating magnetic field information from a magnetic sensor employs a sensing unit containing the magnetic sensor and another sensor capable of providing a measure of change in orientation. The method includes sampling a magnetic field at points in time and sampling the other sensor at each point in time. The method then entails rotating to a common time instant the magnetic field samples using the orientation of the sensing unit estimated by means of the other sensing modality in order to eliminate variations between magnetic samples due to changes in orientation of the sensor unit within such time interval. The magnetic samples, corrected for the sensor rotation in such interval, are used to calculate magnetic field related information specific to the given time interval and the magnetic field related information is communicated to a receiver at a rate lower than the sample rate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09523576&OS=09523576&RS=09523576
owner: XSENS HOLDING B.V.
number: 09523576
owner_city: Enschede
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20120917
---
The present disclosure relates to a system and method for calculating magnetic field related information from a set of high rate magnetometer samples collected within a given time interval. Such magnetic field information can be transmitted to a receiver application processor at a rate lower than the original sample rate minimizing the data communication requirements when magnetometers are used for example in orientation position tracking or SLAM applications.

A common use of magnetometers is in combination with an inertial based measurement unit IMU . The magnetic field is generally used to improve the position and orientation detection especially with respect to the heading component which would otherwise suffer from unbounded drift resulting from the integration of angular velocity in orientation. The use of an external magnetic field as a reference can serve to limit or eliminate this drift.

Another use of magnetometers is in position tracking or simultaneous localization and mapping SLAM applications. In this type of usage the magnetic field is either used to localize the position and or orientation in space of the magnetometer given the known characteristics of a generated field e.g. from a coil placed in a known position and or to build a map of the environment exploiting the signature of the magnetic disturbance in such environment to identify a current position and orientation.

In applications such as those mentioned above and others the magnetometer generally aims to capture the essence of the local magnetic field. This information is often combined with other information sources in tracking algorithms to compute the position and orientation of the device hosting the magnetometer. These tracking algorithms attempt to model the characteristics of the magnetic field variation the magnetic field in a certain space may depend on the local environment and may fluctuate with time because of moving objects. Moreover magnetic disturbances may be caused by the movement of the device on which the magnetometer is integrated and there may be varying degrees of noise and stability of the magnetic component itself etc. Additionally when the magnetometer is integrated with other circuitry or different electronic components as common in consumer electronics devices for example smart phones tablets etc. some amount of magnetic interference is typically present caused by e.g. inductors currents from the main power supply tracks etc.

Currently in such systems the magnetometer is directly sampled at the desired output data rate ODR . This approach typically provides satisfactory performance when the ODR is in the order of 100 Hz or higher. However in the case of low communication rates between the IMU and the Application Processor AP side of the device to conserve system resources or in the presence of rapidly changing magnetic fields a single magnetic field update may not be sufficient to accurately describe the magnetic field resulting in loss of useful information. On the other hand there are applications for which much lower or non constant ODR are desired or required.

For example in wireless inertial sensor applications the use of the wireless link needs to be minimized. In such cases data rates from a few tens of Hz down to Hz are desired depending on the application and number of overall sensors wirelessly connected. Similarly in first responder applications the data link might be unreliable. Failures in data reception can result in coarser or variable time resolution between measurement updates this is a general problem for wireless inertial sensor applications as well .

In a similar way pedestrian navigation or background activity monitoring benefit from lower ODR to the Application Processor. Here the application might desire data at rates down to a fraction of a Hz to conserve system resources. Another type of application wherein low and variable ODR may be desired are the on demand driven applications. With respect to such applications the magnetometer might send data only after a request from the AP side of the device. The ODR in this case is effectively variable and can be as low as a fraction of a Hz.

In addition to the foregoing a general motivation to the inventors to enable accurate sensor fusion tracking and SLAM applications with minimal update rate is to reduce and relax the overall system requirements. This is of special relevance in general consumer electronics applications since low update rates result in fewer interrupts and lessened contention of communication line and shared bus allowing for much more flexible and scalable system integration and robust performance. Moreover low update rates lead to decreased computational demands since computationally costly fusion algorithms can run at much lower user selectable or application driven rates while the goal is to preserve the same accuracy that could be achieved when processing at high ODRs. This enables a low power motion processing architecture.

For accelerometers and gyroscopes sensors routinely used in IMU systems the problem of low ODR may be solved with the use of well known Strap Down Integration SDI algorithms. In these schemes angular velocity and acceleration are optimally integrated into rotation and velocity increments which can be streamed at lower or variable rate without any loss of accuracy as e.g. disclosed by the authors in the applications U.S. Ser. No. 13 431 570 and U.S. Ser. No. 13 431 584. However no system to optimally compress and pack together relevant information from magnetometers yet exists.

The present disclosure is directed to systems and methods that address one or more of the problems set forth above. However it should be appreciated that the solution of any particular problem is not a limitation on the scope of this disclosure or of the attached claims except to the extent expressly noted. Additionally the inclusion of any problem or solution in this Background section is not an indication that the problem or solution represents known prior art except as otherwise expressly noted.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure a method is provided for calculating values based on magnetic field information from a magnetic sensor in a sensing unit containing the magnetic sensor and at least one other sensing modality capable of providing a direct or derivative measure of change in orientation. The method includes sampling a magnetic field via the magnetic sensor at a plurality of points in time at a sample rate and sampling the at least one other sensing modality capable of providing a direct or derivative measure of change in orientation of the sensor unit at each of the plurality of points in time.

The method then entails rotating to a common time instant one or more of the plurality of magnetic field samples collected within a time interval using the orientation of the sensing unit at each of the plurality of points in time estimated by means of the other sensing modality in order to produce a magnetic samples set that eliminates variations between magnetic samples due to changes in orientation of the sensor unit within such time interval. The magnetic samples corrected for the sensor rotation in such interval are used to calculate magnetic field related information specific to the given time interval and the magnetic field related information is communicated to a receiver at a rate lower than the sample rate.

The magnetic field related information may be represented by one of an average of the magnetic samples in the time interval and an average of a subset of said magnetic samples. Alternatively the magnetic field related information may be represented by a measure of the homogeneity of the magnetic field in the time interval calculated from the variation of the magnetic samples. In an embodiment the magnetic field related information is represented by a subset of said magnetic samples.

When the magnetometer sensor and the other sensing modality are sampled at disjoint and accurately time stamped set of points in time a change in rotation may be estimated from the other sensing modality and used to synchronize the magnetometer samples to the same time points as the other sensing modality.

In another embodiment the other sensing modality is the combination of a gyroscope and an accelerometer device possibly integrated in an inertial measurement unit. The magnetic field related information may be represented by the spatial derivatives of the magnetic field in the time interval evaluated from the magnetic samples in such time interval. In accordance with a further embodiment a change in velocity within the time interval in which the spatial derivatives of the magnetic field are calculated is provided by an accelerometer. An initial orientation and initial velocity at the start of the time interval in which the spatial derivatives of the magnetic field are calculated may be provided by a sensor fusion filter.

Other features and advantages of the disclosed systems and principles will become apparent from reading the following detailed disclosure in conjunction with the included drawing figures.

Preferred embodiments of the present disclosure will be described herein below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description well known functions or constructions are not described in detail to avoid obscuring the present disclosure in unnecessary detail. A brief overview of the system of interest will be given before presenting a detailed discussion of the various system components and functions.

In an embodiment of the disclosed principles instead of simply sending the last known sample from the 3D magnetometer to the AP starting from the original high rate samples collected within the entire time interval since the last data was sent to the AP a low rate output sample is computed that gives all the relevant magnetic field information about such time interval. In this way magnetometer information marginalization is enabled.

Thus in particular a 3D magnetometer is sampled at high frequency at the sensor side. Using the angular velocity from e.g. a 3D gyroscope or other means e.g. vision odometry lidar radar multitude of accelerometers etc. different magnetometer samples collected within a time interval at different times and referenced to different sensor frames can be rotated to a common time instant. The average magnetic field over the interval can be computed and sent to the AP. This allows a reduction in the magnetometer noise magnetic interference from other circuitry and may improve the effective sample resolution. The homogeneity of the magnetic field in each time interval can be evaluated and a quantitative measure of it can be provided. Further a subset samples selection scheme may be implemented to eliminate outliers and short term temporal or spatial disturbances and aliasing.

The samples mand qwithin the entire time interval since the last data was sent to the AP are processed by the Magnetic Field Data Compression block running on the same Processor unit. This block calculates the magnetic field information of interest as concisely described in the previous paragraph and detailed more in the following ones. Such information is transmitted at low or variable ODR to the AP through the Data Communication Link requiring only a fraction of the transmission resources compared to the original set of magnetometer samples in the considered time interval. The reader can appreciate the relevance of the invention noting that depending on the specific values of f ODR and on the desired magnetic field information the data compression gain factor can typically range from a few units up to several hundreds.

The Data Communication Link might for example be represented by a dedicated or shared data bus in case the invention is used in e.g. a smart phone or tablet or by a wireless communication link in case the invention is used in e.g. a wireless sensor without intending to limit the scope of application of the invention to these examples only. The Processor unit is typically an ASIC in order to achieve the highest power efficiency although other solutions e.g. dedicated MCU are possible. The reader should appreciate that the described Sensing Unit block in practice can either contain an integrated gyroscope and magnetometer possibly in combination with an accelerometer or may utilize a combination of distinct hardware components. For example the disclosed embodiment might be implemented in currently available 6DOF packages integrating 3D accelerometers and 3D gyroscopes typically called inertial combo sensors to process magnetometer data from an external magnetic sensor directly connected to the Processor unit e.g. thorough I2C or SPI lines . In this latter case the disclosed invention can provide means for synchronizing in time the streams of data from magnetometers and gyroscopes as discussed in more detail in next paragraphs. For this reason it becomes evident to the reader that the Sensing Unit block as described in only represents the minimal functional requirements for implementation of an embodiment of the disclosed invention without intending to limit the scope of the invention to this architecture.

In another embodiment of the invention the 3D magnetometer is used in combination with a 3D gyroscope and a 3D accelerometer in the Sensing Unit and with a tracking filter running at the AP side. The partial derivatives of the magnetic field in space can be precisely evaluated on a stand alone or on demand basis at the Sensing Unit side from the set of high rate samples collected within the entire time interval since the last data was sent to the AP together with knowledge of initial orientation and initial velocity of the Sensing Unit in said interval typically provided by the AP. Such partial derivatives or a subset of them depending on the specific application requirements can be transmitted to the AP at the same low ODR.

Other beneficial results that may be achieved include improved robustness in magnetometer based gesture pattern recognition by providing means to correct for unwanted displacement caused by relative movements between a tracked object and tracker device.

Having discussed various embodiments in overview a more detailed discussion of these and other embodiments will be undertaken. In order to provide a measure of the average magnetic field in an interval a set of high rate magnetometer samples cannot simply be averaged together. Instead it is necessary in this case to account and compensate for the relative change in rotation between those samples. For the sake of example consider a magnetometer rotating on the x y plane at 1000 deg s this is common in high dynamic human applications like gaming and sampled at 100 Hz. The difference in heading between only two contiguous samples would be 10 degrees resulting in dramatic errors in practical situations.

In an embodiment the angular velocity as measured from a 3D gyroscope is used in order to rotate different magnetometer samples within a time interval to a common time instant. However other sensing modalities may be used instead to provide a direct or derivative reading of angular velocity or change in orientation e.g. vision image processing odometry a multiplicity of accelerometers radar lidar etc. to mention a few .

In this way the magnetic field sample at time t T can be expressed in the same sensor frame as corresponding to time t by correcting it for the change in rotation occurring within the time interval t t T i.e. 

The magnetometer noise reduction using the above described method can be significant. The theoretical analysis of the improvements in noise performance is complex however an example of achievable results is shown in for 100 Hz magnetometer and gyroscope input rate and a typical Earth magnetic field of 0.5 Gauss. In particular the data chart of shows a noise reduction gain factor Gachieved with the proposed solution vs. the number of averaged samples N and for different values of the magnetometer to gyroscope noise merit figure k further defined in the following. The noise reduction gain factor G as used herein refers to the ratio between the standard deviation of the mean of the rotated magnetometer samples and that of the original magnetometer input samples i.e. 

To plot the results we introduce the magnetometer to gyroscope noise merit figure defined as the ratio between the noise densities of magnetometer nand gyroscope n 

From the figure it will be appreciated that the solution described herein is able to provide remarkable improvements e.g. by approximately a factor 10 for typical values of k when compressing the magnetometer samples down to 1 Hz ODR. This is also indication that in practical situations the contribution of noise from gyroscopes can be safely ignored down to such ODR. Also note that in the limit case in which the noise of the gyroscopes can be neglected the curve for Gwould exhibit the canonical 0.5 slope typical of averaging uncorrelated noise also for high values of N.

In a similar way the described solution is able to provide comparable improvements with respect to magnetic interference caused by other electronic circuitry in close proximity to the magnetometer. This can be of relevance particularly for consumer electronics devices e.g. tablets smart phones etc. given the dense integration in miniature mobile devices of a diversity of systems and components including GSM UMTS LTE GPS Bluetooth WiFi Near Field Communication NFC wireless battery charging circuitry battery and power management circuitry sensors etc. For the sake of example without limiting the relevance of application to this scenario consider the case of inductors which are used in consumer electronics circuitry to improve the overall system power efficiency. This is usually crucial in such applications given the demand for low power consumption.

However a significant drawback of inductors is that they typically cause magnetic interference at frequencies corresponding to the occurrence of the major system processing loads. Most of these frequencies are relatively low ranging from a few Hz to a few hundred Hz. For example GPS can cause magnetic interference at certain frequencies as well as corresponding harmonics due to irregular system power loading. Since these frequencies are similar to the bandwidth of motion which needs to be tracked such interference cannot be simply filtered out with traditional analog or digital filtering techniques since it is not possible to distinguish it from the actual motion of interest. For this purpose the proposed magnetometer inter sample rotation compensation and averaging disclosed in previous paragraphs is able to provide an effective solution to cancel or strongly mitigate such interference without affecting the sensing of unit motion which needs to be tracked.

Regarding magnetometer resolution gain an additional advantage of the described solution is represented by the possibility of providing higher quantization resolution on the averaged sample than that simply given by the sensing device itself. This is especially relevant for consumer electronics applications which usually employ a digital magnetometer with integrated ADC with typically between 8 and 13 bits of resolution. For example 8 bits for the AKM AK8973 12 bits for the HONEYWELL HMC5883L or the AICHI STEEL AMI304 13 bits for the AKM AK8975 etc. Such resolutions may be insufficient depending on the user application.

Assuming magnetometer input noise sufficiently larger than the quantization resolution as occurs in practice for good ADC design the averaged sample as in eq. 4 provides a resolution gain in bits of log Thus for example N 16 already provides 4 more bits of resolution given the typical magnetometer ADC specifications previously summarized this might be highly desired in practical applications. Therefore the described solution might also be used as a magnetometer oversampling technique to increase its final resolution.

With respect to magnetic field homogeneity the presence of a magnetic disturbance in the environment can be detrimental for tracking applications if not properly handled. Therefore the possibility of early detection of unwanted fields is of interest.

The described solution allows a device to give an accurate indicator of the potential presence of unwanted magnetic disturbance within each single magnetometer ODR sample. In fact from the set of N rotated magnetometer samples

This expression can be evaluated from the high rate samples and packed together with the low rate output sample. At the receiving AP side this value can be compared with the expected standard deviation which results from eq. 3 as 

If the magnetic field standard deviation in the ODR sample differs significantly from the expected one the presence of magnetic disturbance is inferred using such single ODR sample only. Moreover the solution here described works well within a sensor fusion framework since the magnetic field homogeneity indicator as in eq. 6 is a quantitative measure of the sample standard deviation which can be directly used by the fusion algorithm at the AP side. Therefore no threshold or hard decision needs to be made at the sensor side the empirical standard deviation is directly used as a measure of the magnetometer field homogeneity.

By way of example contains a pair of data plots showing the magnetic field homogeneity indicator calculated as in eq. 6 for a dynamic trial containing a magnetic disturbance in its mid portion as shown in the magnetic field norm plot note that the expected value of the norm would be one 1.0 in case of no disturbance . The ODR is chosen equal to 1 Hz. It can be seen that in case of no disturbance the expected standard deviation dashed line matches very well the empirical one. It is also evident that the proposed solution is able to clearly detect the presence of a magnetic disturbance.

Depending on the specific application a different strategy rather than the mean evaluation as in 4 can be implemented. In fact in the case of e.g. high movement dynamics fast changing magnetic fields or very low ODR the presence of magnetic disturbance or aliasing within only a short portion of the output interval might be possible. The use of a simple mean would be affected by such disturbance resulting in a less reliable measure. This would be properly detected by means of the homogeneity indicator previously described however it would prevent the AP side from fully relying on such a magnetometer sample for a relatively long period the inverse of the ODR .

On the other hand since the high rate magnetometer samples after inter sample rotation compensation are all expressed in a common sensor frame a suitable strategy can be implemented to select only a portion i.e. a subset of such samples preventing outliers from degrading the accuracy of the mean estimate.

There are numerous possible subset sample selection schemes. These include but are certainly not limited to for example selection of samples within a given interval of variation. Such an interval can be calculated from e.g. estimated sample variance expected variance norm of magnetic field etc. Alternatively subset selection may be made via iterative removal or interpolation samples techniques using e.g. similar methods as above maximum difference among contiguous high rate samples first order derivative approximation curve fit and residuals evaluation in combination with statistical testing. Possible testing strategy include Kolmogorov Smirnov distribution test kurtosis test skewness test etc. to mention a few. As another example subset selection may proceed by use of a median filter or a combination of a mean and median filter together.

A problem of practical relevance is related to time synchronization of different sensors. This issue is especially important in consumer electronics devices. In fact in this case it is common to have different streams of sensor data each sampled independently of the others such data samples are then accurately time stamped using e.g. a time reference provided by a common low level driver. However the exact timing between samples may not match i.e. the data samples are not synchronized. To understand how crucial proper time synchronization is recall again that only 0.01 seconds between samples can easily cause differences of about 10 degrees in orientation for typical high dynamic human movements.

However we can use the magnetometer inter sample rotation compensation method disclosed herein for timing synchronization of data belonging to different sensors. Also in this case we consider the practical example of synchronization between magnetometers and gyroscopes however this should not be seen as a limitation of the invention which on the contrary can be used for synchronization between a diversity of sensors including e.g. a camera image processing odometry a multiplicity of accelerometers etc. to mention a few.

It should be noted that the proposed scheme relies on an assumption of piecewise constant angular velocity between t and t for example since the angular velocity measured by the gyroscope at time t is used to rotate the magnetometer sample at time t. Depending of the movement dynamics and value of t t this assumption might introduce some residual errors. In an embodiment we integrate the previously disclosed strategy with an interpolation scheme to remove such errors.

We define K such that tt KT with Tsmall enough to provide accurate piecewise constant angular velocity approximation e.g. for human applications Tbetween a few hundred Hz and a few kHz is enough for industrial applications Tshould possibly be in excess of a few kHz . The angular velocity from the gyroscope at time t kT for 0 k

Such rotation increment can be used to accurately synchronize the magnetometer sample to the gyroscope sample using the same expression as in eq. 7 . Also note that in this scheme the magnetometer sample at time tis rotated to the start of the gyroscope frame t with t

In many applications knowledge of the magnetic field partial derivatives in space is of relevance. Possible uses of them include gradient calculation in magnetic tracking or magnetic based SLAM applications divergence or curl evaluation as a measure of consistency in similar applications human motion tracking systems by means of magnetometers or by means of magnetometers in combination with accelerometers and or gyroscopes input for ad hoc spatial magnetic field prediction model in tracking applications metric for the spatial and or temporal magnetic field variation in the interval and to provide higher immunity against spatial aliasing.

Solutions proposed in the literature measure the spatial derivatives by means of gradiometers the interested reader can find an example in e.g. the following reference T. Nara IEEE Transaction on Magnetics vol. 42 no. 10 pp. 3291 3293 October 2006 . A gradiometer typically comprises a set of magnetometers with low noise characteristics spaced from each other at suitable distance to have a simultaneous measure of the magnetic field at different points in this way a derivative measure of the magnetic field in space is provided. This approach however has the drawback of requiring a dedicated sensor with relatively large size. Especially for general purpose applications or consumer electronics systems this solution is often not viable. At the same time it lacks flexibility and poses some fundamental limits on achievable accuracy for fast changing magnetic fields in space e.g. in near proximity to a dipole source due to the finite and fixed baseline distance.

An alternative possibility according to an embodiment is to evaluate the partial derivatives from a set of samples in time using a single 3D magnetometer this is the case addressed here. If there is enough spatial variation in such set of samples a proper estimate of the magnetic field derivatives in space can be obtained. To this purpose it should be noted that the partial derivatives do not usually need to be known at high rate at the application side. However high data rates are usually necessary to accurately calculate them this is especially true in case of high dynamics or fast changing magnetic fields. Therefore even when partial derivatives need to be evaluated only at a Hz rate sample rates ranging from several tens to few hundred Hz are typically necessary with this approach.

In this section we describe an application of the magnetic field inter sample rotation compensation to spatial derivatives calculation and packaging. Specifically we describe a method for calculating magnetic field spatial derivatives at IMU Mag side from a set of high rate magnetometer samples collected in dynamic conditions by means of the inter sample rotation compensation method previously disclosed. With respect to a further embodiment the partial derivatives are streamed to the AP side on stand alone or on demand basis at low ODR.

For the sake of example we consider the case in which the invention is used in combination with an IMU without intending to limit the scope of application to this scenario only. Consider the matrix of partial derivatives of the magnetic field in space at time t in Cartesian coordinates for convenience 

Therefore the initial rotation between external frame and sensor frame at time tneeds to be known in order to evaluate eq. 10 this point will be further addressed in the following .

At this point the time derivative can be evaluated with any well known numerical approximation method applied on such set of samples

The first system operation here described is stand alone mode. In this case the AP sends back to the IMU Mag orientation and initial velocity at regular intervals and the IMU Mag packs the partial derivatives in the ODR sample only when it observes enough spatial variation in a suitable sub interval of an output frame duration i.e. To make the change of magnetic field in space observable . Note that when this is not the case the AP would be able to calculate itself the derivatives from the low ODR samples or based on other knowledge e.g. that the sensor is standing still etc. . It is worthwhile to mention that since inertial dead reckoning is very accurate within short time intervals the AP feedback rate can be about one Hz or lower.

In the on demand mode the IMU Mag packs the spatial derivatives together with other information in the output sample only when driven by an AP request. In this case the AP sends together with the request also the initial velocity and orientation in the external frame. Note that depending on the specific implementation details the IMU Mag may implement a buffer in order to store a previous samples history which might be used to calculate with no latency the derivatives. For the sake of example a typical use scenario for the on demand mode might be a SLAM application in this case the AP will request for additional data e.g. when it recognizes a new unknown point in the map.

It should be noted that not all the entries in the derivatives matrix in eq. 8 are independent. In fact the magnetic field needs to obey to the well known Maxwell equations for divergence and curl which in the differential form results respectively in for static or quasi static fields 0 Where the last value equals zero due to magnetometer physical placement constraints no local currents I . Such equations result in the following relationships 

Therefore only 5 entries of the derivatives matrix need to be streamed in order to have full knowledge of it. At the same time some applications might be interested in only a few terms e.g. only the diagonal ones . Therefore depending on the specific application the IMU Mag might either stream the full set of derivatives as a redundant measure the minimum required set or a portion of it. In this way only a very limited amount of additional data would need to be streamed ad hoc fitting the specific application demands.

An application of the invention here described is to enable robust gesture and pattern recognition by means of magnetic field tracking. In such applications a permanent magnet worn by the user e.g. in the form of a ring is tracked by a 3D magnetometer as e.g. often integrated in smart phones . However in this scenario it is fundamental to compensate for possible relative displacement between magnetometer and tracked magnet other than that caused by the gesture which needs to be identified. Note that such displacement can occur at relatively high frequency about 10 20 Hz .

In most use cases compensation for only rotational changes might be enough this is rather similar to the well known case of optical image stabilization . This can simply be achieved by means of the magnetometer inter sample rotation compensation solution described in eq. 3 . In this way a set of high rate samples in a common sensor frame i.e. corrected for the displacement introduced by the moving magnetometer can be either streamed at such high rate or properly averaged filtered or decimated for further processing at the AP side where the pattern recognition can be correctly performed on samples referred to a consistent frame.

In the event that compensation for linear displacements is required as well knowledge of initial orientation and possibly velocity is required. This case reduces to a formulation similar to that addressed in the previous section and is omitted for conciseness.

It will be appreciated that the present disclosure provides a system and method for minimizing the data requirement to transmit external magnetic field information in a Sensing Unit AP pair and other contexts. While only certain embodiments have been set forth alternatives and modifications will be apparent from the above description to those of skill in the art. These and other alternatives are considered equivalents and within the spirit and scope of this disclosure and the appended claims.

