---

title: System and method for bulk web domain generation and management
abstract: A system and method for enabling networked computer users to bulk create and manage multiple web domains is disclosed. A particular embodiment includes collecting, by use of a processor, a set of domain names for bulk content development, at least one domain name of the set of domain names being derived from a user-provided keyword; filtering the set of domain names based on network search matching; automatically submitting at least one domain name of the set of domain names for purchase by a domain purchase agent; applying a template to pages of a plurality of sites, each site corresponding to a domain name of the set of domain names; and inserting a plurality of content items into the pages of the plurality of site, at least one of the plurality of content items being an original content item retrieved from an original content portal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152614&OS=09152614&RS=09152614
owner: LOCAL CORPORATION
number: 09152614
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121113
---
This non provisional patent application relates to computer networking and management of networked sites according to one embodiment and more specifically to enabling networked computer users to bulk create and manage multiple web domains.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The content available to networked computer users has increased significantly in recent years. This content is typically provided and accessed via websites on the Internet. A website is a location on a data network such as the World Wide Web available via the Internet an intranet or extranet which is accessible remotely and contains information which is viewable through a networked user s personal computer. The web pages provided on a website may contain text graphics images sound video etc. and are generally written in a standard page or hypertext document description language known as the Hypertext Markup Language HTML . The HTML format allows a web page developer to specify the location and presentation of the graphic textual sound etc. on the screen displayed to the user accessing the web page. In addition the HTML format allows a web page to contain links such as hypertext links to other web pages or servers on the Internet. Simply by selecting a link a user can be transferred to the new web page which may be located in a very different geographical or topological location from the original web page. Web pages are typically individually created for particular purposes and access to a particular web page may be limited to selected parties.

Web sites can be intricate and may require thousands of hours to develop and maintain. Businesses and individuals can incur significant costs in this process and may dedicate a substantial number of people towards a website s development and maintenance. Often large companies have subsidiaries or offices that require their own web sites. It is beneficial for these organizations to maintain a similar appearance of subsidiary websites to the parent or primary web site. However the subsidiaries may need to exhibit different behaviors. Independently creating each of these sites often means expensive development costs for the parent or primary company. Furthermore creating sites independently is complicated and error prone if a subsidiary site is in a foreign language or involves different user options.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

Domain names are commonly used as simple identification labels to indicate ownership or control of a network resource. Typically these resources are data network resources such as websites on the Internet. Individual Internet host computers can use domain names as host identifiers or hostnames. Hostnames are typically the leaf labels in the conventional domain name system. Hostnames can appear as a component in Uniform Resource Locators URLs for Internet resources such as web sites. An important purpose of domain names is to provide easily recognizable and memorizable names to numerically addressed Internet resources. This abstraction allows any resource e.g. a website to be moved to a different physical location in the address topology of the network globally or locally in an intranet. Such a move usually requires changing the Internet Protocol IP address of a resource and the corresponding translation of this IP address to and from its domain name. Domain names are often referred to simply as domains and domain name registrants are frequently referred to as domain owners.

In the various embodiments described herein a system and method for enabling networked computer users to bulk create and manage multiple web domains is disclosed. In various embodiments described in more detail below a networked environment is used to enable a web domain service to provide networked computer users with web domain generation and management services. The web domain service of an example embodiment also provides networked content providers with services to create original content for the web domains created and maintained by other users. This networked environment and the web domain service or host of an example embodiment are described in more detail below. Initially a list of the basic functionality provided by a web domain host of an example embodiment is set forth next.

Bulk Domain Generation A particular embodiment provides bulk domain creation and collection based on relevant keywords e.g. user provided and automatically generated keywords or keyword phrases and based on a user configured template.

Bulk Domain Management Creating sites in bulk is great but we also have a way to edit and manage existing sites in mass too.

In various embodiments described in more detail below a networked environment is used to enable a web domain service to provide networked computer users with web domain generation and management services. This networked environment and the web domain service or host of an example embodiment is described next.

Referring now to in an example embodiment a system and method for enabling networked computer users to bulk create and manage multiple web domains is disclosed. In various example embodiments an application or service typically operating on a host site e.g. a website is provided to simplify and facilitate web domain generation and management for a user at a user platform . Content sources provide a plurality of content sources from which content items e.g. documents text links images video audio clips graphics animations executable code widgets etc. for inclusion in a webpage may be obtained. One or more of the content sources can be provided by one or more content publishers or content aggregators operating at various locations in a network ecosystem. Additionally as described in more detail below one or more of the content sources can be content portals through which a particular embodiment can enable 3party authors to prepare and submit original content for inclusion in a webpage of a domain site built using the functionality described herein. In a particular embodiment a list maintained at the host site can be used as a summary or list of all content portals implemented as content sources which are available to domain creators at user platforms . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that content sources can be any of a variety of networked content providers or content aggregators as described in more detail below.

The domain management host site content sources and user platforms may communicate and transfer content and information in the data network ecosystem shown in via a wide area data network e.g. the Internet . Various components of the domain management site can also communicate internally via a conventional intranet or local area network LAN .

Networks and are configured to couple one computing device with another computing device. Networks and may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Network can include the Internet in addition to LAN wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router and or gateway device acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent between computing devices. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T T T and T Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link.

Networks and may further include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection. Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. Networks and may also include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of networks and may change rapidly and arbitrarily.

Networks and may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as one or more of client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example networks and may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 and the like. Networks and may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA EDGE UMTS GPRS GSM UWB WiMax IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence networks and may include virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device network and the like. In one embodiment network may represent a LAN that is configured behind a firewall not shown within a business data center for example.

The content sources may include any of a variety of providers of network transportable digital content some of which may be RSS Really Simple Syndication feeds denoted generally as content or content items. The network transportable digital content can be transported in any of a family of file formats and associated mechanisms usable to enable a host site and a user platform to receive content from a content source over a network . In one embodiment the file format can be XML Extensible Markup Language however the various embodiments are not so limited and other file formats and transport protocols may be used. For example content formats other than HTML XML or formats other than open standard feed formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format such as Portable Document Format PDF audio e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 and the like video e.g. MP4 and the like and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific content sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein. Furthermore although RSS content can be used the various embodiments are not limited to RSS. For example Atom a syndication specification adopted by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF may also be employed. As used throughout this application including the claims RSS refers to RSS Atom and other syndication file formats derived therefrom. Moreover a particular content source may provide more than one content item or content feed.

In a particular embodiment a user platform with one or more client devices enables a user to bulk create and manage multiple web domains and develop the web domains using content from the content sources as facilitated by the host via network . Client devices may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network such as network . Such client devices may include conventional personal computers PCs portable devices or such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices global positioning devices GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. Client devices implemented as personal computers can include multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics desktop or laptop computers network PC s and the like. As such client devices may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed. Moreover the web enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages WAP and or wired application messages and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript EXtensible HTML xHTML Compact HTML CHTML and the like to display and or send digital information.

Client devices may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive control data and or content from another computing device via a network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content video content audio content and the like. Moreover client devices may be further configured to communicate and or receive a message such as through a Short Message Service SMS direct messaging e.g. Twitter email Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC mIRC Jabber Enhanced Messaging Service EMS text messaging Smart Messaging Over the Air OTA messaging or the like between or with another computing device and the like.

Referring still to host site of an example embodiment is shown to include a domain management system which includes a user account management module a bulk domain generation module a bulk domain management module and an analytics module . Each of these modules can be implemented as software components executing within an executable environment of domain management system operating on host site . Host site is also shown to include a domain information database in which domain and user information can be stored as described in more detail below. Each of these components of an example embodiment is described in more detail below in connection with the figures provided herein.

Referring now to a system diagram of the domain management system of an example embodiment is illustrated. As shown user platform is in data communication via network with the processing modules of the domain management system . The domain management system is in data communication with the database in which user data domain data template data domain content and analytics data can be stored and accessed. In general the domain management system can provide domain management services to users at user platforms via network as described in more detail below.

The domain management system may communicate and transfer content and information in the network ecosystem via a wide area data network e.g. the Internet . In this manner the domain management system may communicate and transfer content and information with a user of a user device of user platform . In general the user can interact with the domain management system via a graphical user interface GUI implemented in an example embodiment as a set of webpages described in more detail below.

As shown in the domain management system of an example embodiment provides a user account management module . The user account management module provides the functionality and interfaces for a user to register with the host site and create modify and manage a user account and related user information profiles and data sets. As part of the creation of a user account a user can assign a unique identifier also denoted a user identifier or user ID to the user account and related user information data sets. Alternatively the user account management module can automatically create and assign the user ID to the user account and related user information data sets. In one embodiment the user ID can be a unique fixed length numeric string. In an alternative embodiment the user ID can be an alphanumeric string of arbitrary length which can be used to uniquely identify a particular user account and related user information data sets. The user profile and information data sets can be stored in user database portion .

Once the user ID is created using any of the embodiments described above the user ID can be provided by a user to access and configure user specific information in a user information data set retained on host site in a conventional manner. In a particular embodiment a user profile can be created and maintained in user data . The user profile can be used to establish a user context in which user specific information such as demographics affinity search history transaction history and the like can be maintained. Additionally domain data for particular users can be maintained by user account management module . This domain data can include for example identifiers of domains created and or purchased by a particular user domain keywords used for creating domains user topics of interest and the like. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other user information may similarly be configured and retained in user data by the user account management module . Thus for various embodiments a user can register with the host site and use host site and the user account management module therein to create and maintain a user profile user information data sets user context information and a corresponding unique user ID.

Referring still to the bulk domain generation process performed by the bulk domain generation module of an example embodiment can include identifying and obtaining desired domains and developing unique content for each of the new domains in a bulk processing fashion. illustrates a detail of the processing modules included in the bulk domain generation module of an example embodiment.

Referring to the bulk domain generation module of an example embodiment includes two basic sets of functional components. A set of domain selection modules assist a user in the searching selection and acquisition of a desired set of domain names. A second set of domain development processing modules provide tools with which a user can develop and deploy unique content for each of the new domains acquired by the domain selection modules . As shown in the domain selection processing modules of an example embodiment include a specified domain list generator a term expander module a network search matching module and a domain development list generator . The operation and processing of these domain selection processing modules are shown in more detail in .

Referring now to the operation and processing of the domain selection processing modules are illustrated. In a particular embodiment a user interface is provided to enable a user of user platform to interact with and efficiently configure the operation of the domain selection modules . This user interface can be implemented for example as a series of web pages presented to a user by the domain management system .

A user of the domain management system typically wants to search select and acquire a desired set of domain names. Initially the user may already have acquired purchased one or more domain names s he wishes to include in a set of domain names that can be developed in bulk fashion using the domain development processing modules described below. In this case the user can provide these previously acquired purchased domain names to the previously purchased domains module via user interface as shown in . These previously purchased domain names can be added to a list of purchased domains as collected by the domain development list generator .

Secondly the user may already have identified one or more specific domain names s he wishes to acquire and include in the set of domain names that can be developed in bulk fashion using the domain development processing modules described below. For example the user may know that s he wants to own the domain name www.xyz.com if such domain name is available. In this case the user can provide these specific domain names to the specified domains module via user interface as shown in . The specified domains module can be provided as part of the specified domain list generator as shown in . The specified domain list generator can include a domain expander module which can expand the specific domain name provided by the user to include domain names with related extensions geographic designations technology designations and the like e.g. www.xyz.org www.xyz.edu www.xyz.net www.xyz.jp etc. . The expanded specific domain list can be provided to a selected domain module that collects desired domain names as selected by the user for purchase.

Thirdly the user may have identified one or more keywords keyword phrases search terms topics concepts trademarks or other related words or the like that may correspond to domain names s he wishes to acquire and include in the set of domain names that can be developed in bulk fashion using the domain development processing modules described below. In support of this keyword based domain name selection process of an example embodiment a domain keyword module receives the keywords keyword phrases and the like as entered by the user via user interface . These keywords or keyword phrases can include any alphanumeric string the user believes may form an appropriate and useful association between a particular product service information offering and a corresponding domain name supporting the offering. The various embodiments provide tools for the user to develop these user provided keywords or keyword phrases into corresponding domain names. In one embodiment a term expander can process the user provided keywords or keyword phrases and derive recommended domain names. As part of this processing the term expander can parse the user provided keywords or keyword phrases to isolate particular primitives such as words word portions or strings. These primitives can be further processed by re arranging the primitives into a different order substituting synonyms for particular primitives adding additional strings and or the like. For example a user might enter the keyword phrase house for sale. In response to receiving this sample keyword phrase the term expander can produce the following recommended domain names houseforsale.com house for sale.com house4sale.com homeforsale.com etc. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of different recommended domain names can be produced by the term expander in response to receiving a user provided keyword or keyword phrase. A user interface option is provided whereby the user can selectively activate or deactivate the use of synonyms in the term expansion process. Further the recommended domain names can be produced by the term expander by combining a keyword or keyword phrase with some prepackaged lists such as states cities careers auto terms etc. Additionally the term expander can filter the recommended domain names based on the user context. For example the recommended domain names can be limited to only those domain names associated with the particular user s geographic location selected product service category temporal parameters and the like. The term expander of a particular embodiment may include Radius and Population Domain Creation. In this embodiment a user can select a keyword and postal zip code or other geographic designator and the system can apply a specific radius to the user s query. The system can combine the keyword with every city or town of a pre configured size within that specific zip code radius and determine if the combined domain is available for registration. The system can additionally display each locale s zip code population metro population business entity population and score the domain based on amount of potential Internet users that may search for the keywords within the domain. In summary the term expander can produce a set of recommended domain names that are most likely relevant to a particular user s needs.

As part of the term expansion process or subsequent thereto the set of recommended domain names can be further filtered or ordered based on network search matching. The network search matching module is provided for this purpose. The network search matching module compares the user provided keyword or keyword phrase and or the set of recommended domain names with the search queries submitted to 3party sites and or 3party search engines. The idea is to recommend domain names that correspond to the search terms people are using to search plus only recommending domains that correspond to the search terms people are using to search on a frequent enough basis. This tool helps the user to not buy blindly or to merely rely on estimates of traffic. The network search matching module enables a user to buy domains built from related keyword phrases that the search engines have determined people are using to search. As a result the domain names recommended by the term expander and the network search matching module are likely to be of high value for a particular user. The network search matching module can automatically communicate with commonly known search engines e.g. search engines shown in using well known network interfaces. The network search matching module can submit the keyword phrases entered by the user to the search engine. In response the search engine provides information including a number of searches performed on the search engine using the user entered keyword phrases. The search engine can also provide information including a number of searches performed on the search engine using the expanded keyword phrases. In this manner the network search matching module can determine the keyword phrases that are most commonly entered into the search engine. These most commonly used keywords as determined from actual search engine traffic can represent the best domain name candidates that may be valuable for the user. These recommended domain names can be provided to the selected domains module .

Once the specific domain names and recommended domain names have been collected by the selected domain module the user can have an opportunity to select or reject the collected domain name candidates in the selected domain module via user interface . Additionally the collected domain names can be checked for availability for purchase. After the user has identified a set of selected domain names in the selected domain module s he wishes to purchase these selected domain names can be sent to a domain purchase agent . Using conventional technology the domain purchase agent can use automated processes to submit each of the selected domain names to a 3party domain provider for purchase. Following the processing by the 3party domain provider the domain purchase agent can generate a data structure or report identifying each of the selected domain names along with status information indicating whether or not the purchase of the particular selected domain name was successful. The user can be notified of these results via user interface . Additionally the domain purchase agent can forward the names of the successfully purchased domains to a purchased domains module . The domains successfully purchased by the domain purchase agent can be combined with the domain names previously purchased by the user as provided by module . The purchased domains module can be used to collect these purchased domain names. Once the purchased domain names have been collected by the purchased domains module the user can have an opportunity to select or reject the purchased domain names in the purchased domains module via user interface . At this point the user can select from among the purchased domain names in the purchased domains module for development of content for the selected purchased domain names. After the user has identified a set of selected purchased domain names for which s he wishes to develop content these selected purchased domain names can be collected in a domain development list . Thus the domain names in the domain development list represent the domain names the user has identified via prior purchase specific naming or keyword searching purchased and selected for content development. The domain development list represents the output produced by the domain development list generator and a primary output of the bulk domain selection process of an example embodiment. At this point the selected purchased domain names collected in the domain development list are ready to be developed into one or more families of fully functioning websites each with unique content and consistent formatting and coloration using the bulk domain development processing modules shown in .

Referring again to the bulk domain development processing modules of the bulk domain generation module of an example embodiment are shown. The domain development processing modules provide various tools with which a user can develop and deploy unique content for each of the domains acquired by the domain selection modules . As shown in the domain development processing modules of an example embodiment include a domain template builder a domain template replicator a domain content fetch module and a domain logo generator . The operation and processing of the domain development processing modules are shown in more detail in .

Referring now to the operation and processing of the domain development processing modules are illustrated. In a particular embodiment the user interface is provided to enable a user of user platform to interact with and efficiently configure the operation of the domain development processing modules .

As described above the user can collect a set of selected purchased domain names in the domain development list . The domain names collected therein are ready to be developed into one or more families of fully functioning websites each with unique content and consistent formatting coloration styling and the like. Initially the user can use domain template builder to generate a site template. The template is used as a framework or generic design from which the customized pages for a particular website can be generated. The template can be parameterized to provide various formatting coloration and styling options from which a user can choose a particular page layout data display and entry fields and color or image options. The template can include pre defined site configuration data parameters and user specified site configuration parameters which can be specified by a host administrator and or a user via the user interface . The generated templates can be stored in template data area of database . In this manner the user can employ the domain template builder to generate one or more site templates that can be used later to bulk customize the presentation of sites corresponding to the family of selected purchased domain names.

In an example embodiment templates can be generated as an extension to the active server page technology. The templates which can be referred to as active server templates can be generated as a combination of hypertext language and scripting language. The active server templates are thereby similar to active server pages ASPs . However unlike ASPs the active server templates specify an additional higher order scripting level that specifies a second level of code. During creation of content for a site corresponding to a domain name a page generator can read an active server template file and convert the template to a scripting program having executable lines of code derived from the higher order level of instructions. The page generator then executes the scripting program using pre defined site configuration data and user specified site configuration parameters as input to produce a customized active server page. The resulting active server page contains the hypertext language and the lower order level of instructions in the scripting language that can be deployed on the site corresponding to a particular domain name.

Once a page layout coloration format and styling is specified using the domain template builder the content of the site pages can be specified using the domain content fetch module . The domain content fetch module of an example embodiment can be configured by a user to access system configured or user specified content sources and obtain particular content items therefrom. For example the domain content fetch module can be configured to access a particular document or page at a specified uniform resource locator URL or network address and to retrieve the identified document page or other content item. The retrieved content item can then be inserted into a particular location of a particular page of a site being generated by the domain template replicator . A user specified template can be used by the domain template replicator to determine the proper placement of the content item retrieved by the content fetch module . A plurality of content items can be retrieved from a plurality of content sources and inserted into a plurality of pages and sites being developed by the domain template replicator .

It is beneficial to create domain site content that is likely to rank highly with the most commonly used search engines. Domains with highly ranked content will be more likely included in search results and therefore viewed by a greater number of network users. Often the inclusion of unique meta tags with the long tail nature of these domains is enough to achieve first page ranking Usually original content is required for the search engines to rank a domain long term. However it is difficult to develop a plurality of sites in bulk fashion while providing original content on each of the sites. As described herein a particular embodiment can put original content requests in front of professional writers in a quick and easy way. In this manner original content can be generated and automatically inserted on each site of a plurality of sites in bulk fashion.

Referring again to a particular embodiment provides an original content portal which can be implemented as one of the network accessible content sources . In a particular embodiment the original content portal is operated as a separate website on which professional writers may create accounts and log in. As part of the domain development process the user can specify the types of original content the user wants to insert into a set of domain sites being created by the bulk domain generation module . For example the user can specify particular topics concepts questions research specifications and the like that can provide a professional writer with enough information to write a related body of original content. These user content specifications can be captured by the domain content fetch module and converted to content requests that are sent to the original content portal . The content requests are posted on the original content portal . When professional writers log in to the original content portal the writers can view the open content requests and select one or more of the content requests to which the writer can respond. At this point the writer prepares a body of original content that is both responsive to the content request and conforms to the content parameters established by the original content portal and or host site . The writer can then submit the newly drafted original content to the domain content fetch module . The domain content fetch module can notify the requesting user of the receipt of the original content from the original content portal . The user can accept the received content or return the content back to the writer via the original content portal for further revision editing. Once the user accepts the original content from the original content portal the domain content fetch module can forward the approved original content to the domain template replicator for insertion into an appropriate page of a site being developed by the domain template replicator . As described above a user specified template can be used by the domain template replicator to determine the proper placement of the original content item retrieved by the content fetch module . A similar process can be used to insert original content into a plurality of sites being developed by the domain template replicator in bulk fashion. After the user accepts the original content from the original content portal the writer of the content can be automatically credited or compensated using pre defined criteria as established on the original content portal and or the host site .

In a particular embodiment the original content portal includes quality controls help a user domain owner feel comfortable that the content they buy and include in a domain site webpage is high quality. These quality controls in an example embodiment include the following all content is passed through a plagiarism filter spell grammar check and eventually approved or rejected by the requesting user. Writers log into the original content portal select content requests write corresponding content and submit the content to the requesting user. The requesting user can receive an email or other form of notification that content is ready for review. If there are problems the requesting user can reject the content and send it back to the writer with notes for a revision. If the content is approved the requesting user accepts the content and the content becomes live on the domain site at the corresponding page for which the content was requested.

Referring again to a particular embodiment includes a domain logo generator . The domain logo generator can be used to automatically generate an original logo for a particular domain site based on input provided by a user via user interface . For example the user can provide a logo keyword image icon graphic or the like to the domain logo generator . The domain logo generator can receive the user input customize and format the input to conform to the template parameters for the corresponding site generate an original logo from the customized input and insert the original logo into one or more pages of the corresponding domain site. In this manner various embodiments can create and insert customized logos into domain site pages in bulk fashion.

The domain template replicator of a particular embodiment includes a capability for bulk domain development wherein a single user configured template is replicated across multiple domains. The template can be applied after the user identifies selects and purchases the set of domains to which the template will be applied. As a result of the processing operations described herein a set of domain sites can be created by domain template replicator wherein the content of the domain sites is fully developed with original content and domain logos.

A Simple Bulk Uploader can be applied to the domain set. Additionally an Advanced Bulk Uploader can be applied to the domain set to allow rapid customization thereby enabling all domain sites to be unique.

The bulk domain development process performed by the bulk domain generation module can also include performing any transcoding decompression decryption formatting and or the like that may be necessary to display a particular content item on a webpage of a created domain site. The bulk domain development process performed by the bulk domain generation module can also include the fetching staging and deployment of particular content items on a webpage as users of user platforms configure a particular set of domains with particular content items as described herein. The content or links thereto of the domains developed by the bulk domain generation module can be stored in the domain content area of database . Thus as described herein in reference to various example embodiments the bulk domain generation module can assist a user to identify select acquire and develop a plurality of domain sites in bulk fashion.

Referring again to the bulk domain management process performed by the bulk domain management module of an example embodiment can include modifying domain content and monitoring managing the operation of each of the new domains in a bulk processing fashion. illustrates a detail of the processing modules included in the bulk domain management module of an example embodiment.

Referring to the bulk domain management module of an example embodiment includes two basic sets of functional components. A bulk domain editor can assist a user in modifying the content of previously developed domains. The bulk domain editor of an example embodiment can enable a user to select an item in a particular page and or a particular site that the user wants to change e.g. add delete modify a page add delete modify an image text block or other content item change a color scheme change a zone edit keywords etc. . Then the user can select all the domains to which the edit should apply. Automatically all the specified changes are replicated across the selected domains in bulk fashion.

A set of domain management tools provide various functional components with which a user can monitor and manage the operation of each of the new domains acquired by the domain generation module . A particular embodiment provides several tools for managing and gathering information from a set of domains. For example these tools can include DNS validation site map generation search engine pinging analytics upload and the like. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of domain management tools can be provided as part of the domain management tools of a particular embodiment.

Referring again to an analytics module of an example embodiment can include functional components for capturing and recording data items and system parameters that may be of use to host site administrators and or 3party sites see . The analytics recorded by the analytics module can include a variety of data such as the number of users numbers of domains acquired by users categories of content most used by users anonymized user profiles and demographics site mappings domain click through metrics original content portal traffic and the like. The analytics data can be stored in the analytics data area of database . This analytics data can be of use to host site administrators for optimizing the operation of host site and for correcting error conditions. This analytics data can be of use to 3parties for marketing and or advertising activities. 3parties can access the analytics data in database with approval of host site via network using application programming interfaces APIs provided by the host site .

Referring now to another example embodiment of a networked system in which various embodiments may operate is illustrated. In the embodiment illustrated the host site is shown to include the domain management system . The domain management system is shown to include the functional components as described above. In a particular embodiment the host site may also include a web server having a web interface with which users may interact with the host site via a user interface or web interface. The host site may also include an application programming interface API with which the host site may interact with other network entities on a programmatic or automated data transfer level. The API and web interface may be configured to interact with the domain management system either directly or via an interface . The domain management system may be configured to access a data storage device either directly or via the interface .

Referring now to sample screen snapshots illustrate the operation of an example embodiment. In particular illustrate examples of the bulk domain purchase functionality of an example embodiment. illustrate examples of the global variables functionality of an example embodiment. illustrate examples of the mass domain management functionality of an example embodiment. illustrate examples of the advertising sales portal functionality of an example embodiment.

Referring now to examples of the bulk domain purchase functionality of an example embodiment are illustrated. As shown in a user can insert the name of a desired domain name into a text entry block provided as part of the sample user interface web page shown in . The bulk domain generation module can check the availability of the entered domain names using conventional functionality. Additionally the user can employ several other tools to assist in the generation and development of a set of desired domain names. For example a Popular Term Expander tool is provided as shown in . Upon activation of this tool a web page such as the example shown in is displayed. Using this tool the user can enter a keyword e.g. bankruptcy and one of a variety of category selections such as the category selections shown in . In the example of a category selection Large US cities is selected. As a result a corresponding set of words to append append words are presented as shown in . The append words are words or phrases that relate to the selected category. The user can also choose the particular append words that can be included in the expanded domain names. Once the user selects Create Domain List the bulk domain generation module combines the entered keyword s with each of the append words to create a list of expanded domain names domain list which is presented to the user in a web page such as the example shown in . The user can also enter additional appended keywords select the order in which the terms are concatenated and insert special characters in the expanded domain names. In this manner the user can automatically populate a domain list with candidate domain names that are relevant to the user. Additionally depending on the category selection picked by the user as described above the bulk domain generation module can present additional information related to each of the append words corresponding to the selected category. For example if the selected category is Large US Cities and the corresponding append words are the names of large US cities the bulk domain generation module can present additional information related to each of the named large US cities such as population location economic information related to the city business information related to the city etc. In this way the user can easily view background information on a particular append word prior to selecting the append word as part of the set of automatically generated domain names. As shown in once the user selects from among the candidate domain names presented in the domain list the user can check the availability of these automatically generated domain names using the process described above.

Referring now to examples illustrate the use of the global variables functionality of an example embodiment. Global variables provide a way for users to specify a type of content item in web page content or meta data that is replaced with actual content when a particular website is built. For example shows a sample list of domains that might result from a domain name search query e.g. bankru . This sample set of domain names might have been created using the Popular Term Expander capability of the bulk domain generation module as described above. Each of the domains in the sample list of domains have associated pages of content and meta data. In most cases this content and meta data for each domain can be automatically and uniquely created using the various techniques described herein. For example a content page of the first domain e.g. AbileneBankruptcy.net in the sample list of domains is shown in . Similarly a content page of the second domain e.g. AkronBankruptcy.net in the sample list of domains is shown in . By comparing these two different content pages of two different domains it can be seen that though the pages are similar in structure and content the page content is nevertheless unique to each particular domain. This uniqueness can be achieved using global variables as described herein.

Referring now to a sample screen snapshot of a user interface provided by the bulk domain generation module is illustrated. The sample user interface shown in provides a set of data entry fields wherein a user can configure a set of keywords and geographical information associated with a particular domain of the set of domains. These configured keywords and the domain specific geographical information can be substituted for global variables which are inserted into a global content template. In this way a global content template with global variables can be used to create unique content for each domain of the set of domains.

Referring now to the sample list of domains is again shown with the first domain e.g. AbileneBankruptcy.net in the sample list of domains having been selected by the user. The user may then select a Pages function to view the content pages of the selected domain. As a result of selecting to view the content pages of this sample domain the user is presented with the sample user interface screen as shown in . The user interface screen shown in enables the user to configure the content and meta data of each of the pages of a particular domain. For example the user can configure various parameters of the page style or page settings as shown in . Once the user has configured the pages for a domain as desired the user can apply the changes to multiple domains by selecting the Apply To Multiple Domains button as shown in . As a result of selecting the Apply To Multiple Domains button the user may then perform a domain search or otherwise select the set of domains to which content changes will be applied. An example of the list of selected domains is shown in . Once the user selects the set of domains to which content changes will be applied the user can specify the particular changes to be applied to the selected multiple domains. As shown in the example of the user can insert global variables into content data entry fields provided in the user interface shown in . In the example shown the global variables are identified using a prefixed and suffixed special symbol e.g. . In the example shown in the global variables domain and keywords are shown inserted into the content fields for the content changes to be applied to multiple domains. These global variables among others defined by the user as described above can be inserted into any of the content fields or meta data fields associated with the selected multiple domains. As shown in a variety of content fields or meta data fields in a global content template can be provided for the user to define content or meta data for a variety of pages in each of the selected multiple domains. Once the user selects the Save Changes button shown in the global variables specified by the user and inserted into the global content template are substituted for domain specific content and meta data for each of the selected multiple domains. Then the domain specific content is applied to each of the selected multiple domains. In this manner the unique domain content for multiple domains can be generated in mass using global variables.

Referring now to examples illustrate the use of the mass domain management functionality of an example embodiment. Referring now to a sample list of domains is shown having been selected by the user. The user may then select a Bulk Domain Management function to invoke the mass domain management functionality of an example embodiment. As a result of selecting the mass domain management functionality the user is presented with the sample user interface screen as shown in . The sample user interface screens shown in enable the user perform a domain search or otherwise select the set of domains to which configuration parameters or content changes will be applied by the mass domain management functionality. An example of the list of selected domains is shown in . Once the user selects the set of domains to which domain management changes will be applied the user can select the Manage Selected Domains button as shown in the example of . As a result of selecting the Manage Selected Domains button a user interface screen such as the sample screen shown in is presented to the user. The user interface shown in provides a variety of bulk domain management tools that can be applied in mass to the list of selected domains. For example as shown in the user can select to validate the domain name server submit a sitemap export details or delete each domain in the list of selected domains using the selection options provided in the user interface of . Additionally the user can select a button Edit Domains to invoke the bulk domain editor provided by the bulk domain management component of an example embodiment.

Referring now to the sample list of domains is shown having been selected by the user. Using the bulk domain management tools and or the bulk domain editor the user can modify a variety of domain parameters domain configuration data or domain content or meta data. For example illustrates a sample user interface with which a user can configure one or more categories and or keywords associated with a set of domains. illustrates a sample user interface with which a user can invoke a domain logo generator to configure a unique logo or logo template associated with a set of domains. illustrates a sample user interface with which a user can configure domain images associated with a set of domains. illustrates a sample user interface with which a user can configure a color scheme associated with a set of domains. illustrate an example embodiment wherein the changes specified using the bulk domain management tools and or the bulk domain editor are applied in mass to the set of domains in the list of selected domains.

Referring now to examples illustrate the advertising sales portal functionality of an example embodiment. In this example embodiment a list of domains can be offered to advertisers who can view the listed domains along with costs for advertising on each domain. Such a sample list of domains is shown in . Advertisers can search for a relevant set of domains using a search query categorical browsing and or geographical filtering functionality provided in the sample user interface shown in . Once an advertiser identifies a set of selected domains the advertiser can view a variety of domain advertising information regarding the selected domains as shown in . For example the advertiser can determine ad listing positions for each domain the domain purchase price listing costs and ranking information for each domain. The advertiser can then make purchases using the advertising sales portal and cause ads to be shown on the selected domains.

Referring now to processing flow diagrams illustrate example embodiments of a domain management system as described herein. The method of an example embodiment includes collecting by use of a processor a set of domain names for bulk content development at least one domain name of the set of domain names being derived from a user provided keyword processing block filtering the set of domain names based on network search matching processing block automatically submitting at least one domain name of the set of domain names for purchase by a domain purchase agent processing block applying a template to pages of a plurality of sites each site corresponding to a domain name of the set of domain names processing block and inserting a plurality of content items into the pages of the plurality of sites at least one of the plurality of content items being an original content item retrieved from an original content portal processing block .

As shown in another method of an example embodiment includes receiving information indicative of an original content request from a user the original content request being part of a bulk domain generation process processing block submitting by use of a processor a corresponding original content request to an original content portal processing block receiving a response to the original content request from a writer at the original content portal the response including an original content item processing block notifying the user that the original content item was received from the original content portal processing block and upon approval of the received original content item by the user inserting the received original content item into a page of a site as part of the bulk domain generation process the received original content item being inserted into the page according to a pre defined template processing block .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium can also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium can accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

