---

title: Successive real-time interactive video sessions
abstract: A method for initiating continuous succession of multiple real time interactive video sessions of a predetermined duration between two users among multiple users logged on to a server through a network. The method includes matching of a set of predetermined characteristics of a first user with a set of predetermined characteristics of other users, and identifying an appropriate second user for the first user to interact with. On identifying the second user, a real time interactive session of predetermined duration is initiated between the two users and the user accounts of the two users are debited by a predetermined amount of virtual currency. On identifying a swiping operation on the display screen in a predetermined manner, by any of the first and the second users, the method automatically terminates the current video session, and initiates a next video session for that user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08786662&OS=08786662&RS=08786662
owner: 
number: 08786662
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120811
---
The present invention generally relates to interactive communication methods and systems and more specifically to real time interactive video communication between different users connected to a server through a network.

Conventionally many internet dating websites are available where different users willing to interact with and eventually date persons of genders matching their preferences upload their profiles and determine suitable dating partners. Most conventional internet dating platforms employ a relatively common set of elementary protocols and steps to search for an appropriate dating match for a user and to facilitate the user s interaction with other users. Dating websites in general require a user to create a profile by providing a set of details including age gender appearance hobbies interests etc. It often takes quite some time for a user to create a profile. Also the profile may not actually represent the user s virtues. There are many users who provide false information with the intent of attracting more people. Many users lose interest in particular dating websites after repeatedly encountering fake profiles. For example during uploading their profile pictures on dating platforms some users provide fake pictures.

Further viewing a user s static image during interacting with him her is tedious. Some of the dating websites facilitate uploading a pre recorded video file into a profile but even that measure may not provide a true representation of someone s personality appearance energy etc. During most of the verbal or audio communications between different users on the conventional dating websites it often takes hours for two people to interact and identify each other before they could actually take a decision for a real time interaction.

Another important concern of such dating platforms is the increasing number of sexual predators which who falsify profiles merely to poach sexual partners. Some persons indulge in nudity and initiating sexual verbiage which may be offensive and annoying to the other party. Generally there are no options on many dating websites for a user to prevent or block such users from interacting with him her in future or to ban them from logging on to the website next time or to automatically delete their profiles by annulling their registration.

Considering the aforementioned problems a need exists for a better interactive platform for facilitating interaction and communication between different users a platform which may substantially increase the users interest and trust and the platform s credibility.

The present disclosure provides an extremely congenial and effective dating platform for different users to find their desired matches quickly and fix real dates. Further the dating platform provides an enjoyable and satisfactory dating experience by facilitating real time interactive video sessions between users.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides a method for facilitating a succession of multiple real time interactive video sessions of a predetermined duration between two or more users among a plurality of users. In the method a first user logs on to a server through a network using a first electronic communication device. The server matches a set of predetermined characteristics of the first user with a set of predetermined characteristics of one or more of the other users. The server then performs a search to determine an appropriate second user that the first user can interact with. The searched second user uses a second electronic communication device to log on to the server through the network. Then the first user initiates a real time interactive video session of the predetermined duration with the second user. Once the session is initiated a common time indicator is rendered on the display screens of each of the first and the second electronic communication devices. The common time indicator continuously indicates the time left before the video session terminates. Further a separate virtual currency indicator is rendered on the display screens of each of the first and the second electronic communication devices. The virtual currency indicator on each device shows a current amount of virtual currency remaining in a user account associated with the user of the device. Further on interpreting a predetermined gesture of one of the first user and the second user the method may terminate the current video session between the first user and the second user and initiate a new successive session for the first user the second user or both. Else the method may also extend the duration of the current video session between the first user and the second user beyond the predetermined duration. Further the method deducts a predetermined amount of virtual currency from the user account of the first user or the second user based on whether the predetermined gesture is posed by the first user or the second user respectively. The predetermined gesture is a swiping operation a clicking operation or a tapping operation performed on the display screen of any of the first and the second electronic communication devices.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides an apparatus for facilitating a continuous succession of multiple real time interactive video sessions of a predetermined duration between two or more user among a plurality of users connected to a server through a network. The apparatus includes a first electronic communication device logged on to the server through the network. The first electronic communication device is configured to send a request to the server for initiating a real time interactive video session. The server is configured to identify an appropriate user using a second electronic communication device and logged on to the server through the network for the first user to interact with. On identification of the second user the system facilitates communication of the first and the second electronic communication device through a video session. The two devices have touch sensitive display screens to obtain user inputs and communicate with each other during the real time interactive video session. During the session the display screen on each device renders different user selectable options to transmit inputs received from a user of one of the two devices to a user of the other device. Such user selectable options include an option to terminate the current video session an option to request a prospective meeting session an option to request a next prospective video session or an option to report an inappropriate conduct during the video session. Further a separate virtual currency indicator is rendered on the display screen of each of the first and the second electronic communication devices. The virtual currency indicator on each device represents a current amount of virtual currency remaining in the user account associated the user of that device. Also a common time indicator is rendered on the display screens of the two devices representing the amount of time left before the current video session will terminate automatically. The display screens of each of the first and the second electronic communication devices can also interpret a swiping clicking or tapping operation and in consequence to the operation the apparatus terminates the current video session and initiates a next video session for the user of any of the first and the second electronic communication devices.

The method and the apparatus of the present disclosure for facilitating a real time interactive video session between users is extremely congenial and provides an enhanced user experience during dating by providing real time video images of the users during the video session. Further the method substantially reduces the time consumed in finding an appropriate dating match and does not require the user to waste minutes in creating his her profile.

Additional aspects advantages features and objects of the present disclosure would be made apparent from the drawings and the detailed description of the illustrative embodiments construed in conjunction with the appended claims that follow.

The following detailed description discloses aspects of the claimed invention and the ways it can be implemented. However the description is not intended to define or limit the invention such definition or limitation being solely contained in the claims appended thereto. Although the best mode of carrying out the invention has been disclosed comprehensively those in the art would recognize that other embodiments for carrying out or practicing the invention are also possible.

The present disclosure unveils a highly interactive system and method for facilitating real time interactive video sessions between two or more users among multiple users connected to a server through a network. The method continuously renders real time video images of the users during their interaction and hence enhances the users experiences. Further the method avoids the need for users to create and upload their profiles before they can be eligible for interacting through video sessions. Further during the video sessions obscenity is substantially avoided by providing an option for the users to report any forbidden inappropriate act performed by another user and in such a case the registration of the user indulged in the act can be permanently cancelled thus preventing that user from logging on in future.

At step a first user logs on to a dating server through a network using a first electronic communication device. The dating server is set up by a dating service provider. If the first user is using the dating platform for the first time he she is not required to create his her profile by providing a user name setting a password and providing other personal details. The user may use login details which include user name and password of his her social networking platform to log into the dating server. Possible social networking platforms for this purpose include but is not limited to Facebook LinkedIn Google Ning Twitter MySpace and Orkut as well as other social networking platforms now known or hereafter developed. The dating server employs an Application Programming Interface API provided by the social networking platform to enable the user to login to the dating server using login details of the user account on the social networking platform. Further the API allows the dating server to obtain the predetermined characteristics of the first user from that user s user account on the social networking platform. The predetermined characteristics of the first user include the user s gender preferences and hobbies.

When the first user logs in to the dating service multiple other users are also logged on and are capable of connecting with each other. In an embodiment of the present disclosure many users logged on to the dating server when the first user logs on are using smart communication devices based on mobile operating systems such iOS Android BlackBerry OS and the like. Further these users logged on to the server using an application installed on their smart communication device applications such as an iPhone application iPad application Android application or similar apps. Typically the display screens of the devices used by the first user and the second user respectively are touch screens capable of interpreting a touching swiping or tapping operation performed on the screen.

At a step the method matches a set of predetermined characteristics of the first user with a set of predetermined characteristics of the other users connected to the dating server. In an embodiment the first user sends a request to the dating server to determine an appropriate user for a real time video session. The process to send a request is explained in further detail in conjunction with below. The predetermined characteristics of the first user may include for example gender preferences and hobbies. Such characteristics of the first user may be obtained by the dating server using the API as noted above. The predetermined characteristics of each other user connected to the dating server are stored in a database at the dating server. In an embodiment a community rating is given to each user by the other users. The community rating of the dating service users is gradually updated over time as each user interacts with other users. Further during matching for a suitable user the server takes the community rating of that user into account. The dating server performs a search within its database to determine an appropriate second user for the first user to interact with at a step the second user being logged on to the dating server using a second electronic communication device.

Once the appropriate second user is found the video session for the predetermined duration between the first user and the second user is initiated at a step . In an embodiment the predetermined duration of the video session is about 90 seconds. However the duration may vary and is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. In another embodiment the dating server sends the contact information of the second user to the first electronic communication device which then initiates a real time video session with the second electronic communication device. As the session is initiated a real time video image of the first user is continually rendered on the display screen of the second electronic communication device during the entire session and vice versa. Exchanging actual video images enhances the experience of the two users during their interaction as well as making the session more realistic and lively.

The community rating may be provided during the video session by performing a predetermined gesture on the two electronic communication devices. In an embodiment the predetermined gesture includes using user selectable options rendered on the display screens of the two electronic communication devices. In an exemplary embodiment see below a thumbs up option on the graphical user interface of the devices which when selected clicked tapped leads to sending a certain message for example She thinks you are hot on the other s screen. Similarly if a thumbs down option is rendered the system may provide another message She is not interested . The number of thumbs up and thumbs down messages that a user receives may be used to obtain a community rating for the user. In an embodiment the community rating is provided during the video session using socket based metadata peer to peer transmission system. When the first user selects one of the thumbs up or thumbs down options then that information is embedded in the video signal at the first electronic communication device the second electronic communication device retrieves the embedded information and displays one of She thinks you are hot and She is not interested respectively.

At a step a separate virtual currency indicator is rendered on the display screens of the first and the second electronic communication devices during the video session. Specifically a user account is associated with each of the multiple users connected to the dating server and using the dating service. The user account see below of each user contains a specific amount of virtual currency denoted by fliks which is continuously updated as a user s time on the dating service. The virtual currency indicators rendered on the display screens of the devices of the first and the second user continuously display the amount of virtual currency fliks remaining in their user accounts. The user accounts of the first user and the second user are debited by a predetermined amount of virtual currency when a real time interactive video session is initiated between the two users. In an embodiment each specific dating video session running for the predetermined duration for example 90 seconds costs one flik to a user. At the step when the real time video session is initiated between the first user and the second user the user accounts of the first user and the second user are debited by a predetermined amount of virtual currency and accordingly the virtual currency indicators rendered on the first and the second electronic communication devices show updated information at the step . In another embodiment this amount is levied on the account of the user that initiates the video session with the other. For example in the present case one flik is immediately debited to the account of the first user on initiation of the video session with the second user. However the second user is not charged with any fliks.

Moreover the user account associated with each user is updated and refilled with a specific predetermined amount of virtual currency i.e. fliks periodically. In an exemplary embodiment each user s account is refilled with free fliks of virtual currency every midnight. Again the amount of free recharge periodically may be different in certain embodiments. If a specific user uses all the free fliks during a specific day he she can refill the user account by purchasing the fliks by paying actual currency. In an exemplary embodiment a 1 is required to recharge the account with 25 fliks. The user has an option to pay online through a suitable payment mode including PayPal credit card and debit card. Specifically if the user consumes all the fliks in his her account a message may be rendered on the display screen of his her device for example Sorry you ran out of fliks need to refill . Preferably there is no limitation on the amount of fliks that a user can purchase.

In an embodiment at the same step a common time indicator is also rendered on the display screens of the first and the second electronic communication devices as the first and the second user continue interacting during the video session. The common time indicator continuously indicates the remaining time for the current video session. This keeps the two users updated and allows the users to extend the current video session in time if required.

Continuing the method disclosed in at a step the method continuously monitors to detect and interpret any predetermined gestures or inputs from any of the first user and the second user on the first and the second electronic communication devices respectively. The predetermined gestures include selecting clicking tapping the user selectable options rendered on the display screens of the two electronic communication devices. The predetermined gestures also include swiping gestures on the touch screen of the two electronic communication devices. In an embodiment the first user terminates the current video session by performing a swiping gesture on the first electronic communication device in a predetermined manner such as performing a swiping operation from left to right on the touch screen or swiping from top to bottom or right to left. The method detects this operation at step . As soon as the first user performs this operation the current video session is terminated at step and the method goes back to step . Immediately the dating server starts matching the predetermined characteristics of the first user with the predetermined characteristics of other users in the plurality of users to determine a third user for real time video session with the first user at step . Similar steps are followed for the second user.

If at the step the method does not detect the predetermined gesture to terminate the current video session the method continuously continues checking whether the predetermined duration of the video session has lapsed at step . If the duration has not lapsed then the current video session continues and the method loops back to step . Otherwise if the predetermined duration lapses then at step the method checks whether any input for extending the current session has been received from the first user or the second user. In an embodiment when the predetermined duration is about to finish a message is displayed on the display screens of the two devices asking them to extend the current session. For example a suitable message may be Do you want to continue the current session The users may extend the duration of the current video session by performing a predetermined gesture on their electronic communication device. The predetermined gesture is explained in further detail in conjunction with below. If neither the first nor the second user elects to extend the current video session then the method terminates the current video session at the step . After terminating the session the method returns to step . If an input to extend the current session is received from either the first or the second user then the method extends the current video session by the predetermined time e.g. 90 seconds at step and the method loops back to step . If the session is extended a predetermined amount of virtual currency i.e. 1 flik is deducted from the account of the user requesting to extend the video session and the duration of the session is extended by a predetermined duration i.e. another 90 seconds and the method goes back to step . In that event the other user can enjoy the extended session for no charge. This feature allows for digital chivalry to be displayed by the participants in a video session.

Certain other user selectable options are rendered during the video session. One user selectable option may provide an option to request a date while another option may provide the ability to report inappropriate conduct see below . The first user may request a date with the second user during the video session and if the second user accepts then the first user s account is debited with a predetermined number of fliks. This is explained in further detail in conjunction with and below.

Another essential and powerful user selectable option is the ability to report inappropriate conduct by the other user. Such conduct may be set out in system rules as for example Forbidden Actions which could include indulging in nudity or exposing himself herself inappropriately. This option is known as perv alert . This is explained in further detail in conjunction with below.

Alternatively as shown at the first user may employ the dating option . Immediately the first user receives a confirmation message Request date. Getting in groove Request a date to keep the convo going. Would you like to request a date The first user may confirm the request for date by selecting Yes option or the first user may rejected the request for date by selecting No option .

As shown in if the first user confirms the request for a date the second user receives the message You ve been asked on a date on her display screen . The second user may or may not accept the date. If the second user accepts the date the first user is notified through a message for example It s a date as shown in . Also the current video session is extended by a predetermined duration. Once the second user accepts the date a predetermined number of fliks are deducted from the user account of the first user. In an exemplary embodiment 5 fliks are deducted from the user account of the second user. Further once the date is accepted both the users are added to each other s Datebook . The Datebook feature is explained in further detail in conjunction with and below.

The user of electronic communication device sends a message to the dating server to determine an appropriate second user for a real time video session. The dating server determines user of the electronic communication device for real time video session between the electronic communication device and the electronic communication device .

Here the dating server excludes a set of users when matching the first user with an appropriate second user. Specifically the server excludes users common between the users in a friends list within a user account of the first user on the social networking platform and the plurality of users connected to the dating server . The dating server transmits contact information about the electronic communication device to the electronic communication device thereafter the electronic communication device initiates a real time video session with the second user using the electronic device . Further debiting the user accounts corresponding to the electronic communication device and the electronic communication device by a predetermined amount of virtual currency when a real time interactive video session is initiated between the users. Further the devices interpret swiping operation and in consequence thereto facilitate termination of the current video session and initiation of a new video session.

The users log into the dating server using a smart phone application installed on the electronic communication devices and etc. The smart phone application renders a user interface on the electronic communication devices facilitating the continuous succession of multiple real time interactive video sessions of a predetermined duration between two or more users among a plurality of users. The user interface includes the user selectable options the first and the second virtual currency indicators and the common time indicator on the first and the second electronic communication devices. The user selectable options include an option to request for extending the duration of current video session beyond the predetermined duration an option to request for a date an option to provide rating to the other user and an option to report inappropriate conduct. Further the smart phone application initiates the real time video session between the users. Moreover the smart phone application interprets user gestures on the touch screen and facilitates transmission of corresponding messages from the electronic communication device to one of the dating server and the another electronic communication device . Thereafter the smart phone application installed on the electronic communication device receives the messages and displays corresponding alerts on the display screen of the electronic communication device . The smart phone application installed on the electronic communication device transmits messages to the electronic communication device by embedding the messages in the real time video being transmitted from the electronic communication device to the electronic device the smart phone application installed on the electronic communication device retrieves the embedded messages and displays corresponding alerts on the display screen of the electronic communication device .

Network can be any suitable network to initiate connection of the devices to the dating server including one or more of WiFi Wireless Local Area Network WLAN Wireless 3G Network Internet etc. The dating server is connected to and synchronized with a server pertaining to a social networking platform which may be Facebook LinkedIn Google Ning Twitter MySpace and Orkut . The dating server uses an Application Programming Interface API provided by the social networking platform to connect to and synchronize with a server . For logging on to the server the user of any of the electronic communication devices and etc. must provide his her username and password details corresponding to an existing account of the user with the social networking platform that the server belongs to. The smart phone application uses the API to log the user on to the dating server using the username and password details corresponding to user account on the social networking platform. In an exemplary embodiment the social networking platform is Facebook and the server is the Facebook server. As the users provides his her Facebook login details the user gets connected to the dating server without a need for the user to register and create an account at the dating server . The dating server retrieves all the publicized details or predetermined characteristics of that user using Facebook API and uses those details to match users for real time video sessions between users connected to the dating server .

The database of the dating server stores information pertaining to the different users of the dating platform. For example the database can store a list for example user identifications of all the users previously banned through the perv alert and once a banned user tries to log on the dating server recognizes the user identification and prevents the banned user from accessing the dating platform. Further the database may also store a community rating of different users as explained earlier and the dating server uses these community ratings stored in the database to find appropriate video dating matches for different users when they request a video dating.

The method and the system of the present disclosure for facilitating real time interactive video session between different users connected to a server through a network through specifically described in context of a dating environment however is not limited in the scope of its application and implementation. For example the method and the system may also be used to facilitate a real time video session between two users where one user is an interviewer and the other is an interviewee for instance in context of a job vacancy.

Although the current invention has been described comprehensively in considerable details to cover the possible aspects and embodiments those skilled in the art would recognize that other versions of the invention may also be possible.

