---

title: Method and system for establishing a trusted and decentralized peer-to-peer network
abstract: The present invention offers a new and improved method and system to establish a trusted and decentralized peer-to-peer network for: the sharing of computer files between and among computing devices; trusted chat sessions; and for other applications of trusted peer-to-peer networks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08769273&OS=08769273&RS=08769273
owner: DMT Licensing, LLC
number: 08769273
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120712
---
This is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 806 165 filed Aug. 6 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 245 036 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 710 380 filed Nov. 10 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 903 822 both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention is related to a trusted and decentralized peer to peer network method and system.

Important to the business of selling movies electronically via the Internet includes efficient electronic distribution and or file sharing. The process of sharing computer files including digitized movies via communications means has increased in importance with the proliferation of the Internet for electronic distribution and file transfer. The creation of file sharing and or peer to peer networks e.g. Gnutella has enabled users of computer workstations which lack traditional serving software to distribute computer files. Traditionally serving computers e.g. computers running Microsoft Windows 2000 Server performed the task of distributing computer files to client work stations using a centralized network architecture. The advent of file sharing and or peer to peer networks gave way to a decentralized network architecture comprised of multiple computer workstations e.g. host nodes acting as redundant repositories each capable of transferring the same computer files. Some of the current file sharing and or peer to peer networks communicate in an open and un trusted manner. Additionally trusted peer to peer networks have relied on a centralized process of identifying members and their related IP address to establish the trusted peer to peer network.

The present invention offers a new and improved method and system to establish a trusted and decentralized peer to peer network for the sharing of computer files between and among computing devices trusted chat sessions and for other applications of trusted peer to peer networks. Additionally the present invention also offers a new and improved method and system to provide file identification properties or attributes prior to the actual download of the file through file sharing utilizing a trusted and decentralized peer to peer network. The present invention can be a software program residing computing devices permitting users to automatically interact in a trusted peer to peer manner during the file sharing process.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to similar or identical parts throughout the several views and more specifically to thereof there is shown a system for establishing a trusted and decentralized peer to peer network. The system comprises multiple computing devices e.g. Device A Device B each having a connection to a Communications Means and each possessing the means to utilize communication protocols e.g. FTP Protocol HTTP Protocol Chat Protocol File Sharing Protocols utilize a communications program e.g. the E mail Program transfer or download the computer files. The system comprises multiple computing devices e.g. Device A Device B each having a User Interface through which the user of the respective computing devices interfaces. The system comprises multiple computing devices e.g. Device A Device B each having a Processor that processes computation instructions. The system comprises multiple computing devices e.g. Device A Device B each having a RAM that provides memory for the respective computing devices. The system comprises multiple computing devices e.g. Device A Device B each having a Storage that provides persistent memory or storage for the respective computing devices. The system comprises multiple computing devices e.g. Device A Device B each having a Transceiver that connects the respective computing devices to the Communications Means and through which communications are transferred between the computing devices. The Device A is separate apart and distinct from the Device B .

Preferably the Peer to Peer Network Program is connected to a User Interface of a computing device e.g. the Device A which enables the user of the Device A to input information to the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. the Device A can interact with the Peer to Peer Network Program of another computing device e.g. the Device B .

The present invention pertains to a method to establish a trusted and decentralized peer to peer network. The method comprises the step of initially installing the Peer to Peer Network Program . Then there is preferably the step of creating encryption and decryption keys through means of a CryptoAPI of an Operating System . Then there is preferably the step of creating a searchable ciphertext file containing identifiable network information on each computing device embodied by the present invention which can be shared with each of the other such computing devices. Then there is preferably the step of appending data and or other information to or associating data and or other information with a specific computer file to be included in the file sharing functionality of the trusted and decentralized peer to peer network created by the present invention. Then there is preferably the step of distributing public keys such as but not limited to E mail CD ROM etc. from one computing device to the computing devices of other members that belong to a given trusted network and preparing such public keys for use in the decryption of encrypted files between the members of the trusted peer to peer network. Then there is preferably the step of whereby a member of the trusted peer to peer network can find other members of the trusted peer to peer network through decentralized means. Then there is preferably the step of using the trusted peer to peer network for various communications purposes such as but not limited to trusted chat sessions trusted file sharing etc.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to similar or identical parts throughout the several views and more specifically to through thereof there is shown an apparatus for invoking functionality of the Operating System of computing devices Device A and Device B . The apparatus is connected to the Operating System of computing devices Device A and Device B . The apparatus comprises means for invoking functionality of an Operating System of a computing devices the Device A to coordinate with the apparatus of another computing device the Device B to share decryption keys e.g. UserA Public Key UserB Public Key via electronic or manual means share encrypted FindMe files e.g. UserA FindMe File UserB FindMe File via open and un trusted file sharing networks establish a trusted peer to peer network between computing devices Device A and Device B real time location of members of the trusted peer to peer network communication between and among computing devices comprising the trusted peer to peer network file sharing between and among computing devices comprising the trusted peer to peer network.

In through the following components are already commercially available the Device A the Device B the Device C the Device D the User Interface the Processor the RAM the Storage the Transceiver the Operating System the Communications Means the CryptoAPI the Cryptographic Service Provider the Application Programming Interface the UserA Public Key the UserB Public Key the UserC Public Key the UserD Public Key the UserA Private Key the UserB Private Key the UserC Private Key the UserD Private Key the UserA Public Key BLOB the UserB Public Key BLOB the UserC Public Key BLOB the UserD Public Key BLOB the E mail Program the FTP Protocol the HTTP Protocol the Chat Protocol and the File Sharing Protocols . The Peer to Peer Network Program the Setup.exe File the User Information File the FindMe Folder the Searched FindMe Results Folder the Trusted Search Folder the UserA FindMe File the UserB FindMe File the UserC FindMe File the UserD FindMe File the File Info Stream and the Trusted Member List are new teachings of this invention.

The Device A the Device B the Device C the Device D are means which can perform computational functions such as but not limited to a Web Server PC Mac PalmPC Laptop etc. . The Device A the Device B the Device C the Device D are also means which can electronically communicate with other computing devices. The Device A the Device B the Device C the Device D are also means to transmit computer files e.g. the UserA FindMe File to other computing devices. The Device A the Device B the Device C the Device D are also means to transmit information and or requests to other computing devices. The Device A the Device B the Device C the Device D may contain a video display audio speakers and other computing peripherals. The present invention is not limited to only the Device A the Device B the Device C and the Device D .

The User Interface such as but not limited to web browser software such as the Microsoft Internet Explorer keyboard mouse video monitor speakers is means which the user of a computer device e.g. Device A can interface with the computing device. The User Interface is means which can be used by the user of the computing device to transmit requests to another computing device and can display the contents of the User Interface to the user of the computing device. The User Interface is means which can receive and execute requests transmitted from another computing device. The User Interface is also means which is a client program that can use the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP to make requests of a plurality of devices e.g. Device A throughout the Internet on behalf of the user of any other device of devices e.g. Device C .

The Processor is means of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to electronically process instructions of the Operating System other computer programs running on the Operating System or other computer peripheral devices of the computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D . The Processor is also means of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to electronically process instructions of other peripheral software and or firmware devices of the a computing device.

The RAM is means used by the Operating System of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to temporarily store computer files computer programs or other computer information such as but not limited to the UserA FindMe File for use by the Operating System computer programs running on the Operating System or other computer peripheral devices of the computing devices.

The Storage is means in or connected to a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D which can be used to electronically save an electronic copy of the digital code of a computer program or computer file such as but not limited to the UserA FindMe File from RAM of the a computing device.

The Transceiver such as but not limited to a telephone modem cable modem network interface card etc. is means to electronically send and receive communication signals via a Communications Means . The Transceiver is means used by software and or firmware of or connected to a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D and or the Operating System thereof to electronically communicate via a Communications Means . The Transceiver is connected to a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D and is connected to the Communications Means .

The Operating System such as but not limited to Microsoft Windows 2000 is means to permit computing functionality of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D .

The Communications Means such as but not limited to telephone lines cable TV lines coax cable fiber optics radio cellular satellite serial cables parallel cables infrared communication laser communication universal serial bus USB cables the Internet LAN Ethernet network generally etc. is means by which computing devices connected thereto can electronically communicate. The Communications Means is also means by which computing devices connected thereto can invoke standard communication protocols such as but not limited to hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP etc. to transmit and receive signals and or computer programs or computer files such as but not limited to the UserA FindMe File . The Communications Means is also means by which computing devices connected thereto can invoke encrypted communication protocols such as but not limited to secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS virtual private network VPN etc. to transmit and receive encrypted signals. The Communications Means is also means which can include a worldwide system of computer networks or a network of networks known as the Internet in which users at any one computing device can get information from any other computer device. The Communications Means is connected to the Transceiver a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D .

The Peer to Peer Network Program is means which can operate on a plurality of computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D . The Peer to Peer Network Program is also means to instruct the Operating System or a communication program thereof to communicate with another computing device e.g. Device C via Communications Means . The Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. Device D is also means to instruct the Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. Device A to transmit queries or instructions to the Operating System of the Device A during the execution of the functionality of the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A and the Device D . The Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. Device D is also means to receive instructions from the Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. Device A via Communications Means . The Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. Device A is also means to automatically receive from transmission a computer file e.g. the UserC FindMe File transmitted from another computer device e.g. Device C via a Communications Means and place an electronic copy thereof in RAM on the first computing device e.g. Device A . The Peer to Peer Network Program is also means to automatically instruct the Operating System of a computing device e.g. Device A to recall a computer file e.g. the UserC FindMe File from RAM and save an electronic copy thereof to Storage . The Peer to Peer Network Program is means to transmit a message to the User Interface of a computing device e.g. Device A upon completion of the execution of the functionality of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Peer to Peer Network Program is also means to enable users of computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to establish a trusted communications network. The Peer to Peer Network Program is also means to enable users of computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to utilize the trusted communications network to establish a communications session e.g. a chat session . The Peer to Peer Network Program is also means to enable users of computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to utilize the trusted communications network to share files between the computing devices. The Peer to Peer Network Program is also means to utilize communications protocols e.g. the FTP Protocol to automatically transmit a computer file e.g. the UserA FindMe File to other computing devices operating with the Peer to Peer Network Program via Communications Means . The Peer to Peer Network Program may be embodied in computer coding software such as but not limited to a program authored in the computer language C C Active Server Pages XML Visual Basic ActiveX Controls Java Script etc. to execute the described functions.

The Setup.exe File is means which can be transmitted to a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D via various means e.g. via download CD ROM etc. . The Setup.exe File is means which functionality can be invoked by a user of a computing device by a common process of double clicking on the file itself. The Setup.exe File is means which contains a copy of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Setup.exe File is means which automatically installs the Peer to Peer Network Program on a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D and makes the necessary modifications to the Operating System of the computing device necessary for proper functioning of the Peer to Peer Network Program .

The User Information File is a computer file such as but not limited to a text document etc. which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program from information manually inputted by the user of the computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D running the copy of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The User Information File is also a computer file which can include information specific to the host computing device which the information can be automatically collected by the Peer to Peer Network Program utilizing the Application Programming Interface of the host Operating System .

The FindMe Folder is the folder location in the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device B where a searchable file e.g. UserB FindMe File containing trusted network information on the computing device and the user thereof is to be saved. The FindMe Folder is created by the Setup.exe File upon initial installation of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The FindMe Folder can also be created by the Peer to Peer Network Program after the initial installation of the Peer to Peer Network Program either automatically or upon request by the respective user. Multiple FindMe Folders can be present on each computing device containing an embodiment of this invention.

The Searched FindMe Results Folder is the folder location in the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device B where computer files e.g. UserA FindMe File UserC FindMe File UserD FindMe File resulting from specific search queries performed by the Peer to Peer Network Program are to be saved by the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Searched FindMe Results Folder is created by the Setup.exe File upon initial installation of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Searched FindMe Results Folder can also be created by the Peer to Peer Network Program after the initial installation of the Peer to Peer Network Program either automatically or upon request by the respective user. Multiple Searched FindMe Results Folders can be present on each computing device containing an embodiment of this invention.

The Trusted Search Folder is the folder location in the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device B where computer files e.g. documents spreadsheets audio files e.g. ASF WMA MP3 WAV AUI video files e.g. ASF WMv AVI MPEG executable programs e.g. EXE etc. resulting from specific search queries performed by the Peer to Peer Network Program are to be saved by the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Trusted Search Folder can be searched by other computing devices running a copy of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Trusted Search Folder can be searched by other computing devices running a copy of the Peer to Peer Network Program utilizing File Sharing Protocols . The Trusted Search Folder is created by the Setup.exe File upon initial installation of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The Trusted Search Folder can also be created by the Peer to Peer Network Program after the initial installation of the Peer to Peer Network Program either automatically or upon request by the respective user. Multiple Trusted Search Folders can be present on each computing device containing an embodiment of this invention.

The CryptoAPI is means of an operating system e.g. the Operating System which enables computer programs and or applications to execute cryptographic functions of the operating system e.g. the Microsoft CryptoAPI an application programming interface . The CryptoAPI is also means of an Operating System which contains cryptographic functionality and which the Peer to Peer Network Program can utilize to execute encrypting and decrypting functions. The CryptoAPI is also means of an Operating System which includes functionality for encrypting and decrypting data and for authentication using digital certificates. The CryptoAPI is also means of an Operating System which provides certificate management functions maintaining and managing a persistent storage of certificates public keys and private keys in a certificate store e.g. the Cryptographic Service Provider . The CryptoAPI is also means of an Operating System which contains functions that can incorporate certificates in outgoing transmissions and or messages and verify digital certificates that are being received in received transmissions and or messages.

The Cryptographic Service Provider is means of the CryptoAPI which stores public private key pairs from session to session in persistent memory e.g. the Microsoft CSP . The Cryptographic Service Provider is also means of the CryptoAPI which can store public private key pairs in encrypted form in the system registry of the operating system e.g. the Operating System .

The Application Programming Interface is means of an operating system e.g. the Operating System which enables the Peer to Peer Network Program to programmatically retrieve specific information about the host computer e.g. the Microsoft Win32 API . The Application Programming Interface is also means of an operating system e.g. the Operating System which enables the Peer to Peer Network Program to programmatically retrieve specific IP address information about the network configuration of the host computer. The Application Programming Interface may include functionality of the CryptoAPI the Cryptographic Service Provider and other similar application programming interfaces.

The UserA Public Key is means which is used to decrypt files that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserA Private Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserA Public Key . The UserA Public Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserA Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device A by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserA Public Key is also means which can be transmitted to another computing device e.g. Device B Device C and Device D via various means e.g. via Communications Means floppy disk E mail Program etc. . The UserA Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of other computing device e.g. Device B Device C and Device D by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserA Public Key is also means which can decrypt files on other computing device e.g. Device B Device C and Device D that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserA Private Key .

The UserB Public Key is means which is used to decrypt files that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserB Private Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserB Public Key . The UserB Public Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserB Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device B by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserB Public Key is also means which can be transmitted to another computing device e.g. Device A Device C and Device D via various means e.g. via Communications Means floppy disk E mail Program etc. . The UserB Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of other computing device e.g. Device A Device C and Device D by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserB Public Key is also means which can decrypt files on other computing device e.g. Device A Device C and Device D that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserB Private Key .

The UserC Public Key is means which is used to decrypt files that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserC Private Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserC Public Key . The UserC Public Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserC Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device C by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserC Public Key is also means which can be transmitted to another computing device e.g. Device A Device B and Device D via various means e.g. via Communications Means floppy disk E mail Program etc. . The UserC Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of other computing device e.g. Device A Device B and Device D by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserC Public Key is also means which can decrypt files on other computing device e.g. Device A Device B and Device D that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserC Private Key .

The UserD Public Key is means which is used to decrypt files that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserD Private Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserD Public Key . The UserD Public Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserD Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device D by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserD Public Key is also means which can be transmitted to another computing device e.g. Device A Device B and Device C via various means e.g. via Communications Means floppy disk E mail Program etc. . The UserD Public Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of other computing device e.g. Device A Device B and Device C by the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserD Public Key is also means which can decrypt files on other computing device e.g. Device A Device B and Device C that have been encrypted with that certain private key e.g. UserD Private Key .

The UserA Private Key is means which is used to encrypt files which can be decrypted with that certain public key e.g. UserA Public Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserA Private Key . The UserA Private Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserA Private Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device A by the Cryptographic Service Provider .

The UserB Private Key is means which is used to encrypt files which can be decrypted with that certain public key e.g. UserB Public Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserB Private Key . The UserB Private Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserB Private Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device B by the Cryptographic Service Provider .

The UserC Private Key is means which is used to encrypt files which can be decrypted with that certain public key e.g. UserC Public Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserC Private Key . The UserC Private Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserC Private Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device C by the Cryptographic Service Provider .

The UserD Private Key is means which is used to encrypt files which can be decrypted with that certain public key e.g. UserD Public Key which forms the public private key pair with the UserD Private Key The UserD Private Key is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserD Private Key is also means which can be stored in persistent memory on the Storage of the host computing device e.g. Device D by the Cryptographic Service Provider .

The UserA FindMe File is a computer file e.g. a text file which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program . The UserA FindMe File contains information relating to the Device A and the user thereof. The UserA FindMe File can contain information such as the system name of the Device A the name of the user of the Device A the IP address of the Device A etc. The UserA FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information from the User Information File . The UserA FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information obtained by the Peer to Peer Network Program through use of the Application Programming Interface . The UserA FindMe File can be created by the Peer to Peer Network Program each time the Peer to Peer Network Program is started and any old versions of the UserA FindMe File can be overwritten with a new version to account for information changes to relating to the Device A and or the user thereof. The UserA FindMe File can exist in plaintext form and or ciphertext form. The UserA FindMe File can be encrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserA Private Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device A . The UserA FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserA Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device A . The UserA FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserA Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and Device D . The UserA FindMe File can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device A to other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and Device D .

The UserB FindMe File is a computer file e.g. a text file which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program . The UserB FindMe File contains information relating to the Device B and the user thereof. The UserB FindMe File can contain information such as the system name of the Device B the name of the user of the Device B the IP address of the Device B etc. The UserB FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information from the User Information File . The UserB FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information obtained by the Peer to Peer Network Program through use of the Application Programming Interface . The UserB FindMe File can be created by the Peer to Peer Network Program each time the Peer to Peer Network Program is started and any old versions of the UserB FindMe File can be overwritten with a new version to account for information changes to relating to the Device B and or the user thereof. The UserB FindMe File can exist in plaintext form and or ciphertext form. The UserB FindMe File can be encrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserB Private Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device B . The UserB FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserB Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device B . The UserB FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserB Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device A Device C and Device D . The UserB FindMe File can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device B to other computing devices e.g. Device A Device C and Device D .

The UserC FindMe File is a computer file e.g. a text file which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program . The UserC FindMe File contains information relating to the Device C and the user thereof. The UserC FindMe File can contain information such as the system name of the Device C the name of the user of the Device C the IP address of the Device C etc. The UserC FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information from the User Information File . The UserC FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information obtained by the Peer to Peer Network Program through use of the Application Programming Interface . The UserC FindMe File can be created by the Peer to Peer Network Program each time the Peer to Peer Network Program is started and any old versions of the UserC FindMe File can be overwritten with a new version to account for information changes to relating to the Device C and or the user thereof. The UserC FindMe File can exist in plaintext form and or ciphertext form. The UserC FindMe File can be encrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserC Private Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device C . The UserC FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserC Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device C . The UserC FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserC Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device D . The UserC FindMe File can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device C to other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device D .

The UserD FindMe File is a computer file e.g. a text file which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program . The UserD FindMe File contains information relating to the Device D and the user thereof. The UserD FindMe File can contain information such as the system name of the Device D the name of the user of the Device D the IP address of the Device D etc. The UserD FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information from the User Information File . The UserD FindMe File is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program and can contain information obtained by the Peer to Peer Network Program through use of the Application Programming Interface . The UserD FindMe File can be created by the Peer to Peer Network Program each time the Peer to Peer Network Program is started and any old versions of the UserD FindMe File can be overwritten with a new version to account for information changes to relating to the Device D and or the user thereof. The UserD FindMe File can exist in plaintext form and or ciphertext form. The UserD FindMe File can be encrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserD Private Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device D . The UserD FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserD Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of the Device D . The UserD FindMe File can be decrypted by the Peer to Peer Network Program with the UserD Public Key through use of the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device C . The UserD FindMe File can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device D to other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device C .

The UserA Public Key BLOB is means which stores public keys e.g. decryption keys outside the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserA Public Key BLOB is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserA Public Key BLOB is also means which can be used to store and transport the UserA Public Key . The UserA Public Key BLOB is also means which can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device A to other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and Device D . The Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and Device D can extract the UserA Public Key from the UserA Public Key BLOB and save the UserA Public Key to the Cryptographic Service Provider of the other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and Device D respectively.

The UserB Public Key BLOB is means which stores public keys e.g. decryption keys outside the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserB Public Key BLOB is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserB Public Key BLOB is also means which can be used to store and transport the UserB Public Key . The UserB Public Key BLOB is also means which can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device B to other computing devices e.g. Device A Device C and Device D . The Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device A Device C and Device D can extract the UserB Public Key from the UserB Public Key BLOB and save the UserB Public Key to the Cryptographic Service Provider of the other computing devices e.g. Device A Device C and Device D respectively.

The UserC Public Key BLOB is means which stores public keys e.g. decryption keys outside the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserC Public Key BLOB is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserC Public Key BLOB is also means which can be used to store and transport the UserC Public Key . The UserC Public Key BLOB is also means which can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device C to other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device D . The Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device D can extract the UserC Public Key from the UserC Public Key BLOB and save the UserC Public Key to the Cryptographic Service Provider of the other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device D respectively.

The UserD Public Key BLOB is means which stores public keys e.g. decryption keys outside the Cryptographic Service Provider . The UserD Public Key BLOB is also means which is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI . The UserD Public Key BLOB is also means which can be used to store and transport the UserD Public Key . The UserD Public Key BLOB is also means which can be transmitted via Communications Means from the Device D to other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device C . The Peer to Peer Network Program using the CryptoAPI of other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device C can extract the UserD Public Key from the UserD Public Key BLOB and save the UserD Public Key to the Cryptographic Service Provider of the other computing devices e.g. Device A Device B and Device C respectively.

The File Information Stream is a stream of informational data which is embedded into one of multiple streams which compose the entire file structure of the computer file which the File Information Stream is associated and is stored on Storage e.g. Microsoft NTFS storage device . The File Information Stream can also be a stream of data which is appended to associated with or related to the computer file. The File Information Stream can include information such as name of computer file date created author system on which the computer file was created description of the computer file etc. The File Information Stream is created by the Peer to Peer Network Program through use of the Application Programming Interface . The File Information Stream can be accessed by the Peer to Peer Network Program through use of the Application Programming Interface and the related information displayed to the user via the User Interface . The data can be a digital signal of any type of data business technical pleasure for instance including but not limited to a video digital signal a audio digital signal.

The E mail Program is means which enables the transfer or exchange of computer messages from one computing device to another computing device utilizing certain Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol protocols e.g. Simple Mail Transfer Protocol Post Office Protocol 3 Internet Message Access Protocol etc. . Computer messages transmitted via the E mail Program is can include text information attached computer files etc. The E mail Program is also means which enables a user of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to manually and electronically transfer a public key BLOB e.g. the UserA Public Key BLOB UserB Public Key BLOB UserC Public Key BLOB and UserD Public Key BLOB from the originating computing device to another computing device. The E mail Program is also means which enables a user of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to manually and electronically transfer of the name of the user FindMe file e.g. the UserA FindMe File UserB FindMe File UserC FindMe File and UserD FindMe File from the originating computing device to another computing device. The E mail Program is also means which enables the Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to automatically and electronically transfer a public key BLOB e.g. the UserA Public Key BLOB UserB Public Key BLOB UserC Public Key BLOB and UserD Public Key BLOB from the originating computing device to another computing device. The E mail Program is also means which enables the Peer to Peer Network Program of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D to automatically and electronically transfer of the name of the user FindMe file e.g. the UserA FindMe File UserB FindMe File UserC FindMe File and UserD FindMe File from the originating computing device to another computing device.

The Trusted Member List is a listing within the Peer to Peer Network Program which associates the user FindMe files e.g. the UserA FindMe File UserB FindMe File UserC FindMe File and UserD FindMe File with the IP address of the computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D respectively. The Trusted Member List can be updated each time the Peer to Peer Network Program is started. The Trusted Member List can be updated or refreshed on demand by the user of the Peer to Peer Network Program . The IP addresses listed in the Trusted Member List are utilized by the Peer to Peer Network Program to establish a trusted and decentralized peer to peer network.

The FTP Protocol is a standard Internet protocol known as the File Transfer Protocol. The FTP Protocol is generally known as the simplest way to transmit and or exchange computer files between computing devices on the Internet. The Peer to Peer Network Program can utilize the FTP Protocol to transmit and or exchange computer files via Communications Means between computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D . The Peer to Peer Network Program can utilize the FTP Protocol to communicate via Communications Means between computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D .

The HTTP Protocol is a standard Internet protocol known as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol. The HTTP Protocol is a common way to transmit and or exchange computer files between computing devices on the Internet. The Peer to Peer Network Program can utilize the HTTP Protocol to transmit and or exchange computer files via Communications Means between computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D . The Peer to Peer Network Program can utilize the HTTP Protocol to communicate via Communications Means between computing devices e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D .

The Chat Protocol is a system for electronic communications between computing devices that involves a set of rules and conventions and is known as Internet Relay Chat IRC and is a standard Internet protocol. The Chat Protocol is generally used for the real time exchange of typed in messages between a user of a computing device e.g. Device A and other users of other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and or Device D utilizing a communications means e.g. the Communications Means . The Chat Protocol can be used by the Peer to Peer Network Program to establish a private chat session between a user of a computing device e.g. Device A and other users of other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and or Device D in conjunction with the trusted and decentralized peer to peer network the Peer to Peer Network Program is able to establish.

The File Sharing Protocols are set of rules and conventions used to leverage other Internet protocols e.g. the FTP Protocol HTTP Protocol etc. to search designated file folders on a storage device e.g. the Storage of a computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C and Device D for computer files which match a query inputted by a user of a computing device. The File Sharing Protocols can be used by the Peer to Peer Network Program to execute a search and retrieval of a computer file based on requests manually inputted by a user of a computing device e.g. Device A of designated file folders e.g. Trusted Search Folder on a storage device e.g. the Storage of other computing devices e.g. Device B Device C and or Device D in conjunction with the trusted and decentralized peer to peer network the Peer to Peer Network Program is able to establish.

By means of the User Interface the user of a computing device with a connection to the Setup.exe File e.g. the Setup.exe File being on CD ROM the Storage etc. double clicks on the Setup.exe File to start the installation process. Next the Setup.exe File commences to copy the Peer to Peer Network Program onto the Storage . Next the Setup.exe File requests information from the user and the user inputs that information via the User Interface . Next the Setup.exe File saves that user information as a User Information File on the Storage . Next the Setup.exe File saves makes any necessary modifications to the system registry of the Operating System . Next the Setup.exe File creates the FindMe Folder the Searched FindMe Results Folder and the Trusted Search Folder on the Storage . These steps are performed for each computing device e.g. Device A Device B Device C Device D intended to run the Peer to Peer Network Program .

Next and upon first use of the Peer to Peer Network Program the Peer to Peer Network Program prompts the user of the host computing device to input a name which identifies that user e.g. UserA . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program calls cryptographic functionality of the CryptoAPI e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the CryptAcquireContext function of the Windows CryptoAPI of the Operating System to create a public private key pair. Next the CryptoAPI returns a handle to the Cryptographic Service Provider e.g. the Windows CryptoAPI returns a handle to the Microsoft RSA Schannel Cryptographic Service Provider to the Peer to Peer Network Program . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program calls cryptographic functionality of the CryptoAPI of the Operating System to instruct the Cryptographic Service Provider to execute the creation of the public private key pair e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the CryptGenKey function of the Windows CryptoAPI . Next the CryptoAPI instructs the Cryptographic Service Provider e.g. the Windows CryptoAPI instructs the Microsoft RSA Schannel Cryptographic Service Provider to create the public private key pair e.g. UserAPublic Key and UserA Private Key .

Next the Peer to Peer Network Program creates a plaintext version of the UserA FindMe File e.g. a text file and at this point UserA FindMe File is a blank file. Next the Peer to Peer Network Program calls functionality of the Application Programming Interface of the Operating System and obtains identifiable network information on the host computing device e.g. Device A e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the CurrentIpAddress function of the Windows API . Next the Application Programming Interface queries the Operating System and obtains identifiable network information on the host computing device e.g. Device A then the Application Programming Interface transmits the identifiable network information to the Peer to Peer Network Program . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program writes the identifiable network information into the plaintext version of the UserA FindMe File . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program calls cryptographic functionality of the CryptoAPI e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the CPEncrypt function of the Windows CryptoAPI of the Operating System to encrypt the UserA FindMe File with a private key e.g. the UserA Private Key . At this point the Peer to Peer Network Program is configured to execute other embodiments of the invention.

Next and each time the user initiates the Peer to Peer Network Program by means of the User Interface the Peer to Peer Network Program automatically searches each of the Trusted Search Folders for computer files lacking a File Info Stream through use of functionality of the Application Programming Interface of the Operating System e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the FileSystemObject object model of the Windows API to open write create and test computer files . Next and for each computer file in each of the Trusted Search Folders that lacks a File Info Stream the Peer to Peer Network Program calls functionality of the Application Programming Interface of the Operating System then opens the User Information File then writes information from the User Information File into the File Info Stream e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the FileSystemObject object model of the Windows API to open write create and test computer files . The Peer to Peer Network Program also enables the user of the host computing device to manually input other information into the File Info Stream for each related computer file and accomplishes this task by calling functionality of the Application Programming Interface of the Operating System then writes the information the user manually inputted into the File Info Stream e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the FileSystemObject object model of the Windows API to open write create and test computer files .

Next the user e.g. UserA of a computing device e.g. Device A inputs a command to the Peer to Peer Network Program via the User Interface to export their related public key e.g. UserA Public Key to a recipient or recipients being a user of a another computing device or to other users of other computing devices and the UserA inputs the E mail addresses of the recipient or recipients. Next the Peer to Peer Network Program calls functionality of the CryptoAPI of the Operating System to create a computer file capable of transporting the UserA Public Key e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the CryptExportKey function of the Windows CryptoAPI to generate a public key BLOB of UserA Public Key . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program instructs the E mail Program of the Device A to transmit to the recipient or recipients the name of the UserA FindMe File and a copy of the UserA Public Key BLOB . Next the E mail Program of a recipient s computing device e.g. Device B receives from transmission from the UserA the name of the UserA FindMe File and a copy of the UserA Public Key BLOB .

Next the user of the Device B upon receipt of E mail transmission from the UserA the name of the UserA FindMe File and the copy of the UserA Public Key BLOB instructs the Peer to Peer Network Program via the User Interface to import the UserA Public Key . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program instructs the CryptoAPI of the Operating System of the Device B to import the UserA Public Key from the UserA Public Key BLOB to the Cryptographic Service Provider e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the CryptImportKey function of the Windows CryptoAPI then the Windows CryptoAPI extracts the UserA Public Key from the UserA Public Key BLOB then the Windows CryptoAPI imports and the UserA Public Key to the Microsoft RSA Schannel Cryptographic Service Provider . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program writes an entry in the Trusted Member List establishing or mapping a relationship between the name of the UserA FindMe File as received from E mail transmission and the UserA Public Key .

Next the user of the Device A e.g. UserA instructs the Peer to Peer Network Program via the User Interface of Device A to search via the Communications Means for members who are then connected to the Communications Means listed in the Trusted Member List being the members of the trusted peer to peer network the Peer to Peer Network Program is capable of establishing via connected to the Communications Means . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program accesses the list of computer file names in the Trusted Member List and executes a search request of an un trusted peer to peer network for computer files matching the name of the computer files listed in the Trusted Member List utilizing the File Sharing Protocols . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program of another computing device e.g. Device B receives the search request for various computer files e.g. user FindMe files and transmits the computer files matching the search request e.g. UserB FindMe File to the Device A utilizing transmission protocols e.g. FTP Protocol HTTP Protocol .

Next the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A receives from transmission the UserB FindMe File then saves the UserB FindMe File in the FindMe Results Folder in Storage of the Device A . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program instructs the CryptoAPI of the Operating System of the Device A to decrypt the UserA FindMe File using the public key as associated with the UserA FindMe File in the Trusted Member List through use of the Cryptographic Service Provider e.g. the Peer to Peer Network Program calls the CPDecrypt function of the Windows CryptoAPI then the Windows CryptoAPI calls the UserB Public Key from the Microsoft RSA Schannel Cryptographic Service Provider then the Windows CryptoAPI decrypts the UserB FindMe File creating a plaintext version of the UserB FindMe File . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A opens the plaintext version of the UserB FindMe File and reads the identifiable network information e.g. the IP address of Device B then writes an entry in the Trusted Member List containing the identifiable network information of Device B the name of the UserB FindMe File and name of the UserB. At this point the user of the Device A is able to use the Peer to Peer Network Program to establish a trusted and decentralized peer to peer network utilizing the IP addresses listed on a member by member basis in the Trusted Member List .

Users of the Peer to Peer Network Program can utilize the trusted and decentralized peer to peer network to establish trusted chat sessions. This is accomplished when the user of a computing device e.g. Device A instructs the Peer to Peer Network Program via the User Interface to establish a chat session with user defined members listed in the Trusted Member List . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program reads the identifiable network information e.g. the IP address of the members in the Trusted Member List of the members then using the Chat Protocol the Peer to Peer Network Program transmits a chat session request to the computing devices e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. of the members e.g. UserB UserC UserD etc. . Each computing device that is then connected to the Communications Means utilizing identifiable network information e.g. IP address matching the identifiable network information listed on a member by member basis in the Trusted Member List of the Device A running the Peer to Peer Network Program and receives the transmitted chat session request from Device A utilizing the Chat Protocol then notifies the user e.g. UserB UserC UserD etc. of that particular computing device e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. via the User Interface of their respective computing device that a chat session has been initiated by a member of the trusted network. Next the user e.g. UserB UserC UserD etc. of that particular computing device e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. instructs the Peer to Peer Network Program to either accept or deny the chat session via the User Interface of their respective computing device. If the user e.g. UserB UserC UserD etc. of that particular computing device e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. instructs the Peer to Peer Network Program to deny the chat session via the User Interface of their respective computing device then the Peer to Peer Network Program denies the chat session utilizing the Chat Protocol and transmits a denial notification to the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A then the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A notifies the user e.g. UserA of the Device A that the chat session has been denied then the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device B ends the chat session utilizing the Chat Protocol . If the user e.g. UserB UserC UserD etc. of that particular computing device e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. instructs the Peer to Peer Network Program to accept the chat session via the User Interface of their respective computing device then the Peer to Peer Network Program accepts the chat session utilizing the Chat Protocol then the Peer to Peer Network Program maintains the chat session utilizing the Chat Protocol .

Users of the Peer to Peer Network Program can utilize the trusted and decentralized peer to peer network to conduct trusted file sharing or searching. This is accomplished when the user of a computing device e.g. Device A instructs the Peer to Peer Network Program via the User Interface to establish a file search of the computing devices controlled or operated by the members listed in the Trusted Member List by inputting the name of the computer file desired via the User Interface . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program reads the identifiable network information e.g. the IP address of the members in the Trusted Member List of the members then using the File Sharing Protocols the Peer to Peer Network Program transmits a search request for the computer file requested by UserA to the computing devices listed in the Trusted Member List e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. of the members e.g. UserB UserC UserD etc. . Each computing device that is then connected to the Communications Means utilizing identifiable network information e.g. IP address matching the identifiable network information listed on a member by member basis in the Trusted Member List of the Device A running the Peer to Peer Network Program and receives the transmitted file search request from Device A utilizing the File Sharing Protocols then the Peer to Peer Network Program of that particular computing device e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. searches for the requested file in the Trusted Search Folder .

If the requested computer file is not located by the Peer to Peer Network Program of a particular computing device e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. in the respective Trusted Search Folder then the Peer to Peer Network Program does not reply. If the requested computer file is located by the Peer to Peer Network Program of a particular computing device e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. in the respective Trusted Search Folder then the Peer to Peer Network Program transmits the name of the matching computer file along with any information found in the File Info Stream related to the matching computer file to the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A displays via the User Interface the computer file names and any information found in the File Info Stream related to the matching computer file received from any and or all computing devices e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. that have responded to the search request. Next the user of the Device A selects via the User Interface which computer file or computer files the Peer to Peer Network Program is to download via the trusted peer to peer network. Next the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A transmits a download request using communication protocols e.g. FTP Protocol HTTP Protocol to the computing device and or computing devices by means of the identifiable network information e.g. the IP address of the computing device and or computing devices in the Trusted Member List and as associated with the specific computer file or computer files selected by the UserA. Next the Peer to Peer Network Program of the computing device and or computing devices respectively e.g. Device B Device C Device D etc. containing the computer file or computer files selected by the UserA initiates a download of the computer file or computer files using communication protocols e.g. FTP Protocol HTTP Protocol . Next the Peer to Peer Network Program of the Device A receives and saves the download computer file or computer files to the Trusted Search Folder .

Although the invention has been described in detail in the foregoing embodiments for the purpose of illustration it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that variations can be made therein by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention except as it may be described by the following claims.

