---

title: Method and system for social media cooperation protocol
abstract: Methods and systems for social media cooperation, via allowing inter-social network communications between users of different networks is provided. The inter-social network communications may be facilitated by sending inter-social network communications in a format determined by a protocol that is used by the social networks agreeing to allow inter-social network communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09252976&OS=09252976&RS=09252976
owner: salesforce.com, inc.
number: 09252976
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121213
---
The following commonly owned co pending U.S. patents and patent applications including the present application are related to each other. Each of the other patents applications are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 714 384 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL MEDIA COOPERATION PROTOCOL by Joseph M. Olsen et al. filed Dec. 13 2012 and

The following commonly owned co pending U.S. patents and patent applications including the present application are related to each other. Each of the other patents applications are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 692 962 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL MEDIA COOPERATION PROTOCOL by Joseph M. Olsen et al. filed Dec. 3 2012.

This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 692 962 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL MEDIA COOPERATION PROTOCOL by Joseph M. Olsen et al. filed Dec. 3 2012 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 644 530 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL MEDIA COOPERATION PROTOCOL by Olsen et al. filed May 9 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 644 531 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL MEDIA COOPERATION PROTOCOL by Olsen et al. filed May 9 2012 this application separately claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 644 530 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL MEDIA COOPERATION PROTOCOL by Olsen et al. filed May 9 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 644 531 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR SOCIAL MEDIA COOPERATION PROTOCOL by Olsen et al. filed May 9 2012 and the entire contents of each of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The current invention relates generally to methods and systems for communications between social media.

The subject matter discussed in the background section should not be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in the background section. Similarly a problem mentioned in the background section or associated with the subject matter of the background section should not be assumed to have been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in the background section merely represents different approaches which in and of themselves may also be inventions.

Social networking and business networking influence the way people communicate. Because of the influence of social media on the way people communicate there are many social networks being developed and used by users throughout the world. For example Facebook MySpace Linkedin Google Twitter Chatter and other social networks have been created and developed in response to the social media craze.

One reason why inter social network communication may be desirable is that not every user is a member of every social network yet. One user may want to communicate socially with another user of a different social network e.g. a Chatter user may want to post something on a wall of a Facebook user or add something to another type of social feed of the Facebook user . Currently there is no protocol for social networks to communicate with each other. Having a protocol for inter social network communications facilitates inter social network communications between users of different networks. In this specification systems and methods including a protocol are provided that facilitate communications between social networks.

In at least one embodiment an inter social network protocol may be used for cross social network domain communications the inter social network protocol may also be referred to as a social media communications protocol . The protocol at one level sends messages between social network systems that interface between the social network systems. The protocol may include a message format. The message format may require that the message include information about the receiving user entity and also information about the sending user entity e.g. an identifier of the user and an identifier of the social network from which the message is sent and an identifier of the user and the social network to which the message was sent . In an embodiment when a social network receives a message via the protocol the social network validates the information. For example validating the information received may include 1 checking whether the receiving user is in fact a member of the social network receiving the message 2 checking whether the sender is blocked by the user that is designated as the receiver 3 checking whether the sending social network is a legitimate social network and or is part of a select group of social networks having a message sharing agreement and or 4 checking whether the message is spam for example.

If the message is validated the message may then be posted to the receiver s wall or stored in another manner where the receiver has access the word receiver refers to the receiving user and or other entity receiving the message and the word sender refers to the user and or other entity sending the message . In at least one embodiment the message may be sent to the receiver s direct message inbox such as in an instant message box or an inbox within a social network e mail application. In an embodiment the message may include an indication of the type of message the user intended to send.

One example system that may implement aspects of a social network such as salesforce.com s Chatter is a multi tenant database system. As used herein the term multi tenant database system refers to a database systems having multiple tenants. The various elements of hardware and or software of the multitenant database system may be shared by one or more tenants. For example a given application server may simultaneously process requests for a great number of customers and a given database table may store rows for a potentially much greater number of customers. Each tenant of the multitenant database system may pay rent license fees and or other fees in exchange for usage of a portion of the database of the multitenant database system. Each tenant may be an individual user company or other organization. Each tenant may be an organization that includes or is associated with multiple users that are members of the organization such as officers and employees which may have a level of access to the multitenant database as a result of the organization being a tenant of the multitenant database. Each tenant may also have customers that have access to the multitenant database as a result of the organization being a tenant of the multitenant database. Each user of the tenant may have different levels or access depending on the user s role in the organization. Each tenant may have its own set of customers which may also be individuals company s and or other organizations with their own set of members which may have access and or usage to a portion of the multitenant database as a result of being customers of the tenant. The multitenant database may be provided on demand meaning that the multitenant database is provided as a service to the tenants so that the tenants do not need to know SQL or anything about the internal working of the database or be concerned with maintaining the database. As used herein the term query plan refers to a set of steps used to access information in a database system.

Next mechanisms and methods for providing inter social network protocols will be described with reference to example embodiments.

The following detailed description will first describe systems for inter social network communications in accordance with embodiments and or embodiments in which methods for using and activating the protocols are detailed.

Network is a network that includes social networks that communicate with one another and optionally may include other users. Network may be any computer network and or wide area network such as the Internet. Network may be any combination of computer networks wide area networks local area networks and or phone networks.

Social network system may be a social network having multiple users that communicate with one another via communications that are uniquely associated with social networks such as by posting messages on walls sending intra social network e mails establishing connections and or friends and following other users. In this specification any mention of users friending one another may be substituted with users connecting with one another and any mention of users connecting with one another may be substituted with users friending one another. Social network system may also allow similar communications to occur between members of social network system and another social network. Server systems may be one or more systems run by one social network which may make up social network system .

Social network system may also be a social network having multiple users that communicate with one another via communications that are uniquely associated with social networks such as posting messages on walls sending intra social network e mails establishing connections and or friends and following other users. Social network system may also allow similar communications to occur between members of social network system and another social network such as social network system .

Server systems may be one or more computer systems that make up social network system and social network system may run server systems . Social network system may communicate with social network system via a pre established inter social network protocol. Although only two social networks are shown in there may be any number of social networks that use the same protocol to communicate with one another which may include any combination of social networks willing to be involved in the methods of cooperation and or that have inter social network communications. In other words in an embodiment social network system and social network system may be part of a group of social networks that allow their respective users to send messages via their social networks to users that are members of one of the other social networks of the group. Social network system and social network system are social networks that may communicate using the protocol with one another via network . In at least one embodiment of the method for cooperation among the networks a common protocol is defined so each social network may send messages receive messages such as requests to post messages on user s walls exchange inter social network instant messages connect other users follow other users and or send update information between networks. In at least one embodiment inter social network communications may involve verifying that each user is a valid user and each social network is a member of the group of social networks that agree to exchange inter social network messages with one another and or the users of the social networks. For example social network system and social network system implement a protocol that allows for cooperation and communications between users of the different networks.

Examples of current social networks include but are not limited to Facebook Google MySpace LinkedIn Twitter and Chatter. The social networks are not necessarily for just socializing but may be set up for specialized forms of communications or special types of information such as sharing career information sharing photographs posting recipes commenting on articles etc.

In a first user that is a member of a first social network using social network system having server systems and may want to communicate with a second user that is a member of a second social network system using one or server systems which may be different than server systems . The methods of this specification allow the first user to communicate with a second user on any social network systems assuming the social networks subscribe to social media cooperation protocol.

Protocol may be a protocol for implementing methods of sharing inter social network communications between users of different social networks. The protocol may be associated with an algorithm and a method to allow for cooperation between social networks via inter social network communications. In particular the protocol allows networks having the protocol to communicate with one another even if the two social networks are completely different from one another and have completely different Application Protocol Interfaces APIs . In one embodiment the protocol may be an XML defined protocol with header information that allows social networks to define security access terms access controls and other such features. The protocol could also be defined using a different markup language. Protocol may also be implemented at a more basic level e.g. at the bit and byte level. Protocol is discussed further in conjunction with below.

User system is a computing device of a first user. User system may be a computer system a mobile phone system or other system that is capable of communicating via network with social network system . User system allows a first user via a first social network to send a message via a second social network to a second user system.

User system is a computing device operated by a second user. Similar to user system user system may also be a computer system a mobile phone system or other system that is capable of communicating via network with social network system having server systems . User system allows a second user via a second social network systems to receive a message sent by a first user system from a first social network system . In the discussion that follows the user system plays the role of the sender and user system plays the role of the receiver. However either of user system and user system may play the role or sender or receiver.

As an example the first user might connect to Chatter and decide to send a message and or link to a second user that is not a member of Chatter but instead is a member of Facebook or some other social network. In at least one embodiment the users on both ends have to approve the request to send and or receive a message from another social network. The approval by the sender may simply involve approving the first user s sent request or message. In at least one embodiment a user on a different social network may be followed. In one implementation the user on a different social network may be followed without the agreement of the user being followed. User systems are discussed further in conjunction with .

Web client may be a browser or HTTP client or another application using a different protocol for communicating via network . User systems and using web client communicate via network with servers connected to network . User systems and may use web client to communicate with social network system having server systems and social network system having server systems . Optionally web client may include a patch plug in and or add on which may be related to protocol that facilitates communications with social network system and or social network system and or for sending inter social network communications. User systems and need not have the same web client .

Interface is the user interface for interacting with social network system and social network system . Different social network systems may have different interfaces. For example a social network such as Chatter may have its own interface which may include multiple web pages. A social network such as Facebook may have another interface associated with Facebook which may include another set of web pages. In an embodiment the interface may include one or more web pages having one or more tools fields and or links related to sending an inter social network communication. For example interface may include features for sending electronic mail to a user of another social network posting a message to or on the wall of a user of another social network friending a user of another social network connecting to a user of another social network and or following a user of another social network.

Views and are the interactive web pages that are part of interface . View and may be different web pages that are part of different interfaces which may be for accomplishing the same thing. For example view may be a first webpage of a first interface for sending a message to another user and view may be a second webpage of a different interface that is also for sending messages. However cooperating social networks may each have a particular set of commands and or boxes that may be used to communicate with other social networks via the methods discussed herein.

In at least one embodiment tools and mechanisms are provided for viewing data from one social network on another social network. In other words people may invite and be friends with users of other social networks. By allowing users of different social networks to communicate within one another via a mutually agreed upon protocol users do not need multiple social networking accounts to connect and follow friends acquaintances etc. Users may create a single account that has the tools and features that the users like and then interact with users from the other social network s through inter social network communications messages.

Example 1 provides an example of an embodiment of the social network cooperation protocol. The user Joe e.g. using user system wants to send a message to Ted e.g. using user system but Ted is not a member of the same social network as Joe e.g. using user system . For example Joe e.g. using user system is a member of Chatter and wants to post a message to Ted s Facebook page. Further Joe e.g. using user system is not a member of Facebook. In at least one embodiment Joe e.g. using user system opens his Chatter account types a message in his post box and includes a designator to send the message to Ted. The designator may be any set of symbols that indicate a user or entity and a social network. For example the designator could be something like TEDJOE.Facebook where means it is an outbound message TEDJOE is the user of the person on the other network and Facebook indicates the other social network.

Once Joe e.g. using user system inputs the designator Joe types a message and clicks send. The Chatter system processes the message recognizes based on the designator that the message is an outbound message and sends the message to Facebook as a message via the protocol. Facebook receives the inter social network communications message and checks to determine the intended recipient and the sender. Assuming there are no blocks on the sender that the receiving username is valid etc. the message may be posted to Ted s Facebook wall where Ted may respond to the message. In at least one embodiment the message is designated by Facebook as an inbound message and any response to the message is sent back to Joe.Chatter.

In at least one embodiment a direct messaging feature is available to the users of the social networks using the protocol and the message does not show up on a user s public wall. In at least one embodiment a message may be sent directly from the normal Post section. In at least one embodiment a user may customize how when and who may see the post. In at least one embodiment the inter social network communication messages that are posted on a wall are sent in a separate feed from other messages.

In one implementation a user from one social network can request to be a friend or otherwise connected to a user of another social network. Once approved in at least one embodiment users from outside a social network appear in the user s list of friends and or followers . Users of other social networks may be listed in a friends list or followers list with an out of network guest or other similar type of designation. A user from outside of a social network could simply be listed as a standard friend follower.

When a user posts to their wall in at least one embodiment the post is posted to the current social network e.g. so the friends followers on the current social network see the post and one or more messages are generated to the social networks associated with out of network friends followers. Since basic profile information about out of network users is maintained the messages may be forwarded to the out of network users when a post is made to a wall.

In at least one embodiment a post with an associated set of out of network users is rolled up into one message that is then forwarded to the other network s . For example a single post listing all the Facebook friends followers may be rolled into the same message all the Google users and associated post may be rolled up into the same message etc. Alternatively a separate message may be sent for each user of an out of network system.

In at least one embodiment aliasing entities may be used to send an inter social network communications message to multiple feeds simultaneously. By using aliases users may register at a central repository with one alias name that forwards all inter social network communications messages to all their feeds. For example Joe registers at a central registry as Joe.Registry and associates all his social network usernames with the Registry e.g. JoeOlsen.Chatter JoeOlsen.Facebook JoeOlsen.Google etc. . Then if a user wants to contact Joe via all his social media accounts merely sends an inter social network communications message to joe.registry.

Starting with as part of method in optional step user system or requests updates to interface . For example requesting updates may include the user clicking on a user interface control e.g. a box or web page associated with the social network that allows the user to send a message via protocol . The request for updates may also include the client s act of choosing an option that is available on the web page to send to or receive a message from another social network. In this specification the choosing of an option is considered within the scope of the requesting an update to the interface because in order to fulfill the request the server needs to send a dialog box another webpage and or a modified version of the same webpage in response which are all forms of updates to the webpage which may include more features related to the option .

In step user system the sender receives update s from sender s social network social network system . By way of example receiving the update may include after choosing an option or a web page a form may be presented to the client for sending a message. The form may be a special webpage or a special section of a webpage. Optionally there may be a simple option on the social network webpage that allows a user to send one of its standard messages to a user of another social network via an inter social network communication. The user may be given an elaborate interface that allows the user to do a variety of actions or the user may be given a simple choice to post to one or more additional social networks and more specifically to users of the one or more additional social networks.

In step user system or sends an indication of one or more intended recipients recipient to social network system or . For example the user via interface on user system or may indicate the intended recipient. As part of the protocol message format a message may include a section indicating the intended recipient. The user may indicate an intended recipient and or an intended recipient s social network s . In one implementation the user makes the indication by filling in a field with the user name social network name or alias of the recipient. In at least one embodiment this may include an intended recipient at any social network that is different from the sender s social network. The information entered by the user may then be sent from user system or to social networks system or 

In step user system or sends an indication of the recipient s social network. For example as part of the protocol message format there may be an indication of the social network at which the recipient is a member. The user may enter the recipient s social network in a field provided in interface or select the social network from a pull down menu in interface listing several social networks. In at least one embodiment if the social network is not a member of a particular group of social networks the current social network identifies the social network as not a member and sends a message to the sender indicating that messages cannot be sent to the target social network. Assuming that an acceptable network is chosen the information entered by the user as part of step may then be sent from user system or to social networks system or . The indication of the recipient and the recipient s social network may be sent together to social network system having server systems or 

In step user system indicates the type of communication which is sent from user machine to social network system . Step may be an explicit step resulting from the user input into user system or may occur implicitly as a result of the user interacting with a particular portion and or link of the interface that is dedicated to a particular type of communication. For example interface may have one page for preparing an inter social network and or intra social network e mails another page for preparing an inter social network and or intra social network instant message another page for preparing an inter social network and or intra social network friend request another page for preparing an inter social network and or intra social network follow request and or another page for preparing an inter social network and or intra social network request to view a wall. From the set of information sent from user system to social network social network may determine the type of communication or user system may send an identifier expressly indicating the type of communication.

Steps may be performed in any order with respect to one another and or concurrently. Steps and are optional. In optional step a determination is made as to whether the indicated recipient is online. The determination may be made by user machine sending a message to social network system having server systems to one of social network system to determine whether user system is online. User system may periodically send messages to social network system . Alternatively user system may send one or more messages to social network system that cause social network system having server systems to periodically send a message to social network system requesting whether user system is online and or to send a message requesting social network system to periodically send messages indicating whether user system is online.

In optional step an indication is placed in a webpage of interface in view as to the availability of the recipient. User system may receive information from social network system for rendering a webpage having the indication. For example the indication may be displayed in the form of an icon or short text stating whether the recipient is currently online.

If the information about the intended recipient is already stored at social network system having server systems prior to starting method steps and may be performed at any of several points with or with respect to in method . For example steps and may be performed upon opening interface prior to starting method at the same point in the flow diagram where step is located and or at any point prior in the flow diagram for method .

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

If the user decides to follow another user on another social network method proceeds from step to step . In step user system sends a request to social network system to follow a user that is a member of a second social network social network system .

In step user system may optionally receive a confirmation that the follow request was accepted or an indication that the request was denied. For example a confirmation of the follow request may include a prompt an email sent to the social media site an email sent to the sender s inbox and or a webpage of the followed user e.g. the user s wall .

Returning to step after step if the user decided to connect or friend another user on another social network as indicated in step method proceeds from step to step . In step user system may optionally send a connect request and or a friend request to social network system which is intended to the user of user system . For example sending the connect request may include sending a request via a first social network social network system to second social network social network system for a user of the second social network to accept the first user associated with user system as a friend of the second user associated with user system .

In step the sender may optionally receive confirmation that a friend request was accepted. For example the confirmation may include receiving a popup message or an email message sent to an inbox or a message on the sender s wall.

Returning to step after step if the user decides to send a message such as an inter social network e mail inter social network post or an inter social network instant message to another user on another social network as indicated in step method proceeds from step to step .

In step a message may be received from the sender which is the user of user system at user system . The sender may optionally input one or more messages via interface . For example inputting the messages may include inputting text a picture audio content video content and or any type of message or a mixture thereof . The message may be entered into a field of a prompt box for an instant message an e mail message or another type of message that is sent to the recipient via the sender s social network system and the receiver s social network system to the receiver. In step the sender may submit the message that was entered in step to the sender s social network social network system . In at least one embodiment a message may be sent via selecting an icon such as an icon of a button.

In step then the client may optionally receive a confirmation that the sending of the message was successful. For example the confirmation may include an immediate prompt an email and or a message on a wall of the sender.

Returning to step if the sender decides to post a message on the wall of another user on another social network as indicated in step method proceeds from step to step . In step user system sends a request to social network system to view a wall of a user that is a member of a second social network social network system .

In one implementation when the user decides to post or send a message to a recipient on a different social network the user simply uses the standard post and or messaging tools provided by their social network. In one implementation the user uses a symbolic function such as the sign to indicate that a user on a different social network should also receive the message. Or as discussed herein an option to post or share the message or post may also include an option to post or send the message to user s on a different social network. In one implementation if a recipient on a different social network follows or is a friend with the user the posted message automatically is posted to the recipient s feed on his social network.

In step user system waits for a view of the requested wall. If the user receives a view of the wall method proceeds from step to step . In step the user system optionally sends a message for posting on the wall received to social network system . Optionally in step user system receives from social network system a view of the wall with the added post. After step method proceeds to step . Returning to step if user system does not receive a view of the requested wall method proceeds from step to step . For example user system may receive a message from social network system that the wall is not public the recipient does not exist or a time period set by user system for waiting for the view may expire.

After step or method proceeds to step . In step user system or waits for input from the user as to whether to return to step or to end the process. If the user chooses to exit the process the process may be restarted with a further request to receive an updated webpage.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

In as well as anywhere in this specification whenever there is a communication between social network system and as necessary prior to sending the communication the communication is placed into the format determined by the protocol which may require converting a communication from a format used within the social network sending the communication e.g. from the format used within social network to the format of the protocol. Similarly in as well as anywhere in this specification whenever there is a communication between social network system and after receiving the communication as necessary the communication is converted from the format determined by the protocol to a format used within the social network that received the communication. In one implementation the format used within the social network is the same as the protocol.

In step a request is received from the user system of the sender to access a portion of or update to information in interface . For example step may include receiving a request the user for access to a webpage and or receiving a choice of an option on a webpage of a website of a social network.

In step interface or an update to interface is sent from social network system to the user system of the sender. By way of example step may include the server sending a webpage containing a number of choices for sending messages to a user in a different social network as well as having choices for sending messages to a user in the same social network .

In step information is received at social network system related to an intended recipient that is a member of a destination social network system . In at least one embodiment step may result from the user filling out the information on a webpage or in a section of a webpage on a social network site and user system sending the information entered by the user to social network system . The information that the user needs to send a message may include but is not limited to one or more of the following the recipient s name username password email address the recipient s network and or how the user knows the recipient.

In optional step information is stored related to the intended recipient and destination social network. In at least one embodiment step may include storing any information received in step such as the name of the intended recipient and the social network that the intended recipient is a member of By storing the information as part of step in the future messages may be sent to the intended recipient more efficiently.

In step a message is received from user system at social network system that is intended to be sent to the user of a different social network. A message can be a simple request for information a request for permission to post a message including text or other data to post in a social feed etc. Embodiments may use message and request interchangeably e.g. by substituting work request for work message . Step may include receiving the text of an inter social network e mail a text to post on a wall text to accompany a request to follow the other user and or text to accompany a request to friend or connect to the other user.

In optional step the message may be placed by social network system having server systems into a particular format established by the protocol for receipt by destination social network. For example the format may include a particular location in the message for an indication of the type of message a particular location for the text accompanying the message a particular location for an identifier of the intended recipient a particular location for an identifier of the social network of the intended recipient a particular location for an identifier of the sender and a particular location for an identifier of the social network of sender.

In step communications are established by server systems with the destination social network social network system having server systems . In at least one embodiment step may include a handshaking procedure such as social network system having server systems sending a message to social network system indicating that a message is coming and receiving an acknowledgment from social network system at social network system .

In step a query is sent from social network system having server systems to a destination social network social network system having server systems to confirm existence of an intended recipient. In at least one embodiment step may include sending the information that the sender included in the message and requesting that social network system having server systems use the information to formulate a search query to find the recipient in a database of members of social network system having server systems .

In step a response indicating whether recipient exists is received from social network system at social network system having server systems . In at least one embodiment step may include a response indicating that the intended recipient was not found or a response indicating that the recipient was found.

In step based on the response from social network system having server systems social network system having server systems determines whether the recipient exists.

If the recipient exists following the Yes branch of the flowchart the social network system having server systems proceeds to step . In step a message is sent from social network system to social network system having server systems requesting whether the intended recipient is online.

In step in response to step a message is received at social network system from social network system having server systems indicating whether the intended recipient is online.

In step the indication of whether the intended recipient is online is sent from social network system to user system . If the information about the intended recipient is already stored at social network system having server systems prior to starting method steps may be performed at any of several points with or with respect to method . For example steps may be performed upon opening interface prior to starting method at the same location in the flow diagram where step is located and or at any location prior in the flow diagram for method .

In step social network system having server systems may send the message request to social network system having server systems on behalf of user system . Step may include sending an instant message. Optionally a confirmation of the receipt of the message may be received at social network system having server systems from social network system .

Then in optional step a confirmation is sent from social network system having server systems to user system of the sender that the message request was sent.

Returning to step if the recipient does not exist then in step the server may optionally send an indication of failure in sending the message to the user system of sender following the No branch of the flowchart . In at least one embodiment step may include an immediate prompt an email or a message on a wall and the method may end until further requests are received. The message may specifically say the recipient is not a member of the chosen network or the message may simply say that the message was not sent due to a failure and provide more information about why there was a failure is sending the message. As part of sending a message the sender s social network system may set an indicator indicating the type of message e.g. e mail instant message friend request request to view wall follow request . As part of the receiving the message the receiving social network may read the indicator to determine the type of message received.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

If in step social network system determines that the type of message received was a request to follow another user on another social network method proceeds from step to step .

In step after placing the follow request which was received from user system in step into the format of protocol social network system may optionally send to social network system the follow request.

In step social network system may optionally receive from social network system a confirmation that the follow request was accepted or an indication that the request was denied.

In step social network system may send the confirmation which was receive from social network system to user system indicating the follow request was accepted or an indication that the request was denied.

Prior to discussing the next step after step the other branches of method of that are parallel to step will be discussed.

Returning to step after step if the user decided to connect or friend another user on another social network as indicated in step and step method proceeds from step to step . For example if it is determined that the message of step was a request to friend a user on another social network method proceeds from step to step . In step after placing the friend request which was received from user system in step into the format of protocol social network system may optionally send the connect request and or a friend request to social network system to be forwarded to user system .

In step the social network system may optionally receive from social network system an indication that is formatted according to protocol that indicates whether the friend request was accepted or denied. In step the social network system may optionally send an indication of whether the friend request was accepted or denied to user system . Prior to discussing the next step after step the branch of method that starts with step will be discussed.

Returning to step after step if the user decides to send a message to another user on another social network as indicated in step and step method proceeds from step to step . For example if it is determined that the message received in step is an inter social network e mail or inter social network instant message intended for user system method proceeds from step to step . In step after placing the message received in step into the format of protocol the message that was received from user system may be sent from social network system to social network system .

In step social network system may optionally receive a confirmation from social network system in the format of protocol that the sending of the message was successful.

In step social network system may optionally send the confirmation from social network system to user system that the sending of the message was successful.

Returning to step if the user decides to post a message on a wall of another user on another social network as indicated in step and step method proceeds from step to step . For example if social network system determines that the message received from user system in step was a request to view a wall of another user on another social network as indicated in step and step method proceeds from step to step . In step social network system a request to view the wall of the user of user system is sent in the format of the protocol from social network system to social network system .

In step social network system optionally receives e.g. in the format of protocol information about a view of the wall requested from social network system . If the user decides to post a message on the wall method proceeds from step to step . In step the social network system optionally receives a message from user system that is intended to be posted on the wall.

In step the social network system optionally sends the message that is intended to be posted from social network system to social network system . Optionally in step social network system receives e.g. in the format of protocol from social network system information about the wall with the added post. In step social network system sends from social network system to user system information for rendering a view of the wall with the added post the rendering information is determined by social network system but is based on the information sent in the message from social network system . After step method terminates terminating method .

Returning to step if user system does not send a message for posting on the wall method terminates terminating method . Similarly after steps and method terminates which terminates this embodiment of method .

In this way and other ways described herein a user is provided by social network system with a wall and or a feed that shows posts comments messages etc. not only from users of social network but also shows posts comments messages etc. from users of other social networks such as social network .

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

In step social network system having server systems receives a request from social network system having server systems to confirm that the intended recipient is a member of the social network of social network system having server systems .

In step social network system checks to see whether the social network of social network system is an approved social network. By way of example step may include searching for an identifier of the social network of social network system in a list stored at social network system having server systems to determine if the identifier is in the list. If the identifier is found in the list it is assumed that the social network of social network system is approved and if the identifier is not found it is assumed that the social network of social network system is not approved. Note the identifier and the message may be encrypted or hash tagged for security. This may be true in this message sending context or in other contexts described herein.

If the social network of social network system is not an approved social network then method proceeds from step to step following the No branch of the flowchart . In step a message may be sent from social network system having server systems to the sender s social network social network system indicating the network was refused. By way of example step may include sending an email message or a prompt box that tells the user in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the message was not approved. The message may also include an audio sound or may be an audio message. After step method ends.

Returning to step if the social network of social network system is an approved network then method proceeds from step to step following the Yes branch of the flowchart . In step the server may check to see whether the recipient exists. By way of example step may include searching a list of members of the network associated with social network system to identify whether the recipient is a member of that social network.

If the recipient does not exist then method proceeds from step to step following No branch of the flowchart . In step the social network system may send a message to sender s social network social network system indicating that the recipient does not exist. By way of example sending the message indicating that the recipient does not exist may include an inter social network email message or a prompt box that tells the user in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the network was not approved. The message may also include a sound portion such as an audio message. After step method terminates.

If the recipient does exist then method proceeds from step to step following the Yes branch of the flowchart . In step social network system may check to see whether the sender is blocked. By way of example step may include searching a list of blocked senders a list of members of the sender s social network and or a list of approved senders to see whether the sender is included in the list. In at least one embodiment a sender may be blocked if the recipient added the sender to the list of blocked senders reported the sender for sending spam or otherwise did not want to receive messages from the sender. Checking to see whether the sender is blocked may help avoid situations in which the sender is sending from a false account of an approved social network.

If the sender is blocked then method proceeds from step to following the Yes branch of the flowchart . In step a message is sent from social network system to the sender s social network social network system indicating that the sender is blocked. By way of example step may include an email message a message on a wall or a prompt box that tells the user in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the network was not approved. The message may also include sound or may be an audio message. After step the method ends.

Returning to step if the sender is not blocked then method proceeds from step to step following the No branch of the flowchart . In step the server may check to see if the message is spam and if the message is spam then method may end. By way of example checking whether the message is spam may include identifying characteristics associated with the message that identify the message as being spam such as the lack of a subject of the presence of keywords associated with products that are commonly advertised via spam. Alternatively or additionally the user may view the message and indicate that the message is spam.

If the message is not spam then method proceeds from step to step following the No branch of flowchart . In step social network system may store the message in association with the recipient s account such as in an inbox or on a wall of the recipient.

Next in step the social network system having server systems may optionally send an indicator to the recipient user system that the message has been received from the sender. By way of example step may include sending an email instant message or message on a wall in a social network.

Next in step the social network system having server systems may optionally send the user system of recipient interface update. After step method ends.

Returning to step if the message is a spam message Yes then method proceeds from step to . In step social network system may send a prompt to block the sender refuse the message. By way of example an email message or a prompt box that may be sent to the sender in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the network was not approved. By way of example step depending on the type of communication may include storing the message under a designation of Spam. For example there may be a folder or other storage area labeled spam or labeled with an equivalent label in which spam messages are stored. By storing the message under a designation Spam the user may decide whether the user wants to open the message. Different types of messages that have been determined to be spam may be treated differently. For example an inter social network e mail that have been determined to be spam may be stored in a spam folder where as an inter social network instant message that has been determined to be spam may never be passed on to the intended recipient.

Next in step social network system may receive blocking instructions. The social network system having server systems may receive or store instructions about how to handle blocked messages. For example the instructions may indicate which part of the user s social network page is blocked from the sender. A determination of whether to block the message may depend on the type of message. For example inter social network e mail for a particular sender may be blocked but inter social network chat messages from the same sender may not be blocked. As another example at step social network system having server systems may wait for the intended recipient to indicate how to handle the message.

In step social network system having server systems may decide how to handle the incoming message based on the instructions of step to accept the message.

If the server decides to accept the message method proceeds from step to step following the Yes branch of the flowchart . In step the message may be delivered with an optional spam indicator. By way of example step may include a warning that the message may be Spam at the beginning of the message.

If the server decides not to accept the message No method proceeds from step to step In step social network system having server systems may decide whether to block the sender of the message in step only the message is blocked whereas in step the sender is blocked . The fact that message was blocked in step may be an indication that all messages from the same sender should be blocked. By way of example step may include adding the sender to a list of blocked users. The blocked users may be identified by name username password email address name or username associated with any one of the social networks profile etc. If in step social network system decides No not to block the sender method ends because even though the sender was not blocked the message was blocked .

Returning to step if step decides Yes to block the sender then method proceeds from step to step . In step the sender is blocked. By way of example this may include adding the sender to a list of blocked users and or removing the sender from a list of approved senders. After step method ends.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

In step a request may be received at social network system having server systems to confirm the recipient s existence from the sender s social network social network system having server systems . At step the social network system having server systems may ascertain whether the social network of social network system having server systems is an approved network. By way of example step may include searching the list of social networks that have agreed to be a part of a group of social networks that permit inter social network communications among one another. If the social network of social network system having server systems is not a member method proceeds from step to step .

In step social network system having server systems may send a message to the sender s social network indicating the network was not an approved network and hence refused. By way of example step may include sending an email message a message on the wall or a prompt box that tells the user in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the network was not approved. The message may also include an audio sound or may be an audio message. After step method ends.

Returning to step if social network system having server systems is an approved network method proceeds from step to step following the Yes branch of the flowchart . In step the social network system having server systems may check to see if the recipient is valid. By way of example step may include searching for the recipient in a list of members of the social network to which the message was sent.

In step if the recipient does not exist then method proceeds from step to step following the No branch of the flowchart . In step social network system having server systems may optionally send an indication of the failure to find the recipient via social network system having server systems to the user system of the sender. In an embodiment step may include sending an email message placing a message on the wall or a prompt box that tells the user in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the network was not approved. After step method ends.

Returning to step if the recipient does exist Yes then method proceeds from step to step . In step the social network system having server systems may send an indication to user machine of the recipient that the request was received. In at least one embodiment step may include sending an email message a message on the wall or a prompt box that tells the user in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the request was received.

In step the social network system having server systems receives instructions from the recipient. For example if the request was a friend request the recipient may decide not to accept the friend request and may send instructions not to set up the connection. In step social network system having server systems may decide whether to accept the request based on the recipient s instructions received in step .

If in step social network system having server systems decides not to accept the request method proceeds from step to step following the No branch of the flowchart . In step social network system having server systems may optionally send an indicator to the sender s social network that the request was rejected. In at least one embodiment this may include an email immediate message or message on a wall in a social network and the method may end until further requests are received. After step method ends.

Returning to step if social network system having server systems decides to accept the request then method proceeds from step to step following the Yes branch of the flowchart . In step the social network system having server systems may optionally send an indicator to the sender s social network that the request was accepted.

Next in step then the social network system having server systems may store an indicator that the request was accepted. In at least one embodiment step may include an email instant message or message on a wall in a social network and the method may end and may be restarted when further requests are received.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

If it is determined that a follow request was received method proceeds from step to step . In step social network system may add a request to follow the user of user system to an account at social network system where user system may view the request the next time user system accesses social network system and or user system may send the follow request to user system .

In step when social network system receives a reply to the follow request social network system determines whether user system indicated to accept the follow request.

In step social network system may send a confirmation that the follow request was accepted or an indication that the follow request was not accepted. Additionally if the follow request was accepted settings on the account being followed may be changed to allow the user of user system to follow the user of user system at social network system After step method terminates.

Returning to step if it is determined that a request to connect or friend another user on another social network was received method proceeds from step to step . In step social network system may add the connect request and or the friend request to the user account of the user of user system and or may send the request to user system .

In step upon receiving input from user system social network system determines whether the connect friend request was accepted or denied. If the connect friend request was accepted then settings may be changed at the user s account. For example the user of user system may be added to a list of friends in the account at social network system of the user of user system . In step social network system may optionally send an indication of whether the connect friend request was accepted to social network system . The indication may be sent from social network system to social network system .

Returning to step if it is determined that the type of the message is an e mail or instant message method proceeds from step to step . In step the message is placed in the user s inbox or if the message is of the instant message type and the user is online the message appears in an instant message box.

In step social network system may optionally send a confirmation from social network system to social network system that the sending of the message was successful. When a reply is sent the methods of are performed except with user system having the role of user system user system having the role of user system social network system having the role of social network system and social network system having the role of social network system .

Returning to step if the type of the message is a request to view a wall method proceeds from step to step . In step social network system determines whether the wall of user system is public and therefore viewable by the user of user system .

If in step it is determined that the wall is public then method proceeds from step to step . In step social network system optionally sends information for rendering a view of the wall to social network system . If the user decides to post a message on the wall method proceeds to step . In step the social network system optionally receives a message from social network system with a request to post the message on the wall.

In step the social network system places the message on the wall. For example the message may be stored in a storage area and in a format associated with posts on the wall. In step social network system sends to social network system information for rendering a view of the wall with the added post. After steps and method terminates.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

Optionally in step an indication is received at user system that a message or request was received from user system via social network system having server systems and social network system . In at least one embodiment receiving the indication that the message was received may include receiving an email message a message on the wall or a prompt box that tells the user in real time substantially real time or at some predetermined interval that the request was received.

In step interface is received by user system from social network or a request for interface is sent from user system to social network system and interface is received.

In step optionally a prompt is received which presents to the user an option to block the sender refuse the message and or decline the request. In at least one embodiment step may include sending an interactive box that allows the user to decide how to handle the incoming message and or request.

Optionally in step instructions are sent from user system to social network system having server systems for blocking the sender and or otherwise handling the sender.

Optionally in step instructions are sent from user system to social network system having server systems for accepting declining or otherwise handling the message.

Optionally in step if the message was not blocked by user system the message is received at user system from social network system .

Optionally in step a selection is made at user system to send a message to social network system having server systems to store information related to the sender and or the sender s social network for future use. For example user system may request that a profile be established at social network system having server systems for the sender associated with user system .

Optionally in step a reply message is input by the recipient via interface at user system . The reply message may be a message that responds to a text message sent by the sender and or may be a text message or other message responding to a friend request a post on a wall and or a request to follow the recipient. The reply message may be in the form of a post on the sender s wall an inter social network instant message and or an inter social network e mail for example.

Optionally in step a submit request is received at user system via user input from the recipient into user system the recipient is associated with user system . The submit request may cause user system to send the message prepared at user system to social network system having server systems which is then automatically sent via social network system to user system . Alternatively the message prepared in step by the user is automatically sent to social network system having server systems but is not sent to social network system or user system unless and until the submit request is received from user system at social network system .

In step optionally a confirmation is received from social network system at user system that the sending of the reply message was successful. When user system sends an inter social network communication back to user system the methods are carried out as described above except that any mention of user system is replaced with user system any mention of user system is replaced with user system any mention of social network system is replaced with social network system and any mention of social network system is replaced with social network system 

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

If user system requests to follow a user on social network system method proceeds from step to step . In step user system receives a request from social network system for the user of user system to follow the user of user system who is a member of social network system .

In optional step user system may indicate whether to accept or reject the follow request which may thereby send an indication to social network system that the follow request was accepted or rejected.

Prior to discussing the next step that comes after step in method the other branches of method of that are parallel to step will be discussed.

Returning to step after step if the user of user system decided to connect or friend the user of user system on social network system as indicated in step method proceeds from step to step . In step the user system may optionally receive a connect request and or a friend request from social network system . For example receiving the connect request may include receiving a request via a social network system from social network system on behalf of a user of social network system to accept the user of user system as a friend of the user of social network system .

In step the user system may optionally send a confirmation that a friend request was accepted or rejected. Prior to discussing the next step after step the branch of method that starts with step will be discussed.

Returning to step after step if the user of user system decides to send a message to the user of user system on social network system as indicated in step method proceeds from step to step . In step a message may be received by the user at user system from social network system which came via social network system from user system . For example the message may be in an e mail format in an instant message format or in some other message format.

In step user system may optionally send a reply message to social network system which is intended to be sent via social network system to user system .

Returning to step if the user of system decides to post something on the wall of the user of user system as indicated in step method proceeds from step to step . In step user system receives from social network system a view of the wall of the user of user system that includes a post from the user system even though the user of user system does not belong to the same social network as the user of user system .

After step or method proceeds to step . In step user system waits for input from the user as to whether to return to step or to end the process. If the user chooses to exit the process the process may be restarted with a further request to receive an updated webpage.

In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in step may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

Extra network profiles are profiles of users from one or more other social networks. In this case the profiles may be from any social network participating in the protocol e.g. those profiles of social networks that have chosen to allow inter network communications between users . For example a user might be using a social network such as Chatter and may want the social network to be able to keep track of other friends in other networks such as Twitter and Facebook .

Protocol may be an embodiment of protocol . Protocol is the convention agreed upon by the networks involved in the social network cooperation system for sending messages posting messages receiving messages etc. Protocol is a standardized format for sending messages between different networks e.g. walls inbox for posting messages and allows for conversion from one format to another. Protocol will be discussed further in conjunction with . Protocol defines a standard format for profile and other features so that each social network in one embodiment may maintain profiles for users of other networks within the group of networks that agree to the protocol e.g. so the out of network users show up in friends lists and are easily searchable and includable on messages . These profiles may be very sparse e.g. limited to the user s name and or originating social network or in some implementations the profiles may be as robust as any other profile in the social network.

The algorithm may be an algorithm for implementing protocol which may include steps that allow conversion from the format used by the protocol to a format used by a local server or from a format used by a local server to the protocol format. The algorithm has a driver to translate whatever protocol used in operating system of the protocol to something the other operating system understands. In one implementation participating social networks do not need to convert formats because they use the same protocol throughout their systems.

User account which may include Wall intra network followers extra network followers Intra network connections and Extra network connections is the part of the memory associated with each user that stores information related to the user s account such as login information billing information information about the user s wall the user s inbox the user s sent messages. The wall is an area in memory for storing information about the wall of the user having user account . The wall is an agreed upon format for posting messages at the user s account that others may view if the user has granted access to the wall. Wall may store the posts that appear on the user s wall.

The intra network followers is a storage area for storing information about followers of the user having user account . The followers may be those users that have been granted access to view parts of the user account . The intra network connections include a memory location for storing information about the connections that are associated with the specific users that are within the social network of the current user. The extra network followers is a memory location for storing information about users that follow that user of user account that are associated with the specific user that are members of a different social network than the user of user account . The extra network connections is a memory location for storing information about the connections between the user of user account and other users that are members of social networks that are different than the social network having the user account . Central repository stores a lists of aliases of users. Each alias is an address at a social network or another service. In other words a user may enter each of the user s usernames for a number of different social networks and or other services. Then when a user receives a message at the repository a message is sent to each alias. Central repository is discussed further in conjunction with .

Protocol allows messages which might ordinarily be of a type that are only shared or sent within a social network between users of the same social network to be sent from one social network to another and between users of different social networks.

The message format is the format that is agreed to for sending messages in protocol . Message format may include a place for indicating the target social network e.g. the network that the message is being sent to source social network target user source user and content. Messages sent in message format may be packetized to send across a network they may include files and or links to files and or may be encrypted or otherwise secured before being sent.

Content is the content of the message. Content may not necessarily have a particular format e.g. it is free text may include links to or copies of files and may not necessarily be in the same format as the information about the type of message sender and receiver of the messages. Content may be the content of an inter social network direct message a post on a wall a message accompanying a friend request a message accompanying a follow request or the content of an instant message depending on the type of message being sent.

The target social network is the social network to which the message is being sent. The target social network may be a social network that has agreed to be involved in the cooperation protocol and may be a member of a group of social networks that agree to allow users to send inter social network messages and exchange other information as well.

The source social network is the social network from which the message is being sent. The source social network is the social network that the message is coming from or the network that the source user is using when the message is sent. The source social network agrees to be involved in the inter social network protocol and implements the protocol .

The type of message is an indication of the type of message being sent. For example type of message may be an indication that the message is an inter social network direct message inter social network instant message an inter social network post on a wall an inter social network request for the sender to follow the recipient an inter social network request by the sender to friend the recipient. As an example the indication may be an arbitrary alpha numerical designation e.g. 1 may represent a wall post 2 may represent a friend request or may be a text label. As another example wall or wall post may indicate that the message is a wall post and e mail may represent an inter social network e mail message etc.

Target user is the user that is the intended recipient of the message i.e. the user to whom the message is sent . The target user may be a member of the target social network.

The source user is the user that is sending the message. The source user belongs to the source social network indicated in source network and may use the source social network to send a message to a target user in a separate network. For example the source user may be logged onto Chatter the source social network and may send a message to a target user that is logged onto Facebook the target social network .

In one implementation a user may need to complete a basic registration process or follow a single sign on process in order to access a different social network.

The algorithm includes the steps necessary to implement the agreed to protocol. illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of algorithm that might be used in the inter social network protocols described herein.

The algorithm includes the steps necessary to implement the agreed to protocol. illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of algorithm that might be used in the inter social network protocols described herein. The algorithm may include a spam filter to identify and filter out spam messages.

The algorithm may include a user validation that identifies the user checks to see if the user is a member of the social network and if the user is a member allows the message to be sent. The user validation may block a message or a user if either is determined not to be authentic or if the source network system is determined not to be a member of the group of social network that agreed to allow inter social network communications.

Spam filter is an algorithm that identifies messages that are suspected to be unwanted by the user. User validation checks whether the user is a valid user that is a member of the social network indicated as the target social network.

Network validation checks whether the social network is a valid social network such as whether the social network is a member of a group of social networks that agree to accept inter social network communications from one another. In one implementation for security purposes the social network field is hashed or encrypted to avoid spoofing. Network validation may identify whether the network is a part of the circle of social networks signed up for the protocol that have agreed to the protocol. The network validation may respond by blocking an inter social network communication. Alternatively spam filter may block the communication based at least in part on results of user validation and network validation .

Viewer may allow the user to view another user s profiles and or walls despite the user whose profile and or wall is being viewed is a member of a different social network than the user viewing the profile and or the wall.

Compose send message may allow a user on one social network to compose a message and send the message to a user on another social network via the two social networks. Compose send message may take information from a message that is formatted for one social network and place the information into the agreed upon format as determined by protocol so that the message may be sent to another social network. Compose send message may allow a user to compose send messages from any social network that agrees to allow inter social network communications that may be read by any social network that agrees to allow inter social network communications .

Message interpreter may interpret messages from other social networks. Message interpreter may take information received at one social network from another social network that is in the format of protocol . The information retrieved from the format of the protocol via message interpreter may be placed into a format that messages are sent stored viewed within the social network that received the message.

Profile creator may create a profile in the present social network for a user associated with another social network. External network connections creator may establish connections to someone in another social network.

User accounts are a collection of user accounts including each user that registers with the repository. Repository addresses are the addresses at the repository of the users associated with user accounts . Someone that wants to send a message to a particular user sends the message to the repository address of the user and the repository forwards the message to each alias of the user. User information is information about each of the users associated with user accounts respectively needed for setting up the account. Lists of aliases are the lists of the aliases associated with the users of each of the user accounts respectively Aliases are the aliases of the users of user accounts . Specifically aliases are the aliases of the user associated with user account aliases are the aliases of the user of user account and aliases are the aliases of the user of user account despite the usage of the letter n to represent the number of aliases of each user each user may have a different number of aliases . When a message is received at the repository address of the user repository forwards the message to each alias of the user.

Initial registration edits aliases and forward messages are algorithms or routines that are associated with central repository which may run on the machine of a social network . Initial registration when implemented by the user registers the user with central repository and may set up an initial list of aliases for the user. Edit aliases when implemented by the user edits the list of aliases of the user. Edit aliases may be used to add remove of change one or more aliases. Forward messages forwards messages received to each of the aliases of the user. When a message is received at the repository address of the user forward messages forwards the message to each alias of the user.

Output system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of a monitor system a handheld display system a printer system a speaker system a connection or interface system to a sound system an interface system to peripheral devices and or a connection and or interface system to a computer system intranet and or internet for example.

Input system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of a keyboard system a mouse system a track ball system a track pad system buttons on a handheld system a scanner system a microphone system a connection to a sound system and or a connection and or interface system to a computer system intranet and or internet e.g. IrDA USB for example.

Memory system may include for example any one of some of any combination of or all of a long term storage system such as a hard drive a short term storage system such as random access memory a removable storage system such as a floppy drive or a removable drive and or flash memory. Memory system may include one or more machine readable mediums that may store a variety of different types of information. The term machine readable medium is used to refer to any non transient medium capable carrying information that is readable by a machine. One example of a machine readable medium is a non transient computer readable medium. Another example of a machine readable medium is paper having holes that are detected that trigger different mechanical electrical and or logic responses. Memory system may store software and or templates for performing tasks related to social networks. For example memory system may store an intra social network email application. A storage areas for storing information related to individual accounts such as a list friends or connections. Memory system may include software for handling communications related to walls such as for posting messages on walls checking if a wall is public etc. Memory system may include social network memory which may store protocol or algorithm and the social network features of for example. Memory may store computer instructions for implementing a web server a database server and or the methods of .

Processor system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of multiple parallel processors a single processor a system of processors having one or more central processors and or one or more specialized processors dedicated to specific tasks. Processor system carries out the machine instructions stored in memory system .

Communications system communicatively links output system input system memory system processor system and or input output system to each other. Communications system may include any one of some of any combination of or all of electrical cables fiber optic cables and or means of sending signals through air or water e.g. wireless communications or the like. Some examples of means of sending signals through air and or water include systems for transmitting electromagnetic waves such as infrared and or radio waves and or systems for sending sound waves.

Input output system may include devices that have the dual function as input and output devices. For example input output system may include one or more may include one or more ports that are used as both sending and receiving signals. Input output system is optional and may be used in addition to or in place of output system and or input device .

Environment is an environment in which an on demand database service exists. User system may be any machine or system that is used by a user to access a database user system. For example any of user systems can be a handheld computing device a mobile phone a laptop computer a work station and or a network of computing devices. As illustrated in and in more detail in user systems might interact via a network with an on demand database service which is system .

An on demand database service such as system is a database system that is made available to outside users that do not need to necessarily be concerned with building and or maintaining the database system but instead may be available for their use when the users need the database system e.g. on the demand of the users . Some on demand database services may store information from one or more tenants stored into tables of a common database image to form a multi tenant database system MTS . Accordingly on demand database service and system will be used interchangeably herein. A database image may include one or more database objects. A relational database management system RDMS or the equivalent may execute storage and retrieval of information against the database object s . Application platform may be a framework that allows the applications of system to run such as the hardware and or software e.g. the operating system. In an embodiment on demand database service may include an application platform that enables creation managing and executing one or more applications developed by the provider of the on demand database service users accessing the on demand database service via user systems or third party application developers accessing the on demand database service via user systems .

The users of user systems may differ in their respective capacities and the capacity of a particular user system might be entirely determined by permissions permission levels for the current user. For example where a salesperson is using a particular user system to interact with system that user system has the capacities allotted to that salesperson. However while an administrator is using that user system to interact with system that user system has the capacities allotted to that administrator. In systems with a hierarchical role model users at one permission level may have access to applications data and database information accessible by a lower permission level user but may not have access to certain applications database information and data accessible by a user at a higher permission level. Thus different users will have different capabilities with regard to accessing and modifying application and database information depending on a user s security or permission level.

Network is any network or combination of networks of devices that communicate with one another. For example network can be any one or any combination of a LAN local area network WAN wide area network telephone network wireless network point to point network star network token ring network hub network or other appropriate configuration. As the most common type of computer network in current use is a TCP IP Transfer Control Protocol and Internet Protocol network such as the global internetwork of networks often referred to as the Internet with a capital I that network will be used in many of the examples herein. However it should be understood that the networks that the one or more implementations might use are not so limited although TCP IP is a frequently implemented protocol.

User systems might communicate with system using TCP IP and at a higher network level use other common Internet protocols to communicate such as HTTP FTP AFS WAP etc. In an example where HTTP is used user system might include an HTTP client commonly referred to as a browser for sending and receiving HTTP messages to and from an HTTP server at system . Such an HTTP server might be implemented as the sole network interface between system and network but other techniques might be used as well or instead. In some implementations the interface between system and network includes load sharing functionality such as round robin HTTP request distributors to balance loads and distribute incoming HTTP requests evenly over a plurality of servers. At least as for the users that are accessing that server each of the plurality of servers has access to the MTS data however other alternative configurations may be used instead.

In one embodiment system shown in implements a web based customer relationship management CRM system. For example in one embodiment system includes application servers configured to implement and execute CRM software applications as well as provide related data code forms webpages and other information to and from user systems and to store to and retrieve from a database system related data objects and Webpage content. With a multi tenant system data for multiple tenants may be stored in the same physical database object however tenant data typically is arranged so that data of one tenant is kept logically separate from that of other tenants so that one tenant does not have access to another tenant s data unless such data is expressly shared. In at least one embodiment system implements applications other than or in addition to a CRM application. For example system may provide tenant access to multiple hosted standard and custom applications including a CRM application. User or third party developer applications which may or may not include CRM may be supported by the application platform which manages creation storage of the applications into one or more database objects and executing of the applications in a virtual machine in the process space of the system .

One arrangement for elements of system is shown in including a network interface application platform tenant data storage for tenant data system data storage for system data accessible to system and possibly multiple tenants program code for implementing various functions of system and a process space for executing MTS system processes and tenant specific processes such as running applications as part of an application hosting service. Additional processes that may execute on system include database indexing processes.

Several elements in the system shown in include conventional well known elements that are explained only briefly here. For example each user system could include a desktop personal computer workstation laptop PDA cell phone or any wireless access protocol WAP enabled device or any other computing device capable of interfacing directly or indirectly to the Internet or other network connection. User system typically runs an HTTP client e.g. a browsing program such as Microsoft s Internet Explorer browser Netscape s Navigator browser Opera s browser or a WAP enabled browser in the case of a cell phone PDA or other wireless device or the like allowing a user e.g. subscriber of the multi tenant database system of user system to access process and view information pages and applications available to it from system over network . Each user system also typically includes one or more user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse trackball touch pad touch screen pen or the like for interacting with a graphical user interface GUI provided by the browser on a display e.g. a monitor screen LCD display etc. in conjunction with pages forms applications and other information provided by system or other systems or servers. For example the user interface device can be used to access data and applications hosted by system and to perform searches on stored data and otherwise allow a user to interact with various GUI pages that may be presented to a user. As discussed above embodiments are suitable for use with the Internet which refers to a specific global internetwork of networks. However it should be understood that other networks can be used instead of the Internet such as an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a non TCP IP based network any LAN or WAN or the like.

According to one embodiment each user system and all of its components are operator configurable using applications such as a browser including computer code run using a central processing unit such as an Intel Pentium processor or the like. Similarly system and additional instances of an MTS where more than one is present and all of their components might be operator configurable using application s including computer code to run using a central processing unit such as processor system which may include an Intel Pentium processor or the like and or multiple processor units. A computer program product embodiment includes a machine readable storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a computer to perform any of the processes of the embodiments described herein. Computer code for operating and configuring system to intercommunicate and to process webpages applications and other data and media content as described herein are preferably downloaded and stored on a hard disk but the entire program code or portions thereof may also be stored in any other volatile or non volatile memory medium or device as is well known such as a ROM or RAM or provided on any media capable of storing program code such as any type of rotating media including floppy disks optical discs digital versatile disk DVD compact disk CD microdrive and magneto optical disks and magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data. Additionally the entire program code or portions thereof may be transmitted and downloaded from a software source over a transmission medium e.g. over the Internet or from another server as is well known or transmitted over any other conventional network connection as is well known e.g. extranet VPN LAN etc. using any communication medium and protocols e.g. TCP IP HTTP HTTPS Ethernet etc. as are well known. It will also be appreciated that computer code for implementing embodiments can be implemented in any programming language that can be executed on a client system and or server or server system such as for example C C HTML any other markup language Java JavaScript ActiveX any other scripting language such as VBScript and many other programming languages as are well known may be used. Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. .

According to one embodiment each system is configured to provide webpages forms applications data and media content to user client systems to support the access by user systems as tenants of system . As such system provides security mechanisms to keep each tenant s data separate unless the data is shared. If more than one MTS is used they may be located in close proximity to one another e.g. in a server farm located in a single building or campus or they may be distributed at locations remote from one another e.g. one or more servers located in city A and one or more servers located in city B . As used herein each MTS could include one or more logically and or physically connected servers distributed locally or across one or more geographic locations. Additionally the term server is meant to include a computer system including processing hardware and process space s and an associated storage system and database application e.g. OODBMS or RDBMS as is well known in the art. It should also be understood that server system and server are often used interchangeably herein. Similarly the database object described herein can be implemented as single databases a distributed database a collection of distributed databases a database with redundant online or offline backups or other redundancies etc. and might include a distributed database or storage network and associated processing intelligence.

User system network system tenant data storage and system data storage were discussed above in . Regarding user system processor system A may be any combination of one or more processors. Memory system B may be any combination of one or more memory devices short term and or long term memory. Input system C may be any combination of input devices such as one or more keyboards mice trackballs scanners cameras and or interfaces to networks. Output system D may be any combination of output devices such as one or more monitors printers and or interfaces to networks. As shown by system may include a network interface of implemented as a set of HTTP application servers an application platform tenant data storage and system data storage . Also shown is system process space including individual tenant process spaces and a tenant management process space . Each application server may be configured to tenant data storage and the tenant data therein and system data storage and the system data therein to serve requests of user systems . The tenant data might be divided into individual tenant storage areas which can be either a physical arrangement and or a logical arrangement of data. Within each tenant storage area user storage and application metadata might be similarly allocated for each user. For example a copy of a user s most recently used MRU items might be stored to user storage . Similarly a copy of MRU items for an entire organization that is a tenant might be stored to tenant storage area . A UI provides a user interface and an API provides an application programmer interface to system resident processes to users and or developers at user systems . The tenant data and the system data may be stored in various databases such as one or more Oracle databases.

Application platform includes an application setup mechanism that supports application developers creation and management of applications which may be saved as metadata into tenant data storage by save routines for execution by subscribers as one or more tenant process spaces managed by tenant management process for example. Invocations to such applications may be coded using PL SOQL that provides a programming language style interface extension to API . A detailed description of some PL SOQL language embodiments is discussed in commonly owned co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 828 192 entitled PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EXTENDING APIS TO EXECUTE IN CONJUNCTION WITH DATABASE APIS by Craig Weissman filed Oct. 4 2006 which is incorporated in its entirety herein for all purposes. Invocations to applications may be detected by one or more system processes which manages retrieving application metadata for the subscriber making the invocation and executing the metadata as an application in a virtual machine.

Each application server may be communicably coupled to database systems e.g. having access to system data and tenant data via a different network connection. For example one application server might be coupled via the network e.g. the Internet another application server might be coupled via a direct network link and another application server might be coupled by yet a different network connection. Transfer Control Protocol and Internet Protocol TCP IP are typical protocols for communicating between application servers and the database system. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that other transport protocols may be used to optimize the system depending on the network interconnect used.

In at least one embodiment each application server is configured to handle requests for any user associated with any organization that is a tenant. Because it is desirable to be able to add and remove application servers from the server pool at any time for any reason there is preferably no server affinity for a user and or organization to a specific application server . In one embodiment therefore an interface system implementing a load balancing function e.g. an F5 Big IP load balancer is communicably coupled between the application servers and the user systems to distribute requests to the application servers . In one embodiment the load balancer uses a least connections algorithm to route user requests to the application servers . Other examples of load balancing algorithms such as round robin and observed response time also can be used. For example in at least one embodiment three consecutive requests from the same user could hit three different application servers and three requests from different users could hit the same application server . In this manner system is multi tenant wherein system handles storage of and access to different objects data and applications across disparate users and organizations.

As an example of storage one tenant might be a company that employs a sales force where each salesperson uses system to manage their sales process. Thus a user might maintain contact data leads data customer follow up data performance data goals and progress data etc. all applicable to that user s personal sales process e.g. in tenant data storage . In an example of a MTS arrangement since all of the data and the applications to access view modify report transmit calculate etc. can be maintained and accessed by a user system having nothing more than network access the user can manage his or her sales efforts and cycles from any of many different user systems. For example if a salesperson is visiting a customer and the customer has Internet access in their lobby the salesperson can obtain critical updates as to that customer while waiting for the customer to arrive in the lobby.

While each user s data might be separate from other users data regardless of the employers of each user some data might be organization wide data shared or accessible by a plurality of users or all of the users for a given organization that is a tenant. Thus there might be some data structures managed by system that are allocated at the tenant level while other data structures might be managed at the user level. Because an MTS might support multiple tenants including possible competitors the MTS should have security protocols that keep data applications and application use separate. Also because many tenants may opt for access to an MTS rather than maintain their own system redundancy up time and backup are additional functions that may be implemented in the MTS. In addition to user specific data and tenant specific data system might also maintain system level data usable by multiple tenants or other data. Such system level data might include industry reports news postings and the like that are sharable among tenants.

In at least one embodiment user systems which may be client systems communicate with application servers to request and update system level and tenant level data from system that may require sending one or more queries to tenant data storage and or system data storage . System e.g. an application server in system automatically generates one or more SQL statements e.g. one or more SQL queries that are designed to access the desired information. System data storage may generate query plans to access the requested data from the database.

Each database can generally be viewed as a collection of objects such as a set of logical tables containing data fitted into predefined categories. A table is one representation of a data object and may be used herein to simplify the conceptual description of objects and custom objects. It should be understood that table and object may be used interchangeably herein. Each table generally contains one or more data categories logically arranged as columns or fields in a viewable schema. Each row or record of a table contains an instance of data for each category defined by the fields. For example a CRM database may include a table that describes a customer with fields for basic contact information such as name address phone number fax number etc. Another table might describe a purchase order including fields for information such as customer product sale price date etc. In some multi tenant database systems standard entity tables might be provided for use by all tenants. For CRM database applications such standard entities might include tables for Account Contact Lead and Opportunity data each containing pre defined fields. It should be understood that the word entity may also be used interchangeably herein with object and table .

In some multi tenant database systems tenants may be allowed to create and store custom objects or tenants may be allowed to customize standard entities or objects for example by creating custom fields for standard objects including custom index fields. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 817 161 filed Apr. 2 2004 entitled Custom Entities and Fields in a Multi Tenant Database System and which is hereby incorporated herein by reference teaches systems and methods for creating custom objects as well as customizing standard objects in a multi tenant database system. In at least one embodiment for example all custom entity data rows are stored in a single multi tenant physical table which may contain multiple logical tables per organization. It may be transparent to customers that their multiple tables are in fact stored in one large table or that their data may be stored in the same table as the data of other customers.

In step system is assembled which may include communicatively coupling one or more processors one or more memory devices one or more input devices e.g. one or more mice keyboards and or scanners one or more output devices e.g. one more printers one or more interfaces to networks and or one or more monitors to one another. Additionally assembling system may include installing application platform network interface tenant data storage system data storage system data program code process space UI API PL SOQL save routine application setup mechanism applications servers system process space tenant process spaces tenant management process space tenant space tenant data and application metadata .

In step user system is communicatively coupled to network . In step system is communicatively coupled to network allowing user system and system to communicate with one another . In step one or more instructions may be installed in system e.g. the instructions may be installed on one or more machine readable media such as computer readable media therein and or system is otherwise configured for performing the steps of methods associated with . In an embodiment each of the steps of method is a distinct step. In another embodiment although depicted as distinct steps in steps may not be distinct steps. In other embodiments method may not have all of the above steps and or may have other steps in addition to or instead of those listed above. The steps of method may be performed in another order. Subsets of the steps listed above as part of method may be used to form their own method.

Each embodiment disclosed herein may be used or otherwise combined with any of the other embodiments disclosed. Any element of any embodiment may be used in any embodiment.

While the invention has been described by way of example and in terms of the specific embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. To the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore the scope of the appended claims should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements.

