---

title: System and method for recording voicemail
abstract: A system and method for recording voicemail. The system includes a first phone, a second phone, and a server. A call is placed from the first phone to the second phone. The server is configured to transmit a notification to the first phone to initiate recording of a voicemail at a location local to the first phone, receive a file of the voicemail recorded by the first phone, store the recorded voicemail, and establish a session between the server and the second phone to access the recorded voicemail.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08488752&OS=08488752&RS=08488752
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08488752
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
One of the primary objectives when establishing a telephone call connection with another person is to communicate information to the other person. However the other person may not be available when an incoming call is received and therefore does not answer the call. In such situations the caller can leave a voicemail for the other person to retrieve at a later time.

One problem with the conventional system for recording voicemail is that the audio quality of the voicemail is poor. As described the voicemail is recorded over the telephony network which introduces noise and artifacts into the recorded audio. The noise and artifacts can severely degrade the audio quality of the voicemail making the voicemail difficult to understand for the recipient.

Accordingly there remains a need for a system and method for recording voicemail that overcomes the audio quality problems described above.

One embodiment provides a method for recording voicemail. The method includes receiving a call placed over a telephony network from a first phone number to a second phone number wherein the first phone number is associated with a first client device capable of recording voicemail files at the first client device transmitting a notification to the first client device associated with the first phone number to initiate recording of a voicemail at a location local to the first client device wherein the notification is transmitted over a data network receiving over the data network the recorded voicemail terminating the call placed over the telephony network storing the recorded voicemail and establishing a session with a second client device associated with the second phone number so as to allow the second client device to access the recorded voicemail.

Another embodiment includes a method for recording voicemail. The method includes placing a call from a first phone number to a second phone number receiving a notification to initiate local recording of a voicemail recording a voicemail file compressing the recorded voicemail file and transmitting the recorded and compressed voicemail file to be stored in a server.

Yet another embodiment includes a system for recording voicemail. The system includes a first phone a second phone wherein a call is placed from the first phone to the second phone and a server configured to transmit a notification to the first phone to initiate recording of a voicemail at a location local to the first phone receive a file of the voicemail recorded by the first phone store the recorded voicemail and establish a session between the server and the second phone to access the recorded voicemail.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide a system and method for recording voicemails at a device of a caller and uploading the recorded voicemail to a server via a data link of the device. A first user using a device places a call to a second user. When the second user fails to answer the call the call is passed to a voicemail processing engine which can be implemented via an IVR interactive voice response system. The IVR system is configured to interact with a server for example an API Application Programming Interface server that sends a notification to the first user s device. The notification prompts the first user as to whether the first user would prefer to record the voicemail over the telephony network i.e. the standard technique for recording voicemails or locally on the first user s device. If the first user chooses to record the voicemail locally then the call is effectively and or actually terminated between the first phone and the IVR. A software application on the first user s phone is then configured to record the audio of the voicemail. The software application can be implemented in the OS operating system of the device in a separate application installed on the device and or as part of the telephony software package of the device.

The locally recorded voicemail is uploaded as an audio file to a voicemail server via a data network i.e. not via the telephony network and or the API server. The voicemail file can be stored in an electronic voicemail system that can provide visual voicemail and or to a standard telephony voicemail server that is accessible by the recipient user over the telephony network. In some embodiments the voicemail file is compressed before being uploaded to the voicemail server.

In this manner the voicemail is recorded without passing through the telephony network. Advantageously the audio quality of recorded voicemails is significantly improved.

The client device includes application s a communications client output devices e.g. a display and input devices e.g. keyboard mouse touch screen . In some embodiments a client device may act as both an output device and an input device.

The call is routed through the telephony network to a YATE Yet Another Telephony Engine which facilitates and manages various call functions. For example the YATE can pass the call to an IVR Interactive Voice Response system that is configured to prompt the caller for various information. For example the IVR system can prompt the caller to record a voicemail.

The IVR system is in data communication with a server for example an API Application Programming Interface server . The IVR system and or the API server are configured to determine whether the client device is capable of local recording of voicemail. If the IVR system and or the API server determine that the client device is not capable of local recording of voicemail then voicemail is recorded over the telephony network as in conventional voicemail recording systems.

If the IVR system and or the API server determine that the client device is capable of local recording of voicemail then the API server sends a notification to the client device via a data network . In one embodiment the data network is separate and distinct from the telephony network . In some embodiments such as in VoIP calls the telephony network and the data network are the same network. The data network can be any type of communications network including an Internet network e.g. wide area network WAN or local area network LAN wired or wireless network or mobile phone data network among others.

The notification sent from the API server is received by a local recording software application executing on the client device . According to various embodiments the local recording software application can be implemented in the OS operating system of the client device as a stand alone application installed on the client device and or within phone audio software of the client device .

When the local recording software application receives the notification the local recording software application prompts the user of the client device as to whether the user would prefer to record a voicemail locally. The prompt may be audible via speakers of the client device and or visual via a display of the client device . If the user declines the prompt then the voicemail is recorded in the conventional manner over the telephony network .

If the user accepts the prompt to record the voicemail locally then the local recording software application initiates local recording of the voicemail. The local recording is performed by the client device via a microphone included in or attached to the client device . The recorded audio is stored as an audio file in a storage unit included in the client device . In some embodiments the audio file is compressed on the client device .

The recorded and optionally compressed voicemail file is then uploaded over the data network to the API server . The API server forwards the recorded voicemail file to a voicemail server for storage. According to one embodiment the voicemail server comprises an electronic voicemail server that provides recorded voicemail files to the recipient device as electronic files playable on the recipient device. In another embodiment the voicemail server comprises a telephony voicemail server to which the recipient can call in to hear the voicemail.

In some embodiments the API server and the voicemail server comprise the same server. According to various embodiments the API server and or the voicemail server can be physically separate machines or can be different processes running within the same physical machine. In some embodiments the user may set various privacy controls related to the storage of the recorded voicemails on the voicemail server . Examples include anonymization of device identifiers and or ability for a user to modify or delete information related to the user s use of the voicemail recording service.

Also as shown in the IVR system does not directly communicate with the voicemail server . Instead the interaction is mediated by the API server . Such a configuration is different from conventional techniques where an IVR system is in direct communication with a voicemail server as shown in .

A transcription service not shown can transcribe the recorded voicemail file stored in the voicemail server and provide a text based transcription of the voicemail to the recipient device.

As illustrated processor s are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within client device . For example processor s execute instructions stored in memory or instructions stored on storage devices . Memory which may be a non transient computer readable storage medium is configured to store information within client device during operation. In some embodiments memory includes a temporary memory area for information not to be maintained when the client device is turned OFF. Examples of such temporary memory include volatile memories such as random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM and static random access memories SRAM . Memory maintains program instructions for execution by the processor s .

Storage devices also include one or more non transient computer readable storage media. Storage devices are generally configured to store larger amounts of information than memory . Storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Non limiting examples of non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard disks optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable EEPROM memories.

The client device uses network interface to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such telephony network and or data network shown in . Network interface may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other non limiting examples of network interfaces include wireless network interface Bluetooth G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices and USB Universal Serial Bus . In some embodiments the client device uses network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as the YATE a mobile phone of another or other networked computing device.

The client device includes one or more input devices . Input devices are configured to receive input from a user through tactile audio video or other sensing feedback. Non limiting examples of input device include a presence sensitive screen a mouse a keyboard a voice responsive system camera a video recorder a microphone a GPS module or any other type of device for detecting a command from a user or sensing the environment. In some examples a presence sensitive screen includes a touch sensitive screen.

One or more output devices are also included in client device . Output devices are configured to provide output to a user using tactile audio and or video stimuli. Output devices may include a display screen part of the presence sensitive screen a sound card a video graphics adapter card or any other type of device for converting a signal into an appropriate form understandable to humans or machines. Additional examples of output device include a speaker a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a liquid crystal display LCD or any other type of device that can generate intelligible output to a user. In some embodiments a device may act as both an input device and an output device.

The client device includes one or more power sources to provide power to the client device . Non limiting examples of power source include single use power sources rechargeable power sources and or power sources developed from nickel cadmium lithium ion or other suitable material.

The client device includes an operating system such as the Android operating system. The operating system controls operations of the components of the client device . For example the operating system facilitates the interaction of communications client with processors memory network interface storage device s input device output device and power source .

As also illustrated in the client device includes communications client . Communications client includes communications module . Each of communications client and communications module includes program instructions and or data that are executable by the client device . For example in one embodiment communications module includes instructions causing the communications client executing on the client device to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure. In some embodiments communications client and or communications module form a part of operating system executing on the client device .

The storage device includes non volatile storage where digital content and information can be stored on the client device . In one embodiment the storage device may store locally recorded voicemail files .

The client device can be manipulated by a user to initiate a telephone call between the client device and a recipient device. In one embodiment the phone call is initiated by the user dialing the phone number manually or selecting the phone number from a contact list. In other embodiments the call can be initiated through one of the installed applications after the user has authenticated with the installed application. In yet another embodiment the call may be initiated after the user selects an advertisement presented to the user on a display device of the client device i.e. a click to call ad .

After the telephone call connection has been established and the recipient user does not answer the call the client device enters into a communication session with an IVR system configured to prompt the user to record a voicemail. As described above the IVR system interacts with an API server to send a notification to the client device . The notification is received by a local recording software application configured to query the user of the client device as to whether the call should be recorded locally. According to various embodiments the local recording software application can be located within the operating system within an installed application and or the phone audio software .

If the user chooses to record the voicemail locally the audio is recorded by the microphone included in the I O modules of the client device . The recording is stored as a voicemail file in the storage device . The voicemail file is then uploaded to the API server via the data communication module and the cellular network module .

As shown in the embodiment in each of the installed applications the operating system and the phone audio software are shown as separate software applications. In other embodiments the functionality of the installed applications the operating system and the phone audio software can be combined into a single software application e.g. mobile phone app . In still further embodiments the functionality of the installed applications and the phone audio software may be included in the operating system of the client device .

As shown the method begins at stage where a client device places a call from a first phone number to a second phone number. In one example the client device is a mobile phone with computing capabilities. After some amount of time has passed the recipient of the call at the second phone number does not answer the call.

At stage the client device receives a notification to initiate local recording of a voicemail. As described above when the call is not answered at the second phone number an IVR system is configured to interact with an API server to send a notification to the client device of the caller.

At stage the client device prompts the user as to whether the user would prefer to record the call locally. If the user does not prefer to record the call locally then the method proceeds to stage where the voicemail is recorded over the telephony network.

If at stage the user prefers to record the call locally then the method proceeds to stage . At stage the client device records the voicemail locally at the client device. As described a microphone included in or attached to the client device is configured to record the audio of the voicemail. In one embodiment after the user chooses to record the voicemail locally the telephony call between the client device and the IVR is terminated.

At stage the client device compresses the recorded voicemail. According to various embodiments the compression can use mp3 MPEG Audio Layer III compression Ogg Vorbis compression or any other codec for compression. Compressing the voicemail may decrease the filesize of the audio file for transmission. In some embodiments stage is optional and is omitted.

At stage the client device transmits the recorded and optionally compressed voicemail file to be stored in a server. The transmission of the voicemail file occurs over a data network that may be separate and distinct from the telephony network. The recipient of the voicemail is able to access the recorded voicemail from the server.

In some embodiment the user of the caller device is prompted with an option to review the recorded voicemail. The caller can confirm the voicemail is OK or may re record a new voicemail.

Also in some embodiments transmission of the recorded voicemail to the API server may be delayed for a predetermined amount of time. During the delay period for example five minutes the caller may choose to cancel transmission of the recorded voicemail. If the caller chooses to cancel the transmission of the voicemail within the predetermined amount of time then the voicemail file cannot be retrieved by the recipient since the voicemail is not stored on the voicemail server.

Still further in some situations the data network may not be available. In some embodiments the local recording software application is configured to queue transmission of the recorded voicemail file to the API server when and if the data network becomes available.

As shown the method begins at stage where an IVR system receives a call placed from a first phone number to a second phone number. At stage the IVR system determines whether a phone associated with the first phone number is capable of local recording of voicemail. In some embodiments a listing of users and or devices and or phone numbers that are capable of local recording of voicemails may be stored in a database and accessible by the IVR system.

If the IVR system determines that the phone associated with the first phone number is not capable of local recording of voicemail then the method proceeds to stage where the IVR records the voicemail over the telephony network.

If at stage the IVR system determines that the phone associated with the first phone number is capable of local recording of voicemail then the method proceeds to stage . At stage a server for example an API server transmits a notification to the phone associated with the first phone number to initiate local recording of a voicemail. As described the IVR system is in data communication with an API server. In some embodiments the IVR system and the API server comprise the same logical server device. As described in in response to receiving the notification the phone prompts the caller as to whether the voicemail should be recorded locally at the phone.

At stage the API server receives the recorded voicemail file over a data network. As described in the voicemail may have been compressed by the phone prior to the phone transmitting the voicemail to the API server. At stage the API server stores the recorded and optionally compressed voicemail file in a voicemail server. The voicemail file is stored in an electronic voicemail server i.e. the voicemail is accessible as a file transmitted to the recipient device and or a telephony voicemail server i.e. the voicemail is accessibly by the recipient who calls in to the voicemail server . The recipient of the voicemail is able to access the recorded voicemail from the voicemail server.

The local recording software application is configured to receive a notification from an API server as to whether the caller would prefer to record a voicemail locally at the phone or over the telephony network. In response to the notification the local recording software application causes an audible and or visual prompt to be presented to the caller. The audible prompt is presented to the caller through the one or more speakers . The visual prompt is displayed on the user interface .

In the example shown in prompt is displayed in the user interface . The user can confirm that the voicemail should be recorded locally by selecting button or may cancel local recording and record the voicemail over the telephony network by selecting button .

Advantageously embodiments of the invention provide a system and method for local recording of voicemail files. Since the recording is not performed over the noisy telephony network the audio quality of recorded voicemails is significantly improved.

For situations in which the systems discussed here collect personal information about users or may make use of personal information the users may be provided with an opportunity to control whether programs or features collect personal information e.g. information about a user s social network social actions or activities profession a user s preferences or a user s current location or to control whether and or how to retrieve content i.e. recorded voicemails from a content server i.e. a voicemail server . In addition certain data may be anonymized in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identity may be anonymized so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location may be generalized where location information is obtained such as for example to a city ZIP code or state level so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user may have control over how information is collected about him or her and used by the systems discussed herein.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and at least one and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of the term at least one followed by a list of one or more items for example at least one of A and B is to be construed to mean one item selected from the listed items A or B or any combination of two or more of the listed items A and B unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

