---

title: Method and apparatus for LED transition from physical to virtual space
abstract: An electronic device comprising a touchscreen and an LED may be operable to illuminate the LED in response to an event occurring on the electronic device. In response to an input from a user of the electronic device, the electronic device may display on the touchscreen an animation of a graphical representation of the LED moving onto the touchscreen to a target location on the touchscreen. During the animation, the graphical representation of the LED may be the only thing displayed on the touchscreen. The graphical representation of the LED may be the same color as the LED. A color of the LED may correspond to a contact stored on the phone that is associated with the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08339377&OS=08339377&RS=08339377
owner: 
number: 08339377
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120518
---
Certain embodiments of the present method and apparatus relate to electronic devices. More specifically certain embodiments relate to LED transitions from physical to virtual space.

User notifications on conventional electronic devices can be too user intensive and consume too much power. Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present disclosure as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for LED transition from physical to virtual space substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present disclosure as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms block and module refer to functions than can be performed by one or more circuits. As utilized herein the term exemplary means serving as a non limiting example instance or illustration. As utilized herein the term e.g. introduces a list of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations.

The main processor module may be operable to process data and or control and or manage operations of the electronic device and or tasks and or applications performed therein. In this regard the main processor may be operable to configure and or control operations of various components and or subsystems of the electronic device by utilizing for example one or more control signals. The main processor may enable execution of applications programs and or code which may be for example stored in the system memory .

The system memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may enable volatile and or non volatile storage buffering and or fetching of data code and or other information which may be used consumed and or processed. In this regard the system memory may comprise different memory technologies including for example read only memory ROM random access memory RAM Flash memory solid state drive SSD and or field programmable gate array FPGA . The system memory may store for example configuration data program code and or run time data.

The wired FE may be operable to perform various functions for wireline communication over supported physical wired media in accordance with one or more wireline protocols e.g. Ethernet and or USB . Functions performed by the wired FE may include for example amplification frequency conversion filtering digital to analog conversion and or analog to digital conversion.

The wireless FE may be operable to perform various functions for wirelessly communicating via the antennas A N in accordance with one or more wireless protocols e.g. Wi Fi and or cellular . Functions performed by the wireless FE may include for example amplification frequency conversion filtering digital to analog conversion and or analog to digital conversion.

The signal processing module may be operable to process signals transmitted and or received by the electronic device in accordance with one or more wired or wireless protocols. The signal processing module may be operable to perform such signal processing operation as for example filtering encoding decoding encryption decryption and or modulation demodulation.

The input output I O subsystem may enable a user to interact with the electronic device . In this regard the I O subsystem may support various types of inputs and or outputs including video audio and or text. I O devices and or components external or internal may be utilized for inputting and or outputting data during operations of the I O subsystem . The I O subsystem may comprise for example a touchscreen one or more physical hard controls and one or more LEDs .

The touchscreen may comprise for example a liquid crystal display capable of displaying graphical elements that a user can interact with by touching them with a finger or a stylus. The touchscreen may be for example a resistive capacitive surface wave or infrared touchscreen.

The control s may comprise for example a multi function switch or button. For example holding down the button for a longer period of time may power the electronic device on and off whereas short presses of the button may turn the touchscreen on and off.

The LED s may enable the device to visually alert a user of the electronic device without turning on the touchscreen . For example the LED s may comprise one or more light emitting diode LED . In such an embodiment the LED may comprise a plurality of LEDs of one or more colors and or may comprise a multi color LED.

In operation the main processor the system memory and the I O subsystem may interoperate to interface with a user and to send and receive communications via the wired FE and or the wireless FE . For example in response to an event e.g. reception of a communication input from a user an alarm and or a change in status or condition of the electronic device and or one or more of its components the main processor may execute one or more lines of code stored in the memory and generate data to be transmitted via the wireless FE and or presented to a user via the I O subsystem . For example receipt of an email receipt of a voicemail receipt of an SMS or MMS message or occurrence of a calendar reminder may trigger the processor to execute code which implements an algorithm such as the ones described below with respect to .

In step the touchscreen is powered off. This may occur for example as a result of a timeout or a user pressing the button . Powering off the touchscreen may save power and or prevent inadvertent input to the touchscreen e.g. while the electronic device is in the user s pocket . depicts the device with the touchscreen powered off.

In step an event occurs causing the LED to light up. This is depicted in by the notification element transitioning from white to black. The event may be for example a missed call receipt of an email receipt of a voicemail receipt of an SMS or MMS message or a calendar reminder. Illuminating the LED may be a low power way to notify the user of occurrence of the event as compared for example to turning on the touchscreen .

In one embodiment characteristics of the illuminated LED may indicate a contact e.g. name phone number and or email address and or application or operating system OS component associated with the event. The characteristics may include for example color and or intensity of the LED and or the frequency at which the LED blinks. For example a text message from J. Doe may cause the LED to be steady red a missed call from J. Doe may cause the LED to blink red a text message from B. Smith may cause the LED to be steady blue and a missed call from B. Smith may cause the LED to blink blue.

The color associated with a particular contact may be assigned by the user and or may be automatically assigned according to an algorithm implemented by the processor e.g. a contact may be assigned a colors based on frequency of events associated with that contact and or user input such as a priority level of that contact . Where the colors are automatically assigned repeated use of a particular color for a particular contact will enable the user to learn which color is associated with which contact. In this regard the electronic device may be operable to automatically analyze e.g. via main processor communications conducted via the electronic device and may adaptively assign colors to contacts which may be determined to be most important to the user. The analysis and or color to contact assignment may be based on a range of various parameters which may comprise for example frequency of communication known relationships content of previous communications and or times of various communications.

Such adaptive and or automatic analysis the ability to learn the varying degree of importance of existing contacts and or assign color based thereon may be desirable since there is finite number of uniquely recognizable colors and when users have a large number of contacts it would optimal to that the most important contacts be assigned available colors at the expense of less important contacts. Transitioning the LED from physical to virtual space as described below will further solidify this association of color and contact in the user s mind. Accordingly over time a user will come to know which contact and or application OS component has triggered the event simply by looking at the characteristics of the LED .

In step the user presses the button in response to seeing the illuminated LED . In response the processor may execute code stored in the memory which causes the touchscreen to display an animation of a graphical representation of the LED moving onto the touchscreen and to a target location. The target location may be determined based for example on a contact associated with the event an application and or OS component associated with the event user preferences a number of notifications pending and or other suitable considerations. This is depicted in which shows a graphical representation of the LED moving onto the touchscreen at location and moving to target location as represented by the arrow . The physical LED may stay illuminated as the graphical representation of it moves across the touchscreen or may turn off as the graphical representation of the LED moves onto the touchscreen i.e. enters from the edge of the touchscreen to give a visual impression that the LED has physically moved to the target location . Accordingly the graphical representation of the LED may have characteristics e.g. size shape and color of the LED . The graphical representation may also take on different characteristics. For example during and or after moving to the target location the graphical representation of the LED may change characteristics such as size shape color intensity etc. In one embodiment a device may comprise a plurality of screens and the animation may be displayed on one or more of the screens. For example the graphical representation of the LED may traverse a first screen in traveling to a target point on a second screen.

In step other graphical elements may appear e.g. fade in on the touchscreen . Thus in this embodiment no other graphical elements may be displayed on the touchscreen while the animation is in progress i.e. the rest of the screen may remain black during the animation . In another embodiment the other graphical elements may appear perhaps dimly before the animation and the animation may then be overlaid onto the displayed graphical elements. These graphical elements could include icons that launch applications OS components informational elements e.g. gadgets status indicators etc.

In one embodiment the target location may coincide with one of these graphical elements e.g. an application icon that a user may interact with via a finger or stylus gesture. For example the icon which coincides with the target location may be selected and the corresponding application OS component launched by swiping along the path that was traced by the graphical representation of the LED. That is the animation provides a graphical cue of the input that the user should provide in order to act upon the notification e.g. to obtain further details about the event that caused the LED to light up .

Thus in step when the user swipes as indicated by arrow along the path traced by the graphical representation of the LED as shown in the electronic device launches the notifications management application which could be for example an application or OS component screenshot A of the notifications management application is shown in . In one embodiment the notifications management application OS component displays graphical elements next to contacts associated with pending notifications. These graphical elements may be color coded to indicate the color associated with that contact. That is the graphical element A indicates a color associated with J. Doe and the graphical element B indicates a color associated with B. Smith. Thus the color of the LED will be the color of the graphical element A when J. Doe is associated with the event that triggered the LED to light up and the color of the LED will be the color of the graphical element B when B. Smith is associated with the event that triggered the LED to light up.

Although depicts launching a notifications management application component in response to the user tracing the path followed by the graphical representation of the LED other applications could alternatively or additionally be launched. For example if the notification was generated as the result of a received voicemail a voicemail application or OS component may be launched. Furthermore which application and or OS components launches in response to the user input may depend on the number and or type of notifications pending. An example would be as follows. If the only notifications associated with a single application or OS component e.g. email are pending inputting the gesture indicated by the animation may launch that application or OS component. If notifications of more than one type are pending e.g. an email and a voicemail then inputting the gesture indicated by the animation may launch the notifications management application or OS component.

Additionally or alternatively which application and or OS component launches may depend on when the user responds to the notification. In such an implementation the touchscreen may power on and the animation may be displayed upon the event occurring. The touchscreen may then turn off after a timeout. The animation may not be displayed again until after the user presses the button . If the user traces the animation path before the timeout a first application and or OS component may be launched. If the timeout occurs however and the user then presses the button to view the animation a different application and or OS component may be launched. For example the event may be receipt of a text message. If the user input occurs before the timeout the text messaging application may be launched. If the timeout occurs however and the animation is replayed in response a press of button then the user input may cause the notifications management application component to launch.

The steps are substantially similar to the steps and similarly begin with step in which the electronic device is powered on. The corresponding however depict an electronic device which has its LED at the top left rather than bottom center of the touchscreen . Accordingly in step when the user presses the button in response to seeing the illuminated LED the processor may similarly execute code stored in the memory which causes the touchscreen to display an animation of a graphical representation of the LED moving onto the touchscreen and to a target location as depicted by . However as opposed to the embodiment in where the graphical representation moved onto the screen from the location at the bottom center edge of the touchscreen in the LED moves onto the touchscreen from location at the top left edge of the touchscreen . also differs in that the target location differs from the target location . provide just two examples of paths traversed by the graphical representation of the LED. In practice the graphical representation of the LED could move from a LED at any physical location to any target location on the touchscreen . The location of the LED on any particular device may be configured via for example an application programming interface API . The location may be specified for example in screen pixel coordinates.

Thus in step the user drags down the graphical element C as indicated by arrow to launch the notifications management application. In some instances the user may also just interact directly with the application creating the notification such as by responding to a text message for example. Screenshot of the notifications management application OS component is shown in and is substantially similar to the screenshot A described with respect to .

In accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure an electronic device comprising a touchscreen and a light emitting diode LED may be operable to illuminate the LED in response to an event occurring on the electronic device . The electronic device may be operable to display an animation of a graphical representation of the LED e.g. representation or moving onto the touchscreen to a target location e.g. location or on the touchscreen . The electronic device may be operable to detect an input from a user at or proximate e.g. within a threshold number of pixels or threshold number of touch sensors to the target location. In response to the detection of the input from the user the electronic device may be operable to display information pertaining to the event. One or more characteristics of the graphical representation of the LED may indicate a contact associated with the event. Examples of such characteristics of the graphical representation of the LED comprise color of the graphical representation of the LED size of the graphical representation of the LED and shape of the graphical representation of the LED.

In accordance with various aspects of the present method and apparatus an electronic device comprising a touchscreen and a light emitting diode LED may be operable to illuminate the LED in response to an event occurring on the electronic device . In response to an input from a user of the electronic device the electronic device may display on the touchscreen an animation of a graphical representation of the LED moving onto the touchscreen to a target location on the touchscreen . During the animation the graphical representation of the LED may be the only thing displayed on the touchscreen. The electronic device may subsequent to the animation display additional graphical elements e.g. graphic elements A E on the touchscreen while continuing to display the graphical representation of the LED at the target location.

The electronic device may subsequent to the animation display a graphical element e.g. C on the touchscreen that when dragged by a user brings up an application or OS component on the touchscreen . The application or OS component may be a notifications management application component. The target location may be next to an avatar of a contact stored on the electronic device. A path traversed by the graphical representation of the LED during the animation may corresponds to a touchscreen gesture that when performed by a user of the electronic device brings up an application or OS component e.g. notifications management application component on the touchscreen. The graphical representation of the LED may be the same color as the LED. A color of the LED may correspond to a contact stored on the phone that is associated with the event.

Other embodiments of the present method and apparatus may provide a non transitory computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a non transitory machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for LED Transition From Physical to Virtual Space

Accordingly the present method and apparatus may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present method and apparatus may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip.

The present method and apparatus may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present method and apparatus has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and apparatus. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and apparatus not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present method and apparatus will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

