---

title: Algorithm-based anonymous customer references
abstract: A system and methodology that facilitates management and utilization of domain-specific anonymous customer references (ACRs) for protecting subscriber privacy across different domains is disclosed herein. In one aspect, on receiving user authorization, an ACR services (ACRS) component can generate an ACR that is to be inserted in a communication or message transmitted from a user equipment to an untrusted entity. The ACR can be generated based on address data associated with the untrusted entity and/or a unique subscriber identifier associated with the user equipment. As an example, the ACR creation component can generate the ACR based on a cryptographic hash, a static encryption key, and/or a dynamic encryption key. If the ACR is forwarded to a trusted entity, the trusted entity can calculate the unique subscriber identifier based on evaluating the ACR and/or exchange the ACR for the unique subscriber identifier via a secure communication with the ACRS component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450919&OS=09450919&RS=09450919
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09450919
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 445 714 filed on Apr. 12 2012 entitled ANONYMOUS CUSTOMER REFERENCE SERVICES ENABLER and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 482 962 filed on May 29 2012 entitled ANONYMOUS CUSTOMER REFERENCE CLIENT. The entireties of each of the foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to algorithm based anonymous customer references.

Communication devices are seeing an explosive growth in application app development and utilization. The applications or apps can be pre installed on the communication device by a manufacturer and or downloaded by subscribers for example via an over the air OTA communication from a software distribution platform. By way of brief background app developers can create custom applications by utilizing a unique identifier ID specific to a communication device. With communication devices and apps proliferating protecting user privacy with respect to profiling and or tracking a subscriber s behavior across apps and or websites is of continued importance.

The following presents a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate any scope particular embodiments of the specification or any scope of the claims. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The systems and methods disclosed herein in one aspect thereof can reduce and or deter cross domain user activity tracking and or profiling by unauthorized entities e.g. websites systems etc. by utilization of domain specific anonymous customer references ACRs as a device subscriber identifier. In one aspect the disclosed subject matter relates to a system comprising at least one memory that stores computer executable instructions and at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions. Moreover the computer executable instructions on execution receive via a telecommunication network a message transmitted between a user equipment and an untrusted entity subsequent to an authentication of the user equipment to allow the user equipment to connect with the telecommunication network the authentication employing a static identifier associated with the user equipment. Additionally the computer executable instructions on execution assign a domain specific anonymous customer reference to the static identifier insert the domain specific anonymous customer reference into the message and facilitate a transmission of the message including the inserted domain specific anonymous customer reference to the untrusted entity.

Another aspect of the disclosed subject matter relates to a method that includes receiving by a system comprising at least one processor a communication transmitted by a user equipment to an untrusted entity via a wireless communication network and determining by the system a static identifier associated with the user equipment based in part on an authorization of the user equipment with the wireless communication network. Further the method includes based in part on the static identifier automatically generating by the system an anonymous customer reference specific to the untrusted entity. Furthermore the method includes inserting by the system the anonymous customer reference into the communication and facilitating by the system transmission of the communication including the inserted anonymous customer reference to the untrusted entity. Yet another aspect of the disclosed subject matter relates to a computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system including at least one processor to perform operations including receiving via a telecommunication network a message transmitted between a user equipment and an untrusted entity and identifying a static identifier associated with the user equipment based in part on an authorization of the user equipment with the telecommunication network. In addition the operations include based in part on the static identifier automatically generating an anonymous customer reference specific to the untrusted entity inserting the anonymous customer reference into the message and directing the message including the inserted anonymous customer reference to the untrusted entity

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification may be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

One or more embodiments are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It may be evident however that the various embodiments can be practiced without these specific details e.g. without applying to any particular networked environment or standard. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the embodiments in additional detail.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface service platform gateway or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instruction s a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Further the various embodiments can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. An article of manufacture can encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or computer readable storage communications media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the various embodiments.

In addition the words example or exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile device and similar terminology refer to a wired or wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wired or wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Application app developers and other potentially non trusted entities can monitor and or track communication device users through a unique identifier ID e.g. subscriber identifier SubId and or unique device ID UDID related to a subscriber of the communication device creating privacy problems for the users. The systems and methods disclosed herein facilitate generation and utilization of a variable subscriber ID V SubId to prevent or impede profiling and or subscriber behavior tracking by unauthorized applications entities. In one aspect the V SubId masks the subscriber s identity e.g. UDID and or SubId from selected unauthorized websites and or applications that are accessed by the subscribers. Moreover the V SubId can be modified periodically such that subscriber privacy can be protected.

Aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in substantially any wired or wireless communication technology e.g. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Speed Packet Access HSPA Zigbee or another IEEE 802.XX technology. Additionally substantially all aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited in legacy e.g. wireline telecommunication technologies.

Referring initially to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates utilization of a V SubId to protect user privacy according to one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. System can assign a V SubId to a subscriber s account user equipment UE in response to a successful authentication such as a subscriber identity module SIM authentication and or SIM based authentication between the UE and a communication network. Moreover system can be utilized to mask or replace a unique ID associated with the UE during communication between the UE and one or more systems services. Typically UE can include most any electronic communication device such as but not limited to most any consumer electronic device for example a tablet computer a digital media player a digital photo frame a digital camera a cellular phone a personal computer a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone a laptop a gaming system etc. Further UE can also include for example LTE based devices such as but not limited to most any home or commercial appliance that includes an LTE radio. It can be noted that UE can be mobile have limited mobility and or be stationary. Typically the subscriber of the UE is assigned a unique and constant subscriber identifier SubId for example that is associated with the subscriber identity module SIM and or subscriber account associated with the UE . In one example the SubId is independent of a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN and SIM of the UE and does not change if the MSISDN is modified and or SIM is replaced.

In one embodiment system can include a network gateway for example deployed within a communication network e.g. cellular network that facilitates routing of a message s request s received from UE . As an example the network gateway can include but is not limited to a proxy server e.g. a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP proxy server can be utilized for performing header enrichment in communication messages e.g. HTTP requests transmitted from the UE to one or more network servers not shown . It is to be noted that the proxy server is not limited to employing HTTP and can employ most any other Internet protocol s as might be supported by an Internet proxy gateway. Further the UE can be coupled to the network gateway via one or more radio access network s and or network elements not shown of the mobility network. In one aspect the UE for example on power on or on entering a coverage area of the mobility network can perform a SIM or SIM based authentication with the communication network e.g. via handshaking with a home location register HLR to authorize the UE to communicate via the communication network. By way of example on authentication a network support node for example Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN can assign an Internet protocol IP address to the UE identify a device number such as but not limited to a MSISDN associated with the UE e.g. from the HLR and propagate the IP address and corresponding MSISDN to downstream network elements such as the network gateway .

When a request from UE is received the network gateway can detect an IP address from the request and accordingly determine the corresponding MSISDN associated with the IP address. The request as disclosed herein can include most any communication message delivered from the UE to a network server e.g. a web server an application server an email server etc. . In one example the request can include but is not limited to a request for information data from the network server. In another example the request can also include but is not limited to an instruction and or command for requesting the network server to perform a specific action e.g. load a new web page refresh a web page delete an email etc. . In yet another example the request can include a HTTP request e.g. a GET request a PUT request a DELETE request etc. . However it is noted that the subject disclosure is not limited to HTTP requests and that the UE can transmit requests utilizing most any communication protocol for example but not limited to Secure HTTP S HTTP HTTP Secure HTTPS SPDY protocol Waka protocol a proprietary protocol etc. Moreover if the UE utilizes a secure protocol such as but not limited to S HTTP and or HTTPS a network server not shown can perform a HTTP Redirect onto an endpoint within the server served by HTTP such that the network gateway can enrich the request with a V SubId SubId. Further it is to be noted that V SubId insertion is not limited to non secure HTTP or other Internet protocol s but also can be applied to these protocols when tunneled over a secure connection e.g. Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS Datagram Transport Layer Security DTLS etc. if a network proxy gateway e.g. an enterprise proxy can transparently de re encrypt the data as it passes through the proxy gateway. Furthermore although mobility and or cellular networks are described herein it is noted that the network gateway can reside within most any communication network e.g. wired or wireless that facilitates authentication with UE based on a unique ID credential associated with the UE and or subscriber of the UE prior to the UE connecting to and or accessing the communication network.

In one aspect the network gateway can employ a SubId enrichment policy wherein on receiving a request communication message and or data packet from UE the network gateway identifies a SubId associated with the MSISDN of the UE and enriches a header of the request with the SubId data based in part on the destination of the request. Typically the SubId is a unique and unchangeable identifier associated with a subscriber of UE . In particular the network gateway can determine whether the destination of the request is a trusted entity ies e.g. an entity authorized to access the SubId or an untrusted entity ies e.g. an entity that is not authorized to access the SubId for example based on a destination uniform resource locator URL within the request. In one example if the network gateway determines that the destination of the request is a trusted entity the header of the request can be updated with the SubId associated with UE and the updated request can be forwarded to the trusted entity . As an example the trusted entity can utilize the SubId to enable consistent data services and or a seamless service experience across data sessions for the UE e.g. one click payment taking advantage of implicit authentication already done as part of the device s logging on and or connecting to the mobile network .

Alternatively if the network gateway determines that the destination of the request is an untrusted entity the header of the request is updated with a V SubId . The updated request can then be forwarded to the untrusted entity . Since the V SubId can change with time e.g. periodically on demand based on an event schedule etc. and or across data sessions the untrusted entity cannot track and or profile subscriber activity. Moreover the V SubId can be randomly generated unique opaque and or can be repeated and or reused. Accordingly the V SubId due to its changing nature can prevent traceability of the subscriber by the untrusted entity while allowing a network service provider to uniquely identify the subscriber associated with the V SubId if the need arises e.g. for law enforcement .

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates generation and transmission of V SubIds over a mobility network in accordance with an aspect of the subject disclosure. To mitigate the risk of undesired subscriber behavior tracking by unauthorized systems system facilitates V SubId insertion in a data packet in place of a unique SubId insertion in response to the data packet being directed to the unauthorized systems. It is noted that the UE network gateway trusted entity ies and untrusted entity ies can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to system .

In one embodiment the network gateway can include a request analysis component that can determine whether a request received from UE is to be enriched with a V SubId or a unique SubId e.g. a SubId that is constant static . The request analysis component can receive the request from the UE and can analyze at least a portion of the request for example a header e.g. HTTP header associated with the request. In one example based on the analysis the request analysis component can identify a destination URL to which the request is directed. Further the request analysis component can compare the destination URL with a set of authorized and or trusted URLs stored in whitelist s that is retained in a URL data store . By way of example whitelist s can include a set of URLs associated with trusted websites systems content providers service providers etc. In an aspect the whitelist s can typically be created updated and or managed by a network operator associated with the network service provider. Further the request analysis component can determine an IP address of the UE e.g. based on the analysis of the request and can identify a corresponding device ID e.g. MSISDN of the UE .

Moreover if the request analysis component identifies that the destination URL is within the whitelist s then a request enrichment component can map the device ID e.g. MSISDN to a unique SubId associated with the subscriber e.g. via a database lookup and insert the SubId within the request e.g. within the header of the request . Further the request enrichment component can forward the enriched updated request to a trusted entity associated with the destination URL. Alternatively if the request analysis component identifies that the destination URL is not within the whitelist s then the request enrichment component can determine a V SubId for the request. According to an embodiment the request enrichment component can access an anonymous customer reference services ACRS component to receive the V SubId. Moreover the ACRS component can facilitate generation and management of V SubIds. Further the ACRS component can include a V SubId creation component that can generate a SIM based identifier e.g. an identifier generated in response to a SIM based authentication performed as part of the UE s connecting to the mobility network being successful and provide the SIM based identifier to external systems and application developers. As an example the V SubId can include most any random opaque unique for a specific time and or session number or code that can change based on an event criterion such as but not limited to expiration of a timer termination of a data session etc. In an aspect the V SubId creation component can generate the V SubId by employing most any random number generator that can create the V SubId based on or independent of the SubId MSISDN device ID etc. For example the V SubId creation component can utilize a 32 digit long random number or an MD5 hash of a random number.

Further the V SubId creation component can store e.g. temporarily or permanently the V SubId in one or more tables retained within ID data store . As an example a one to one mapping can typically exist between the V SubId and the SubId associated with the UE such that a SubId query based on the V SubId can be performed e.g. by service provider partner systems law enforcement systems etc. and the SubId corresponding to the queried V SubId be retrieved. In one aspect the ACRS component can determine when the subscriber s data session has ended or a timer associated with the V SubId has expired and can remove and or modify the V SubId from the one or more tables . As an example transaction logs associated with creation and or modification of records e.g. including the V SubId within the one or more tables can be saved e.g. by the ACRS component such that a subscriber s transaction can be identified at a later time e.g. for law enforcement purposes .

In one aspect on receiving a request for a V SubId from the request enrichment component the ACRS component can perform a table lookup to determine if the subscriber for the destination URL has a previously generated valid and or non expired V SubId stored in the one or more tables . If a valid and or non expired V SubId exists for the subscriber the existing V SubId can be returned to the request enrichment component by the ACRS component . In contrast if valid and or non expired V SubId does not exist for the subscriber the V SubId creation component can generate a new V SubId and return the new V SubId to the request enrichment component . In one aspect the request enrichment component can insert the V SubId within the request e.g. within the header and forward the enriched updated request to an untrusted entity associated with the destination URL. Additionally or optionally the V SubId can be stored at the network gateway for a specific period e.g. 24 hours to avoid and or reduce communication between the request enrichment component and the ACRS component . In one aspect to further increase efficiency the request enrichment component can utilize the same V SubId while not expired across all untrusted entities for a specific time.

Accordingly system facilitates delivery of SubIds to the trusted entity ies and delivery of V SubIds to the untrusted entity ies . Although only whitelist s are depicted and described herein it is noted that the URL data store can also include blacklist s that specify URL s of untrusted entity ies to which a V SubId and not a SubId is to be transmitted. Further it is noted that the URL data store and the ID data store can include volatile memory s or nonvolatile memory s or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory s . Examples of suitable types of volatile and non volatile memory are described below with reference to . The memory e.g. data stores databases of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates a reverse lookup for a SubId by a trusted entity according to an aspect of the subject disclosure. Typically system can be utilized for providing an ID associated with a subscriber e.g. static or dynamic to one or more websites systems platforms etc. to facilitate communication with UE . It is noted that the UE network gateway untrusted entity ies ACRS component and ID data store can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems and . System can include a trusted entity ies such as but not limited to a trusted website system network platform server etc. which can be authorized e.g. by the user and or service provider to receive and or utilize a SubId associated with the subscriber for example for value added services. Moreover the trusted entity ies can be substantially similar to trusted entity ies and can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to trusted entity ies .

In one aspect the UE can communicate with the trusted entity ies via the untrusted entity ies . For example a trusted website can be accessed by the UE from a link on an untrusted website. As described herein the network gateway provides a V SubId to the untrusted entity ies during communication between the UE and the untrusted entity ies . As an example the V SubId is inserted within a request from the UE to the untrusted entity ies for example within a header e.g. HTTP header in the request and or the body of the request. In another example the V SubId can be appended to the header and or body of the request. The V SubId can be transmitted through a communication network for example via one or more websites servers systems to the trusted entity ies . Based on an analysis of the request the trusted entity ies can detect that the received ID e.g. within a header of a request is a V SubId. For example V SubIds can have a specific configuration and or syntax such as but not limited to a predefined code within the first last N digits characters wherein N can be most any positive integer which can be identified by the trusted entity ies to verify that the received ID is a V SubId.

According to an embodiment the trusted entity ies can exchange the V SubId for a SubId associated with the subscriber via an application programming interface API platform . As an example the API platform can receive the V SubId from the trusted entity ies verify that the trusted entity ies is authorized to receive the SubId e.g. based on a URL associated with the trusted entity ies and query the ACRS component for the SubId on successful verification. In one aspect the ACRS component can perform a reverse lookup to retrieve a SubId corresponding to the V SubId from the ID data store . As an example the API platform can provide an appropriate interface e.g. Representational state transfer RESTful interface Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP interface etc. to facilitate communication between the trusted entity ies and the ACRS component .

The trusted entity ies can utilize the SubId to apply user preferences and or enable consistent data services and provide a seamless service experience across data sessions. Accordingly system can enrich a header e.g. HTTP header with a V SubId that cannot be utilized by untrusted entities for subscriber profiling and can provide an API platform that enables the trusted entity ies to securely retrieve the SubId using the V SubId. Although it is depicted in as residing outside the ACRS component the ID data store also can reside e.g. completely or partially within the ACRS component and or be locally or remotely coupled to the ACRS component .

In one aspect the API platform provides an interface for the untrusted entity ies to make a request for an ACR based on user authorization. The ACR creation component can generate ACRs in real time and manage ACR lifecycles. As an example the ACR can include most any random number that can be based on or independent of a SubId associated with UE . Typically the ACR can be specific to a particular website or set of websites and can be static and or dynamic. In one aspect the ACR creation component can generate a unique and or service site specific ACR based on address data of the untrusted entity ies such as but not limited to a URL Fully Qualified Domain Name FQDN an IP address a uniform resource identifier URI etc. Moreover the address data can be extracted from the request e.g. header or body received from UE .

On receiving a request to generate an ACR static and or dynamic for a specific untrusted entity ies the API platform can facilitate authorization e.g. depicted as a dotted line in with the UE to receive subscriber consent and or approval. As an example the authorization can include but is not limited to an OAuth flow that is used to ensure subscriber s authorization for the ACR request by the untrusted entity ies . OAuth is a security protocol that is developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF OAuth Working Group and is defined by D. Hardt Ed The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Protocol draft ietf oauth v2 31 Jul. 31 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein. It is noted that the subject disclosure is not limited to the OAuth protocol and most any communication protocol can be utilized for authorization. On receiving subscriber authorization API platform can request the ACR creation component to generate the ACR and transmit the ACR e.g. through API Platform to the untrusted entity ies . Additionally or optionally the ACR creation component can generate and store the ACR in a table within the ID data store . For dynamic ACRs the ACR creation component can periodically update the value of the ACR specific to an entity and store the updated value in the table . Moreover if user authorization is not received the API Platform will not forward the ACR request from the untrusted entity ies to the ACR creation component .

In one example the ACR creation component can generate the ACR by applying a cryptographic hash function to a string composed from the untrusted entity ies s address and or the subscriber s SubId. The resulting hash value is unique to the combination of the untrusted entity ies s Internet address and the subscriber s SubId. Since the ACR corresponds to a specific untrusted entity cross service correlation of user requests and or tracking based upon that correlation without further explicit correlating information provided by the user to each service can be impeded and or prevented. In one example the cryptographic hash function can be a one way hash such that the value of the SubId cannot be determined by analyzing the ACR to impede and or prevent unauthorized determination of a SubId by the untrusted entity ies . In this example if the ACR is communicated e.g. via communication network to a trusted entity ies as shown by dotted line the trusted entity ies can request for the SubId associated with the ACR via communication with the API platform as explained in detail above with respect to system . The ACR can include a predefined code for example within the first last N digits characters wherein N can include most any positive integer which can be identified by the trusted entity ies to verify that the received ID is an ACR. Moreover as with the V SubId the trusted entity can exchange the ACR for a SubId associated with the subscriber via the API platform . Moreover the API platform can receive the ACR from the trusted entity ies determine that the trusted entity ies is authorized to receive the SubId e.g. based on a URL associated with the trusted entity ies and query the ACRS component for the SubId on successful verification. In one aspect the ACRS component can perform a reverse lookup to retrieve a SubId corresponding to the ACR from the ID data store .

In another example the ACR creation component can generate the ACR by applying an encryption algorithm to the SubId using a pre provisioned encryption key specific to the untrusted entity ies . For example the encryption key can be based on the address data e.g. FQDN IP address URL etc. associated with the untrusted entity ies . The resulting ACR is unique to the combination of the untrusted entity ies s address and the SubId and can thus impede and or prevent cross domain profiling. Further the ACR creation component can provide via API platform a decryption key and or password to a trusted entity ies as depicted by the dotted line . As an example the decryption key can be provided to the trusted entity ies at most any time for example on creation of the ACR on receipt of a request from the trusted entity ies on demand on detection of an event etc. In another example the decryption key can be provided to the trusted entity ies via out of band means. Moreover the trusted entity ies can store the decryption key e.g. in a local data store not shown utilize the decryption key to decrypt the ACR received from the untrusted entity ies and identify the SubId associated with UE . Accordingly communication between the trusted entity ies and the API platform can be reduced.

In yet another example the ACR creation component can generate a unique dynamic and site specific ACR based upon the address data e.g. FQDN IP address URL etc. associated with the untrusted entity ies . Moreover the ACR is not static but changes over time e.g. periodically based on an event on demand per request etc. to reduce and or prevent snooping replay attacks and other such security risks. In this example the ACR creation component applies an encryption algorithm to the SubId using a dynamic encryption key. The algorithm for selection of the dynamic encryption key can vary based on the untrusted entity ies and utilize different schedules for advancement to a new key value. As an example the dynamic ACR is unique to a combination of the untrusted entity ies s address and the SubId associated with the UE . In one aspect the encryption can include a two step encryption such that an authorized untrusted entity can determine a static site service specific ACR and a trusted entity can determine the SubId based on an analysis of the dynamic ACR.

Further the ACR creation component can provide via API platform dynamic encryption key algorithm to a trusted entity ies as depicted by the dotted line . As an example the dynamic encryption key algorithm can be provided to the trusted entity ies at most any time for example on creation of the ACR on receipt of a request from the trusted entity ies on demand on detection of an event etc. In another example the dynamic encryption key algorithm can also be provided to the trusted entity ies via out of band means. The trusted entity ies can store the dynamic encryption key algorithm e.g. in a local data store not shown and utilize the dynamic encryption key algorithm to identify the SubId associated with UE based on decrypting the ACR received from the untrusted entity ies . In addition another dynamic encryption key algorithm can be provided to the untrusted entity ies based on user authorization e.g. at most any time and or via most any communication means . The untrusted entity ies can store the other dynamic encryption key algorithm e.g. in a local data store not shown and utilize the other dynamic encryption key algorithm to identify a static site service specific ACR associated with UE based on decrypting the dynamic ACR received from the network gateway . It is noted that the subject disclosure is not limited to the above noted ACR generation techniques algorithms and that the ACR creation component can utilize most any technique to generate a static and or periodically changing site service specific ACR.

While the ACR is active for a given URL the ACRS component can provide the ACR to the network gateway for enrichment of subsequent requests to the untrusted entity ies from the UE . As an example the expiration time associated with the ACR can be specified by the user during authorization and or can be set to a code e.g. 999 that indicates that the ACR will not expire unless explicitly requested by the subscriber and or the untrusted entity ies . Further the untrusted entity ies and or subscriber via UE can request an ACR cancellation through API platform . As an example OAuth flow can be employed to ensure subscriber s authorization for the ACR cancellation if requested by the untrusted entity ies e.g. the same OAuth token that was utilized to create the ACR can be reused to cancel the ACR . Moreover on receiving the ACR cancellation request e.g. authorized by the subscriber the ACRS component can remove the ACR from the table and notify the network gateway of the cancelled ACR.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates utilization of a V SubId as a device identifier for a UE according to one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter. System can assign a V SubId to a subscriber s account and or the UE in response to a subscriber identity module SIM authentication and or SIM based authentication between the UE and a communication network being successful. System can be utilized to mask and or replace a unique ID associated with the UE e.g. unique device ID UDID during communication between the UE and one or more systems services. The UE trusted entity ies untrusted entity ies and V SubId can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems .

The UE can be associated with a unique ID that facilitates identification of the subscriber and or the UE . For example a SubId can be assigned e.g. by a service provider to the subscriber of the UE . The SubId is a unique and constant subscriber identifier that is associated with the subscriber identity module SIM of the UE and or a subscriber account associated with the UE . In one example the SubId is independent of a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN and or SIM of the UE and does not change if the MSISDN is modified and or SIM is replaced. Additionally the UE can be assigned a unique device ID UDID e.g. by a manufacturer and or service provider for example a serial number that is specific to UE . In one aspect applications apps residing on UE utilize the UDID to facilitate customization and or remember user preferences. Moreover utilization of the UDID enables consistent data services and or a seamless service experience across data sessions for the UE .

In one embodiment system can include a communication network for example a cellular network that can serve the UE . As an example the UE can be coupled to the communication network via one or more radio access network s and or network elements not shown . In an aspect the UE for example on power on and or on entering a coverage area of the communication network can perform a SIM authentication with the communication network e.g. via handshaking with a home location register HLR to authorize the UE to connect to and communicate via the communication network . By way of example on authentication a network support node for example GGSN can assign an Internet protocol IP address to the UE identify a device number such as but not limited to a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN associated with the UE e.g. from the HLR and propagate the IP address and corresponding MSISDN to downstream network elements e.g. network gateway . In one aspect on authentication and connection with the communication network the UE can request e.g. periodically on demand based on an event etc. a V SubId that can be utilized in place of a UDID of the device.

When the request from UE is received a network element e.g. network gateway within communication network can detect an IP address associated with the UE from the request and accordingly determine the corresponding MSISDN of the UE associated with the IP address. Moreover a SubId associated with the MSISDN can be identified and a V SubId can be generated based on or independent of the SubId. Typically the SubId can be a unique and unchangeable identifier associated with a subscriber of UE . In contrast the V SubId can change with time e.g. periodically on demand based on an event schedule etc. and or across data sessions such that subscriber activity monitoring and or tracking is prevented or impeded. As an example the V SubId can be randomly generated unique opaque and or can be repeated and or reused for different UEs . The V SubId can be transmitted to the UE by the communication network and can be utilized by one or more applications browsers on the UE during communication over a communication network and or communication over the communication network . As an example the communication network can include a WiFi network. In an aspect the UE can utilize the V SubId for communication with trusted entities e.g. systems and or servers that are authorized to track monitor the subscriber UE activity and or untrusted entities e.g. systems and or servers that are not authorized to track monitor the subscriber UE activity . Accordingly the V SubId due to its changing nature can prevent or impede traceability of the subscriber and or UE while allowing a network service provider to uniquely identify the subscriber associated with the V SubId if the need arises e.g. for law enforcement .

Although communication network is described herein to include a mobility and or cellular network s it is noted that the communication network can include most any communication network e.g. wired or wireless that facilitates authentication with UE based on a unique ID credential associated with the UE and or subscriber of the UE prior to the UE connecting to and or accessing the communication network . In addition the communication network is not limited to a WiFi network and can include most any communication network e.g. wired or wireless . As an example UE can connect to and or communicate via communication network and communication network simultaneously and or at different times.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates generation and transmission of V SubIds over a communication network in accordance with an aspect of the subject disclosure. To mitigate the risk of undesired subscriber behavior tracking by unauthorized systems system facilitates utilization of a V SubId in place of a unique device ID associated with UE . In an aspect the V SubId is generated subsequent to an authentication e.g. SIM based authentication between the UE and a communication network e.g. a cellular network . For example the authentication can be performed when the UE is powered on or when the UE enters a coverage area associated with communication network . It is noted that the UE ACRS component communication network table s ID data store and V SubId creation component can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems .

In one embodiment the communication network can include the ACRS component that facilitates generation and management of V SubIds associated with UE . Moreover the V SubId can be a SIM based Identifier for example an identifier that is generated and or assigned to the SubId if a SIM or SIM based authentication performed as part of the UE s connecting to the communication network is successful. As an example the V SubId can include most any random opaque and or unique for a specific time and or session number or code that can change periodically or based on an event criterion such as but not limited to expiration of a timer termination of a data session etc. In an aspect the V SubId creation component can generate the V SubId by employing most any random number generator that can create the V SubId based on or independent of the SubId MSISDN UDID etc. associated with UE .

In one aspect UE can include an anonymous customer reference ACR client component that can request a V SubId from the ACRS component retain the V SubId received from the ACRS component and provide the V SubId to an application s . For example the ACR client component can request for the V SubId periodically e.g. every 24 hours based on an event e.g. expiration of a timer and or on demand e.g. when requested by application s . Moreover on receiving a request for the V SubId from the ACR client component the ACRS component can perform a table lookup to determine if a previously generated valid and or non expired V SubId exists for the subscriber of UE and is stored in the one or more tables . If a valid and or non expired V SubId is assigned to the subscriber s SubId the existing V SubId can be returned to the ACR client component by the ACRS component . In contrast if valid and or non expired V SubId does not exist for the subscriber the V SubId creation component can generate a new V SubId and return the new V SubId to the ACR client component . Additionally or optionally the V SubId can be stored at the UE e.g. by the ACR client component for a specific time period e.g. 24 hours to avoid and or minimize communication between the ACR client component and the ACRS component . It is noted that the communication between the ACR client component and the ACRS component is secured based on most any authentication and or authorization technique s .

Application s can include most any applications that enable the UE to perform a specific task. Typically application s can be pre installed e.g. during manufacture or provisioning downloaded updated by the UE from a software distribution platform received via an over the air OTA update and the like. As an example application s can also include but are not limited to web applications and or web browsers. In one aspect during communication e.g. via communication network application s can include the V SubId in the communication data. For example application s can extract and or receive the V SubId through an application programming interface API provided by the ACR client component and can insert the V SubId in a header e.g. Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP header and or body of a communication message. In another example the V SubId can be appended to the header and or body of the communication message. Accordingly system facilitates utilization and delivery V SubIds and not a SubId UDID to entity ies e.g. trusted and or untrusted entities during a communication between the UE and the entity ies via the communication network .

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates an exchange of a V SubId for a SubId by a trusted entity in one aspect of the subject disclosure. Typically system can be utilized for providing V SubIds associated with a subscriber e.g. in place of a static UDID to one or more websites systems platforms etc. to facilitate communication with UE . It is noted that the UE communication network communication network trusted entity ies ACRS component ID data store API platform ACR client component and application s can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems . As an example trusted entity ies depicted in can include but are not limited to a trusted website system network platform server etc. which can be authorized e.g. by the user and or service provider to receive and or utilize a unique and static identifier e.g. SubId associated with the subscriber of UE for example for implementing value added services. For example the trusted entity ies can utilize the unique and or static identifier e.g. SubId to enable consistent data services and or provide a seamless service experience across data sessions for the UE e.g. one click payment taking advantage of implicit authentication already done as part of the UE s logging on and or connecting to the communication network .

In one aspect the UE can access the trusted entity ies via one or more networked elements nodes links in communication network . Additionally or alternatively a trusted entity ies e.g. a trusted website can be accessed by the applications from a link on an untrusted entity not shown . As described herein the V SubId inserted by the applications in a communication message transmitted from the UE can be received by the trusted entity ies . As an example the V SubId is inserted within a header e.g. HTTP header and or body of a message request transmitted from the UE to the trusted entity ies . In one aspect based on an analysis of the request message the trusted entity ies can detect that the received ID e.g. within a header body of the message request is a V SubId. For example V SubIds can have a specific configuration and or syntax such as but not limited to a predefined code within the first last N digits characters wherein N can be most any positive integer which can be identified by the trusted entity ies to verify that the received ID is a V SubId.

In one embodiment the trusted entity ies can exchange the V SubId for a SubId associated with the subscriber via the application programming interface API platform . As an example the API platform can receive a query that includes the V SubId from the trusted entity ies . In one aspect the API platform can verify that the trusted entity ies is authorized to receive the SubId for example based on a URL based authorization and or a certificate based authorization. In response to successful verification the API platform can query the ACRS component for the SubId. In one aspect the ACRS component can perform a reverse lookup to retrieve the SubId corresponding to the V SubId from the ID data store . As an example the API platform can provide an appropriate interface e.g. Representational state transfer RESTful interface Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP interface etc. to facilitate secure communication between the trusted entity ies and the ACRS component .

In an aspect communication network can include but is not limited to a cellular network and communication network can include but is not limited to a WiFi network. However communication network and or communication network are not limited to wireless networks and can include most any wired communication network. Further although it is depicted in as residing outside communication network and communication network the trusted entity ies can be included within communication network or communication network . Additionally or alternatively in one example aspect trusted entity ies can include but are not limited to at least a portion of application s on the UE . In this example aspect trusted entity ies can retrieve the SubId corresponding to the V SubId via secure communication with the API platform over communication network and or communication network . As an example the API platform can authenticate e.g. based on URL data security certificates etc. the trusted entity ies prior to providing the SubId to the trusted entity ies to prevent access by an untrusted entity.

In one aspect the API platform provides an interface for untrusted application s to make a request for an ACR static and or dynamic based on user authorization. As an example untrusted application s can be substantially similar to application s and can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to application s . Moreover untrusted application s can include most any applications e.g. third party applications that are not authorized to access a device ID and or SubId associated with the UE . In an aspect the ACR creation component can generate application specific ACRs static and or dynamic in response to receiving a request for an ACR from the untrusted application s . As an example the ACR can include most any random number or code that can be based on or independent of a SubId UDID MSISDN associated with UE . Moreover an ACR static and or dynamic can be specific to an untrusted application e.g. customized tailored based on data associated with the untrusted application . In one aspect the untrusted application s can obtain user authorization to request the ACR via authorization component . As an example the authorization component can request and receive user approval via an input output interface not shown of UE . In one aspect the authorization component can facilitate communication between the UE and an authorization server within the communication network . For example the authorization component can provide data indicative of the user approval to the authorization server which in turn can communicate with the untrusted application s to deliver data such as but not limited to an authorization token to the untrusted application s . On obtaining the authorization token the untrusted application s can communicate with the API platform e.g. via one or more network servers to facilitate retrieval of the ACR. Moreover the API platform can verify the authorization token by communication with the authorization server and query the ACRS component for the ACR in response to the authorization token being verified. As an example the communication with the authorization server to facilitate authorization can employ but is not limited to an OAuth flow that is used to ensure subscriber s authorization for the ACR request by the untrusted application s . It is noted that the subject disclosure is not limited to the OAuth protocol and most any communication protocol can be utilized for authorization.

The ACR creation component can generate the ACR for the untrusted application s and store the ACR in a table within the ID data store . In one example the ACR creation component can generate an application specific ACR static and or dynamically changing by applying a cryptographic hash function to a string composed from data identifying the untrusted application s and the subscriber s SubId. Since the ACR is corresponds to a specific untrusted application correlation of user requests between different applications and or tracking based upon that correlation without further explicit correlating information provided by the user to each application can be impeded and or prevented. As an example the cryptographic hash function can be a one way hash such that the value of the SubId cannot be determined by an unauthorized entity based on analyzing the ACR. Accordingly unauthorized determination of the SubId by the untrusted entity ies can be impeded and or prevented.

In another example the ACR creation component can generate an application specific static e.g. remains constant until deleted by user application ACR by applying an encryption algorithm to the SubId. Moreover the encryption algorithm can employ a pre provisioned encryption key that is specific to the untrusted application s . Moreover different encryption keys can be utilized for different untrusted applications. For example the encryption key can be based on the address data e.g. FQDN IP address URL etc. associated with a network server e.g. app server associated with the untrusted application s . The resulting ACR is unique to the combination of the untrusted application s s address data and the SubId associated with the UE . Accordingly the ACR creation component generates different ACRs for different applications and thus cross domain profiling between the different applications can be impeded and or prevented.

In yet another example the ACR creation component can generate a unique dynamic and application specific ACR based upon data e.g. address data associated with the untrusted application s . Moreover in this example scenario the ACR is not static and the ACR creation component generates a new ACR for the same untrusted application s over time e.g. periodically based on an event on demand per request etc. . The dynamic ACR reduces snooping replay attacks and other such security risks. In this example the ACR creation component can apply an encryption algorithm to the SubId associated with UE using a dynamic encryption key. The algorithm for selection of the dynamic encryption key can vary based on the untrusted application s and can employ different schedules for advancement to a new key value to generate a new ACR. At any given time the dynamic ACR is unique to the combination of the data associated with the untrusted application s and the SubId associated with the UE . As an example the dynamic ACR can be encrypted e.g. by ACR creation component in a manner such that a trusted entity can decrypt the dynamic ACR to identify the SubId of the UE and an untrusted entity e.g. application can decrypt the dynamic ACR to identify a static application specific e.g. constant ACR assigned to the application . As an example different decryption data e.g. keys can be provided to e.g. by the ACRS component and or via out of band means the trusted entity and untrusted entity to facilitate the above decryption. It is noted that the subject disclosure is not limited to the above noted ACR generation techniques algorithms and that the ACR creation component can utilize most any technique to generate a static and or periodically changing application specific ACR.

Subsequent to the ACR being generated e.g. by the ACR creation component the ACRS component can provide the ACR to the API platform and or the ACR client component for servicing subsequent requests for ACR from the untrusted application s . As an example the expiration time associated with the ACR can be specified by the user during authorization e.g. via authorization component set by the encryption algorithm and or can be set to a code e.g. 999 that indicates that the ACR will not expire unless explicitly requested by the subscriber and or the untrusted application s . Further the untrusted application s and or subscriber via UE can request an ACR cancellation through API platform . As an example OAuth flow e.g. via authorization component can be employed to provide the subscriber s authorization for the ACR cancellation if requested by the untrusted application s e.g. the same authorization token that was utilized to create the ACR can be reused to cancel the ACR . Moreover on receiving the ACR cancellation request e.g. authorized by the subscriber the ACRS component can remove the ACR from the table and notify the untrusted application s and or the ACR client component of the cancelled ACR.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example system that facilitates exchange of application specific ACRs for SubIds in one aspect of the subject innovation. Typically the UE trusted entity ies ACRS component ID data store ACR client component API platform and untrusted applications can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems .

In this embodiment initially the ACR client component provides a V SubId e.g. in place of a UDID SubId to the untrusted applications . As described herein with respect to system the untrusted applications can exchange the V SubId for an ACR via API platform based on user approval e.g. via communication with the authorization server . On receiving user approval the ACRS component can create e.g. by employing the ACR creation component and or store respective ACRs for the untrusted applications in ID data store . In one example the ACRs static and or dynamic can be utilized by the ACR client component for subsequent requests from the untrusted applications for example until deleted and or cancelled by the subscriber and or the untrusted applications .

As an example the untrusted applications can provide the ACR to a trusted entity ies e.g. trusted websites servers systems etc. during communication with the trusted entity ies via one or more networked elements nodes links of most any communication network e.g. communication network . In one aspect based on an analysis of the communication the trusted entity ies can detect that the received ID e.g. within a header body of the message request is an ACR. For example the ACR can include a predefined code for example within the first last N digits characters wherein N can be most any positive integer which can be identified by the trusted entity ies accessed via untrusted application s to verify that the received ID is an ACR. As an example the trusted entity ies can determine the SubId associated with the ACR by communication with the ACRS component via the API platform and or by analyzing e.g. decrypting the ACR.

In one example if the ACR is generated e.g. by the ACR creation component by employing a one way hash the trusted entity ies cannot extract the SubId from the ACR. In this example scenario the trusted entity ies can query the API platform for the SubId corresponding to the ACR. On receiving the query the API platform can verify that the trusted entity is authorized to receive the SubId e.g. based on a URL associated with the trusted entity and on successful verification query the ACRS component for the SubId. In one aspect the ACRS component can perform a reverse lookup to retrieve the SubId corresponding to the ACR from the ID data store . The retrieved SubId can be provided to the trusted entity ies via the API platform .

In another example if the ACR is generated e.g. by the ACR creation component by employing an encryption algorithm with a pre provisioned encryption key the trusted entity ies can receive from the ACRS component a decryption key corresponding to the a pre provisioned encryption key e.g. using out of band means . Further the trusted entity ies can decrypt the ACR by employing the decryption key to obtain the SubId associated with UE . In yet another example if the ACR is generated e.g. by the ACR creation component by employing a dynamic encryption key algorithm that employs an encryption key that changes over time the trusted entity ies can receive from the ACRS component the dynamic encryption key algorithm e.g. using out of band means . The trusted entity ies can decrypt the ACR based on the dynamic encryption key algorithm to obtain the SubId associated with UE .

Consider a non limiting example scenario wherein the user accesses an untrusted application for example a weather application and or a weather website www.weather.com through a browser application on the UE . An app server and or web server associated with the weather application and or website www.weather.com can be provided with an application specific ACR during communication with the UE to impede and or prevent cross application monitoring and or tracking of user activity. In one aspect the app server and or web server can further communicate with a trusted entity ies such as an advertisement ad server within a service provider s network. In this example the ad server can communicate with the API platform to exchange the ACR for a SubId associated with the user and or receive a decryption key dynamic encryption key algorithm e.g. via out of band means to calculate the SubId from the ACR. Once the decryption key dynamic encryption key algorithm is received the ad server can identify the SubId for subsequent ACRs received in subsequent messages without communicating with the API platform . As an example the ad server can utilize the SubId data to identify user preferences and or interests and select one or more ads based on the user preferences and or interests. Further the ad server can provide the one or more ads to the app server and or web server.

Referring now to illustrated is an example method that facilitates generation of an ACR according to an aspect of the subject disclosure. As an example method can be implemented within a telecommunication network to deter impede and or prevent tracking of subscriber activity by unauthorized entities. Further method can facilitate an exchange of a V SubId for an application specific ACR based on a user authorization. As an example the ACR can be a static non changing or dynamic identifier and can be utilized by an application instead of a UDID associated with a UE and or during header enrichment by a network node.

At a request for an ACR can be received e.g. by the ACRS component . For example an untrusted entity e.g. an application server a web server etc. can request for a device subscriber identifier instead of a V SubId to remember a UE and provide consistent data services and or a seamless service experience across data sessions associated with the UE. At user authorization can be verified e.g. by authorization component . If a user via an interface on the UE approves ACR generation at an ACR can be generated e.g. by ACR creation component . As an example the ACR can be generated based in part on the SubId associated with the user and or address data e.g. URL FQDN URI etc. associated with the untrusted entity. The ACR can be static non changing and or can be dynamically updated e.g. based on an encryption algorithm . At the ACR can be assigned to the SubId associated with a UE e.g. by the ACRS component . Further at the ACR can be transmitted to the untrusted entity e.g. by the API platform the ACR client component and or the network gateway .

At the ACR can be provided to the untrusted entity e.g. by the ACRS component . Moreover the same ACR can be utilized for subsequent communication from the UE to the untrusted entity. In one aspect at the ACR can be deleted based on user authorization. On deletion of the ACR the untrusted entity can be provided with a new V SubId each time the UE accesses the untrusted entity.

Referring now to there illustrated is an example method that facilitates generation of an ACR based on a static encryption key according to an aspect of the subject disclosure. At a request for an ACR can be received e.g. by the ACRS component from an untrusted entity e.g. an application server a web server etc. . In an aspect the untrusted entity can utilize the ACR to track user behavior over time and provide consistent data services and or a seamless service experience across data sessions. At user authorization can be verified e.g. by the authorization component . For example user authorization can be received via an interface on the UE.

At a static encryption key can be determined e.g. by the ACRS component based on address data e.g. FQDN IP address URL etc. associated with the untrusted entity. Further at the ACR can be generated e.g. by the ACR creation component based on the static encryption key. Moreover the generated ACR is unique to the combination of the untrusted entity s address and or the SubId and can thus impede and or prevent cross domain profiling. At the ACR can be provided to the untrusted entity e.g. by the ACRS component . At the ACR can be utilized as a device subscriber identifier for subsequent messaging from the UE to the untrusted entity e.g. until the ACR expires and or is cancelled by the user untrusted entity . Accordingly the untrusted entity can track user behavior but cross domain tracking and or profiling by an unauthorized entity can be impeded prevented.

Furthermore at a decryption key and or password corresponding to the encryption key can be transmitted to one or more trusted entities. As an example the decryption key can be provided to the one or more trusted entities via a secure communication at most any time for example on creation of the ACR on receipt of a request from the one or more trusted entities on demand on detection of an event etc. In another example the decryption key can be provided to the one or more trusted entities via out of band means. In one aspect the one or more trusted entities can utilize the decryption key to decrypt the ACR received from the untrusted entity and determine the SubId associated with the UE.

In one aspect at a dynamic encryption key can be determined e.g. by the ACR creation component based on a dynamic encryption key algorithm. As an example the dynamic encryption key algorithm is utilized for selection of the dynamic encryption key and can vary based on the untrusted entity and or employ different schedules for advancement to a new key value. At the dynamic encryption key algorithm can be provided to one or more trusted entities via a secure communication. Additionally or alternatively an untrusted entity can also be provided with another the dynamic encryption key algorithm e.g. in response to receiving user authorization that enables the untrusted entity to determine a static constant site service application specific ACR based on the dynamically changing ACR. In one example the dynamic encryption key algorithm s can be provided to the one or more trusted entities and or the untrusted entity at most any time for example on creation of the ACR on receipt of a request from the one or more trusted entities and or untrusted entity on demand on detection of an event etc. In another example the dynamic encryption key algorithm s can be provided to the one or more trusted entities and or the untrusted entity via out of band means. In one aspect the one or more trusted entities can utilize the dynamic encryption key algorithm to identify the SubId associated with UE based on decrypting the ACR within a communication received from the untrusted entity.

Further at the ACR can be generated e.g. by the ACR creation component based on the dynamic encryption key. As an example the dynamic ACR is unique to the combination of the untrusted entity s address and or the SubId associated with the UE. At the ACR can be provided to the untrusted entity. Further at a subsequent communication between the UE and the untrusted entity can be detected. In response at the dynamic encryption key can be updated based on the dynamic encryption key algorithm and the method can return to at which a new ACR can be generated.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a UE that prevents or impedes unauthorized tracking subscriber activity based on utilization of V SubIds ACRs in accordance with the subject specification. In addition the UE can be substantially similar to and include functionality associated with UE described herein. In one aspect the UE can include a processor for controlling all onboard operations and processes. A memory can interface to the processor for storage of data e.g. including V SubIds ACRs and one or more applications being executed by the processor . A communications component can interface to the processor to facilitate wired wireless communication with external systems e.g. communication network and or communication network . The communications component interfaces to a location component e.g. GPS transceiver that can facilitate location detection of the UE .

The UE can include a display for displaying content downloaded and or for displaying text information related to operating and using the device features. A serial I O interface is provided in communication with the processor to facilitate serial communication e.g. USB and or IEEE 1394 via a hardwire connection. Audio capabilities are provided with an audio I O component which can include a speaker for the output of audio signals related to for example recorded data or telephony voice data and a microphone for inputting voice signals for recording and or telephone conversations.

Further the UE can include a slot interface for accommodating a subscriber identity module SIM . As an example data from the SIM can be utilized to facilitate authentication with communication network based on which a V SubId ACR can be received by the UE . Firmware is also provided to store and provide to the processor startup and operational data. The UE can also include an image capture component such as a camera and or a video decoder for decoding encoded multimedia content. Further the UE can include a power source in the form of batteries which power source interfaces to an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component . In addition the UE can include an ACR client component application s and authorization component which can be stored in memory and can include respective functionality as more fully described herein for example with regard to systems .

Now turning to there is depicted an example GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture that can employ the disclosed communication architecture. In particular the GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture includes a GSM core network a GPRS network and an IP multimedia network . The GSM core network includes a Mobile Station MS at least one Base Transceiver Station BTS and a Base Station Controller BSC . The MS is physical equipment or Mobile Equipment ME such as a mobile phone or a laptop computer that is used by mobile subscribers with a Subscriber identity Module SIM . The SIM includes an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI and or MSISDN which is a unique identifier of a subscriber. The MS includes an embedded client that receives and processes messages received by the MS . The embedded client can be implemented in JAVA and is discussed more fully below. It is noted that MS can be substantially similar to UE and UE and can include functionality described with respect to UEs in systems and .

The embedded client communicates with an application that provides services and or information to an end user. In one aspect embedded client includes the ACR client component described in detail with respect to systems and . Further the application can include application s described in detail with respect to systems and . Additionally or alternately the MS and a device can be enabled to communicate via a short range wireless communication link such as BLUETOOTH . Further MS can also communicate with communication network e.g. a WiFi network . As one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize there can be an unlimited number of devices that use the SIM within the MS to provide services information data audio video etc. to end users.

The BTS is physical equipment such as a radio tower that enables a radio interface to communicate with the MS . Each BTS can serve more than one MS. The BSC manages radio resources including the BTS. The BSC can be connected to several BTSs. The BSC and BTS components in combination are generally referred to as a base station BSS or radio access network RAN .

The GSM core network also includes a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC performs a switching function for the network. The MSC also performs other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC provides a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . In other words the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR is a database or component s that comprises administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. The HLR also includes the current location of each MS. The VLR is a database or component s that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR contains information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM. The AuC provides the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR stores security sensitive information about the mobile equipment. In one aspect the AuC performs a SIM authentication in response to MS for example powering on and or entering a coverage area of the BTS . The SIM authentication allows the MS to communicate via the GSM GPRS IP multimedia network. By way of example on authentication a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN can assign an Internet protocol IP address to the MS receive a device number such as but not limited to a MSISDN associated with the MS from the HLR and propagate the IP address and corresponding MSISDN to downstream network elements such as the network gateway . The network gateway can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems and .

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one Short Message Service SMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push e.g. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router is provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. It is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as speech data and short message service SMS the MS first registers with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. The MS sends a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information is then sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR is updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update also is performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update is periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

The GPRS network is logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN is at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN controls the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN also keeps track of individual MS s locations security functions and access controls.

A Cell Broadcast Center CBC communicates cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile phone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN provides a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . That is the GGSN provides interworking functionality with external networks and sets up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN . In one aspect the GGSN is coupled to the other IP networks via the network gateway . Moreover network gateway can be coupled to the ACRS component which can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems and . Although it is depicted in as residing outside the GGSN the network gateway and or ACRS component can reside within e.g. completely or partially the GGSN . When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it is transferred to an external TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN . In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services can be used in parallel. A GPRS network can be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM NOM and NOM . A network operation mode of a GPRS network is indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages dictates a MS where to listen for paging messages and how signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network.

The IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and includes an IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. A representative set of the network entities within the IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS can be common to the GSM network the GPRS network as well as the IP multimedia network .

The IP multimedia system is built around the call session control function of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF forwards session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF can also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator for example address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF can contact a subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSSs are present. The S CSCF performs the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. The S CSCF also decides whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision is based on information received from the HSS or other sources such as an application server . The AS also communicates to a location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS . The MME provides authentication of a user by interacting with the HSS in LTE networks.

The HSS contains a subscriber profile and keeps track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It also supports subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF provides interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISUP BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown . It also controls the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between AMR and PCM coded voice . The MGW also communicates with a PSTN network for TDM trunks. In addition the MGCF communicates with the PSTN network for SS7 links. According to an embodiment systems disclosed herein can be implemented at least in part within and or communicatively coupled to the GSM network the GPRS network the IP multimedia network and or the IP networks .

The evolved RAN for LTE consists of an eNodeB eNB that can facilitate connection of MS to an evolved packet core EPC network. The connection of the MS to the evolved packet core EPC network is subsequent to an authentication for example a SIM based authentication between the MS and the evolved packet core EPC network. As an example the eNB can host a PHYsical PHY Medium Access Control MAC Radio Link Control RLC and Packet Data Control Protocol PDCP layers that include the functionality of user plane header compression and encryption. In addition the eNB can implement at least in part Radio Resource Control RRC functionality e.g. radio resource management admission control scheduling cell information broadcast etc. . The eNB can be coupled to a serving gateway SGW that facilitates routing of user data packets and serves as a local mobility anchor for data bearers when the MS moves between eNBs. In addition the SGW can act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies GPRS UMTS etc. . When MS is in an idle state the SGW terminates a downlink DL data path and triggers paging when DL data arrives for the MS . Further the SGW can perform various administrative functions in the visited network such as collecting information for charging and lawful interception.

In one aspect the SGW can be coupled to a Packet Data Network Gateway PDN GW that provides connectivity between the MS and external packet data networks such as IP service s network s . Moreover the PDN GW is a point of exit and entry of traffic for the MS . It is noted that the MS can have simultaneous connectivity with more than one PDN GW not shown for accessing multiple PDNs.

The PDN GW performs IP address allocation for the MS as well as QoS enforcement and implements flow based charging according to rules from a Policy Control and Charging Rules Function PCRF . The PCRF can facilitate policy control decision making and control flow based charging functionalities in a Policy Control Enforcement Function PCEF which resides in the PDN GW . The PCRF can store data e.g. QoS class identifier and or bit rates that facilitates QoS authorization of data flows within the PCEF.

In one aspect the PDN GW can facilitate filtering of downlink user IP packets into the different QoS based bearers and perform policy enforcement packet filtering for each user charging support lawful interception and packet screening. Further the PDN GW acts as the anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies such as WiMAX and 3GPP2 CDMA 1 and EvDO .

In one aspect the PDN GW is coupled to the IP service s network s via the network gateway . The network gateway can be coupled to the ACRS component which can include functionality as more fully described herein for example as described above with regard to systems and . Although it is depicted in as residing outside the PDN GW the network gateway and or ACRS component can reside within e.g. completely or partially the PDN GW . Although the GSM GPRS IP multimedia network architecture and LTE network architecture is described and illustrated herein it is noted that most any communication network architecture can be utilized to implement the disclosed embodiments.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed communication architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . As an example the gateway s entity ies component s server s and platform s e.g. network gateway trusted entity ies untrusted entity ies ACRS component ACR client component API platform UE authorization server etc. disclosed herein with respect to system can each include at least a portion of the computer . In another example a combination of the gateway s entity ies component s server s and or platform s can each include one or more computers such as or substantially similar to computer . Further each of the network element s stand alone and or in combination with one or more other network elements disclosed herein with respect to systems and can include at least a portion of computer or can include one or more computers such as or substantially similar to computer . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject disclosure.

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and storage media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable storage media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of storage media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such storage media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse or a touchscreen or touchpad not illustrated but which may be integrated into UE in some embodiments . These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter .

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. desktop and or portable computer server communications satellite etc. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10 BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database cache and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components or computer readable storage media described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

What has been described above includes examples of the present specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the present specification but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present specification are possible. Accordingly the present specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

