---

title: Method and system for providing a network gaming system
abstract: A method and system for providing a network gaming system is disclosed. The system comprises at least one database server accessible through a wide area network for storing account information for the users, the database server being configured for communicating with at least one game server supporting at least one game on a client, for providing at least a portion of the account information to the game server upon receiving a user identification from the game server, and for updating the account information by the at least one database server upon receiving an update from the game server either during or after completion of a game play by one the users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08740694&OS=08740694&RS=08740694
owner: Agincourt Gaming, LLC
number: 08740694
owner_city: Dallas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120625
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 315 465 filed Dec. 9 2011 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 102 000 filed May 5 2011 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 277 339 filed Mar. 23 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 172 683 issued on May 8 2012 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 751 006 filed Dec. 31 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 762 885 issued Jul. 27 2010 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 433 523 filed Nov. 3 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 758 755 issued Jul. 6 2004 which is a Continuation In Part of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 040 654 filed Mar. 17 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 007 426 issued Dec. 28 1999 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 746 755 filed on Nov. 14 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 816 918 issued Oct. 6 1998 which are all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention generally relates to a network gaming system and more particularly pertains to a method and system for storing and updating the account information for a plurality of users on a database server.

Traditional gaming environments have conventionally been restricted to bars arcades homes and other public and private establishments. Outside such gaming environments players have been commonly restricted to playing board games local computer games TV supported video games etc. However with the widespread use of standardized large scale wide area networks such as the Internet and World Wide Web in recent years players of video and computer games at home are offered an environment to access numerous games and compete with each other. A player can connect a home computer video game console set top box or other device to the Internet using telephone lines cable TV lines or other connections to the home. The player can thus play games offered to the player from a remote server or other source. The player can also compete or otherwise interact in a game with hundreds or even thousands of other players who are also connected to the Internet.

However although a wide array of options are available for home game players players typically cannot play games from home to receive prizes. Players may often desire to receive a prize after playing a game or participating in a tournament but no standardized prize redemption system is provided to home players. Any administrator of such a prize redemption system faces problems when attempting to organize ticket winnings and offer prizes at ticket costs adjusted for a desired profitability.

One problem with the network games of the prior art is that maintaining a redemption system can be very involving for an entity which maintains a web site to the point of being burdensome. For example operators must maintain a system of prize tracking and delivery for a large pool of users. Requiring even greater maintenance is the setting and adjustment of prize credit costs or prices of the prizes. The operator must determine how many prize credits are awarded on average by each game on the network and then determine the price of each prize in terms of prize credits and in view of a desired profitability level.

There is thus a need for an effective system of enabling prize redemption with games which are distributed executed and managed over a wide area network.

This summary is provided to describe certain aspects of embodiments of the invention. It is not intended to show the essential features of the invention nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claims.

The invention includes a method for providing a multi player game system in which a user at a client interacts in a game accessible over a wide area network by a plurality of users. The method comprises receiving identification information associated with the user at a first server retrieving account information associated with the user from a second server sending at least a portion of the account information to the client of the user receiving updates from the client at the first server for updating the information associated with the user on the second server.

The invention includes a method for providing a network gaming system. The method comprises receiving an identification of a user at a server retrieving a number of units associated with the user providing the number of units to a game client of the user updating the number of units associated with the user based on a game activity of the user receiving a request for at least one item that can be obtained by the user within the game system and deducting from the number of units a specified number of units responsive to the step of receiving a request.

The invention includes a network gaming system. The system comprises at least one database server accessible through a wide area network for storing account information for each of the plurality of users wherein said at least one database server is configured for communicating with at least one game server supporting the at least one game on a client wherein the at least one database server is configured to provide at least a portion of the account information to the game server upon receiving a user identification from the at least one game server and wherein the account information is updated by the at least one database server upon receiving an update from the game server either during or after completion of a game play by one of said plurality of users.

In use a user identification code is received by the prize database server from the game apparatuses that corresponds to the user. After play of a game is complete an indication of an outcome of the game is also received by the prize database server . The prize database server also tracks a number of prize credits awarded the user based on the outcome of the present game and or previous games. Further the prize database server functions to allow redemption of the prize credits for a prize.

With continuing reference to at least some of the game apparatuses include dedicated game units which are commonly used in combination with televisions or are portable in nature for the sole purpose of playing various games. Such dedicated game units may include a NINTENDO SEGA or SONY game unit or a game implemented on a personal digital assistant such as a PALM PILOT.

In one embodiment the dedicated game units each include a modem to connect with the wide area network for communication purposes. In the alternative the dedicated game units may each include a removable cartridge which may or may not contain one or more specific games and also allow storage of information i.e. an identification code and an indication of an outcome of the game. Such cartridges may further be adapted for being releasably received in a specially adapted port such as a DEXDRIVE connected to a computer which is in turn connectable with the wide area network for communication purposes. In the case of a personal digital assistant such as a PALM PILOT a HOTSYNC module may be used to communicate information with the computer.

In another embodiment at least some of the game apparatuses include desktop or laptop computers each having a modem to connect with the wide area network for communication purposes. In still yet another embodiment at least some of the game apparatuses include servers for allowing communication with a plurality of computers via the wide area network .

As an option some of the game apparatuses may include stand alone units capable of printing prize credits in the form of tickets coupons magnetically readable cards cards with barcodes or any other type of smart card which may be redeemable at the site of the game apparatus. More information on such game apparatuses may be had by reference to U.S. Pat. No. 5 292 127 by Kelly et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. It should be noted that the various aforementioned game apparatuses may be used in any combination.

Player input typically includes game commands provided by controlling devices such as buttons keyboard dials joystick controls touch screen track ball mouse gun device steering wheel foot pedals speech input through a microphone or any other input used in playing a game and providing selections. For example the player can move a joystick to control a graphical object displayed on a video screen. Each type of user input can provide a particular game command to the computer and the computer interprets the commands and influences game states and game events in the game process accordingly.

With continuing reference to the computer receives signals and commands from the player input devices and translates interprets those signals and commands so that the game process can be updated. The computer preferably includes a microprocessor random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and input output I O . Microprocessor can be any processor or controller with features sufficient to control the game apparatus. For example a suitable microprocessor for many mechanical game applications is the Intel 8031 8 bit microprocessor which includes eight data lines and sixteen address lines. Alternatively more powerful microprocessors such as Pentium class Power PC class microprocessors or specialized graphical or digital signal processors can be used. Microprocessor executes a process described by software instructions stored in memory which recognizes a game command from player input devices . The software instructions can be stored in a computer readable medium which by way of example includes memory such as RAM and ROM magnetic disks magnetic tape optically readable media such as CD ROMs semiconductor memory such as memory chips or PCMCIA cards etc. In each case the medium may take the form of a portable item such as a small disk diskette cassette memory module etc. or it may take the form of a relatively larger or immobile item such as a hard disk drive.

Microprocessor is coupled to RAM by a data D address A control C bus to permit the use of the RAM for scratch pad memory and other functions during a game process. ROM is preferably an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM that contains the start up instructions and operating system for the microprocessor . Methods for coupling RAM and ROM to the microprocessor by bus including data address and control lines are well known to those skilled in the art.

I O includes buffers drivers ports registers and other analog and or digital circuitry to interface inputs and outputs with the bus . Game output devices and input devices can be coupled to I O . For example a display screen can be coupled to I O so that the microprocessor or another video processor can control the display of images on the display screen as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The computer can include plug in interface cards such as video cards 3 D graphics cards sound cards controller cards etc. Standard peripherals can be coupled to the I O as input devices and output devices such as a CD ROM drive storage device floppy disk drive hard disk drive etc. PCMCIA card printer stylus and tablet microphone for voice recognition camera or communication device.

With continuing reference to the user is notified of any prize credits that may have resulted from the play of the game as indicated in operation . Thereafter in operation the user may again use the game apparatus to access the prize database server which may or may not be separate from the game server. An account of the user is then checked to verify a current number of prize credits available. See operation . Then in operation the game database orders any prizes selected by the user from a prize vendor. The prize is then delivered to the user in operation . In the case where a prize credit that represents a specific prize is awarded in operation the prize database server does not require any selection prior to ordering in operation .

Any monetary gain resulting from the method of the present invention may be distributed in various ways. For example an owner of a hosting web site may be compensated for providing access to the games via the hosting web site. Note operation . Further a developer of the games may be compensated in operation . The prize vendor may also receive funds for cost of prizes shipping handling etc. in operation .

In use a user interface i.e. web page of a hosting web site allows access to a game interface via the game settings cartridge of the server . In contrast to operation of the method of the present alternate method does not require the user to log on or purchase credits. Instead funding is afforded by advertising that is provided during the course of the game by way of the advertising cartridge . Upon winning a number of prize credits the user is then forwarded to a prize redemption interface governed by the prize redemption cartridge .

When access is gained to the prize redemption interface the user is required to log on via a log on interface unless of course the user is already logged on. Thereafter a confirmation interface is displayed for indicating that the prize has been delivered. As an option a cookie may be placed on the computer of the user in operation .

To accomplish this the prize database server is capable of connecting to the game apparatuses via a wide area network i.e. the Internet or any other communication system in operation . Upon the connection being established the prize database server receives a user identification code from the game apparatuses that corresponds to the user in operation . Also received is an indication of an outcome of a game or games upon the user playing the game s . Note operation . The prize database server also tracks a number of prize credits awarded the user based on the outcome of the game in addition to allowing redemption of the prize credits for a prize as indicated in operations and respectively.

Also shown is server side software . The server side software is shown to include a secure credit card transaction module a shopping module an advertising module a redemption module and a payment server which may be interconnected with any of the game apparatuses via a web server and an associated firewall . A plurality of supporting servers may also be included per the desires of the user.

In order for the process of to be effectively carried out variables or game settings must be transmitted to the game apparatuses from the server and further identification codes and game outcomes must be transmitted to the server from the game apparatuses.

Examples of the game settings include a table of prize credits awarded in terms of various game outcomes possible on the game. For instance 10 prize credits may be awarded for every 1000 points earned during play of the game. Yet another example of game settings may include the enabling or disabling of various features of the game based on the geographic location of the user as indicated by the identification code. It should be noted that the transmission of the identification codes and game outcomes to the game server is critical for tracking the prize credits awarded a user when prize redemption is desired. Further examples of game settings identification codes and other information that may be exchanged for various purposes will be set forth hereinafter in greater detail.

To accomplish the foregoing exchange of information the activator module is adapted to interface with the game module and request information from the communicator module as needed. At the time of each request the activator module identifies the game module to the communicator module for purposes that will soon become apparent later. As such the activator module is specifically tailored for use with the corresponding game. For security purposes additional information relative to the game developer may be stored on the game server.

The communicator module in turn make numerous calls for information from the server. Such calls are made over the modem. In order to accommodate situations where a connection can not be made with the game server or a connection is lost temporarily various features are afforded. First upon the receipt of information from the server resulting from a call such information is stored in internal storage which may constitute any type of memory. As such when a connection to the server can not be made the game settings may be retrieved directly from the internal storage. Further the communicator module may be adapted to manually or automatically connect with the server periodically or on any other time frame for synchronization purposes.

Since the present invention may be used with many types of games and communication with the game server may some times be compromised it is preferred that a minimum amount of calculations be performed on the game apparatus itself. Instead information is received from the game apparatus by way of the API calculated by the game server and transmitted back to the game apparatus. Further the communicator module may be capable of requesting core assets from the game server for storage on the client computer. Such core assets may be used universally with any type of game and include universal graphics playing cards sound affects mah jongg tiles sound effects graphics etc. The core assets would only need to be downloaded once and may be updated deleted or supplemented as needed.

The calls that may be executed by the API in order to communicate necessary information will now be discussed. Such function may actually include a plurality of URL based calls. The calls may correctly format the data connect to the server send information to the game server using secure sockets layer SSL and then correctly format the return code and any data that was returned to it from the server. The communication layer is responsible for formatting parameters and for maintaining as many internal variables as possible. This shields the game module from continuously having to pass the same parameters. The game module is responsible however for appropriately handling return codes returned from the server.

getGameSettings This function takes a few different forms. First if it is called from a Java applet game then it is safe to assume the player is connected to a network i.e. the Internet in which case it is safe to retrieve game settings from the game server regardless if the game is being played in a demonstration play for fun mode or a pay to play mode. Any other kind of game requires default game settings to be used if in the demonstration mode. Any game in the pay to play mode assumes it is safe to query the server to get game settings. The data is specific to each game and is returned in the form of name value pairs e.g. PointsLevel1 10 . The game apparatus is responsible for extracting the value for each known piece of data. This call is also used to validate the game version. Games are not allowed to continue if they are not the latest version. This helps to ensure reliable redemption play.

beginGame The present call may or may not be available in games played in the demonstration mode. With this call the server is given the number of credits to be played and attempts to debit the player s account. Prior to doing so however the server determines whether the player has any specific business rules that prevent him from playing. When the player has been successfully validated and his account has been debited the server adds a row to a table in a database indicating that he has started the game and then returns the appropriate return code to the game apparatus.

endGame The present call may or may not be available in games played in the demonstration mode. The present call is sent to the prize database server to provide game data including end time and score. This data is used to update the database row that was added when the game was started. The score is fed into the points to prize credits conversion table to determine if any award should be given. The present call also prompts the prize credits in the player s account to be appropriately changed.

getNextInstaPrizes The present call may or may not be available in games played in the demonstration mode. The present call is sent to the prize database server to obtain a description and unique prize ID of the next specific prize. The redemption engine on the server generates this data. All next specific prizes are predetermined based on the previous prize and reside locally on the game apparatus. The server notes the prize ID in order to validate against the wonInstaPrize call.

wonInstaPrize The present call may or may not be available in games played in the demonstration mode. The present call is used when a specific prize is won at which time the prize ID of the specific prize is sent to the server for validation within the redemption cartridge. This affects at least one of three occurrences If game credits were won such game credits are added to the account of the player. If prize credits were won such prize credits are added to the account of the player. If merchandise has been won such merchandise is added to the player s shopping cart. Procurement is delayed until the player checks out.

getAvailableCredits The present call may or may not be available in games played in the demonstration mode. In use this call is used prior to each game as a way of displaying to the player a number of credits that are available.

canPlay The present call may or may not be available in games played in the demonstration mode. This call serves as a separate function to check business rules preventing game play parental controls bad account available credit etc. 

getAdvertisements This call may be available in the demonstration mode depending upon the game platform. The present call serves to retrieve the latest advertisements which are to be played. This may be accomplished by calling the advertisement in the form of an advertisement ID and checking to see if the appropriate advertisement has already been downloaded. If the appropriate advertisement has not already been downloaded default advertisements are used that were downloaded previously during which downloading begins to obtain the latest advertisements while the player is playing the game or browsing a related site.

postGameStatus The present call sets a persistent game state in the event of a failure of the game apparatus connection loss etc.

getErrors The present call retrieves any error information that was generated during use of the game apparatus.

In terms of security the various variables that are passed may be named in a counter intuitive obfuscated manner. For example a variable relating to a personal identification code may be named prize credits awarded. Further digital signing may be employed where feasible. Even if security is breached the present invention inherently prevents significant fraud since the value of prize credits awarded is always a fraction of the value of game credits required to play the game. In addition to the foregoing features when requests start flooding the server from one particular location the present invention may lock out all future requests from that location.

For example in demonstration mode the purchase game credits operation is not necessary and the awarding prizes and prize redemption operations and are optional. Further the player registration operation is only necessary if the prize redemption operation is executed. Still yet the select games operation is required only if multiple games exist and the error handling operation is optional.

When registration is required unregistered players are provided a registration link in operation . Such link affects the display of an interface such as a web page which prompts the user to create a personal user name or user identification code and a password. Note operation . Further the registration interface requires entry of minimal necessary information such as a name and an e mail address. Optional information such as demographics game preferences etc. may also be entered if desired by the user. It is then determined if the necessary information has been entered and is complete in decision . Upon entry of at least the necessary information a confirmation may be sent to the user in operation .

At anytime the user may update any of the foregoing profile information. As an option the user may be precluded from altering the user identification code for security purposes. As a further option a hint may be provided in order to facilitate remembering the user identification code and or the password.

In one embodiment a person registering or a primary account holder may establish a plurality of secondary accounts for secondary account holders. Such feature allows a parent to assume a primary account holder role and control various aspects of the secondary account holders who may include children of the parent. Examples of aspects which may be varied independently or simultaneously for each player include a duration or specific range of time a secondary account holder may play games a dollar amount of game credits that can be purchased in a specified amount of time and or the types of games that may be played. The control of the type of game permitted to be played may be based on a current game industries rating system.

In addition to limiting the ability of the secondary account holders to use the present invention the primary account holders are also given exclusive authority to modify and or delete a current account and transfer game credits prize credits and prizes to and from the various secondary accounts. This allows pooling of prize credits for obtaining desired prizes etc. In order to add secondary accounts a primary account holder may be required to enter at least one valid credit card number as a way to establish eligibility. It should be noted that a credit card may not be used to create two separate main accounts during use of the present invention. Further game credits prize credits and prizes may not be transferred between main account holders to inhibit fraud.

The process of begins by determining whether the player is registered in decision . If not the player registration operation see is executed. Once it is ascertained that registration is complete the purchase of the game credits is permitted in operation .

Upon purchase the game credits are automatically stored under the corresponding account in operation . The system may have the capability to provide a non linear purchasing scale giving players incentives to purchase larger quantities of credits at a lower per unit cost. For example when purchasing credits the player might be offered game credits for 1.00 30 game credits for 2.50 60 game credits for 4.75 and 120 games for 8.50.

While the prize database server handles all of dollar to game credit conversion the conversion factors may be also dictated by managers of the game apparatuses. When a player makes a purchase request the prize database server validates the account and check business rules to verify that the user is qualified to make the purchase. In the event that a user is either restricted by parental controls or his or her account has been flagged the user may be notified of such with the appropriate messages on how to correct the situation i.e. contacting support personnel.

The prize database server may also be designed to support incentive suppliers. Entities which desire to provide free game plays to their customers may present various customers with a URL and a key code to be able to use a predetermined amount of game credits. The customer or user would then go to the URL enter the key code and receive a predetermined number of free game credits. In the present embodiment the incentive supplier would be responsible for all costs related to the key codes that are distributed.

In operation of a selection of a game to be played occurs. Two optional types of games that are available include games played in exchange for payment and free games including games played in a demonstration mode. The payment games require the prior execution of operations and of . In the case of free games however player registration in operation may be delayed until prize redemption is required.

The free games may include games supported by Java Applets ShockWave Flash etc. without communication of identification codes or the like. Further free games may be created to entice users to register with the prize database server. It should be noted that free games may award only a limited amount of prize credits if any. As an option the free games may only simulate winning. In any case the user may be required to register before a prize is redeemable after which future prize credits awarded to the registered use may be limited or prevented. Further the free games may be supported by advertising.

Payment games may be supported by Java Applets ShockWave Flash Windows95 98 2000 macros etc. It is imperative that it is understood that payment games may include any type of advertising supported game or a game that is supported by any type of compensation scheme. In one embodiment the payment games may be played in a tournament mode. Ideally tournament games present all tournament players with the same exact game settings so that all players have the same odds. In one type of tournament game a duration type game a variable number of games are to be played in a fixed amount of time.

In each of the previous embodiments the games may include a game of skill that requires a predetermined goal task or objective for a game to be accomplished in a skilful manner such that an outcome of the game is determined primarily by the amount of skill of the player. The greater the player s skill the closer or more easily a desired goal in the game can be reached by the player. Points associated with the predetermined goals or objectives can be added to a game score such that a higher game score on average indicates a greater amount of skill by the player. In the alternative the games may include a game of chance where the outcome of the game is determined primarily on chance. It should be noted that games of chance may be restricted based on an age of the user and or a geographic location where the user resides.

As an option the prize or any other feature associated with the present invention may be determined based on any of the foregoing identification codes. Further other aspects of the present invention may be specifically tailored for a particular profile. For example the cost of game credits a prize a name a number or value of the prize credits awarded advertising sounds graphics and or limited access may be altered based on any of the aforementioned identifiers. In each of the foregoing cases such tailored aspects may be handled by the game server.

One objective of the use of identifiers is to allow for partnerships especially between the prize database server and other game servers. One game server for example may allow all its players to play a specific game for free thus modifying the value of credits but only for that particular site. Accordingly each game server may have settings specific to that site and thus when a player launches a game the prize database server must know the originating location of the game in order to return the appropriate game settings. In addition players will be able to register with the prize database server at partner game servers or sites. Further the interfaces provided by the prize database server may be modified in accordance with the interface of the partner game servers. This creates the perception that a user is still interfacing with the partner game server when actually he or she is interfacing with the prize database server. As an option activity for all players may be maintained for each of the game servers as a way to track site traffic and thus be able to pay commissions of the game credits revenue sale advertising and collect advertising revenue.

In addition to facilitating partnerships the identifiers may be used to control the experiences of particular users. As mentioned earlier an age of the user or account status i.e. secondary account holder may affect the user s ability to perform various functions of the present invention. Further the user identification code may be used to indicate a location of the user. This may be accomplished by referencing registration information of the user or tracking an IP address by which the user has gained access to the server. Given the identity of such geographic location the present invention may preclude access to certain games in accordance with local jurisdiction laws. This may be particularly beneficial in the case of games of chance as discussed hereinabove. It should be noted that alternate game settings may be changed for each particular jurisdiction.

Upon the receipt of the identification codes it is then determined in decision whether a current version of the game is present and valid. If the current version is unacceptable an installer may be executed in operation . Such installer may be downloaded from the prize database server and subsequently executed on the game apparatus.

When it is verified that the current version of the game on the game apparatus is valid advertisement software may be executed. Prior to execution however the advertisement software may be identified in operation after which it is determined in decision whether a version of the advertisement software is present and valid. If not the advertisement is updated in operation by downloading etc. Finally the game is executed in operation .

Advertising software may be executed between or during games. Such advertisements can include still shots animation movies sound etc. Advertisements sponsored by companies prize providers game providers or other sources can be displayed and in another aspect of the present invention can be directly related to prize or game information. For example a sponsor may have contributed to prizes available to players on the advertising game apparatus so that the advertisement has a direct relation to prizes and can thus increase the effectiveness of such advertising. A sponsor might also supply free games for players in exchange for displaying advertisements or may simply pay the game or prize database server for advertising time. Still yet a player can play an advertiser sponsored game and directly win an advertiser s prize if a task is accomplished. Thus using the linked advertising and prize redemption system disclosed herein multiple revenue streams from advertisers are offered to a game operator and also offer the sponsors more effective advertising.

Since awarding game or prize credits in response to connection loss may provide an incentive for intended connection loss during game play certain precautions are necessary. In one embodiment a method may be implemented for tracking players who regularly drop connections. The software on the game apparatus i.e. the communicator module may try to solve the problem when communication is re established but if it cannot fix the problem the player may be given the opportunity to play the game again for free as long as they have not exceeded a predetermined maximum number of free game or prize credits. Such predetermined maximum number of free games may be established in predetermined time intervals i.e. 10 credits month to limit the negative affects of fraud.

In the event that a user has exceeded the predetermined maximum number of free games in decision the user may be notified and given a customer service number to call in operation . Customer service will have the ability to give the user some more credits on a discretionary basis. Once connection has been re established the communicator module will update the server with any data cached prior to the connection loss.

In the awarding prizes operation of prizes of various types may be awarded. The term prize as used herein is intended to generically refer to any merchandise souvenir food item game credits or other physical goods or services which can be offered to players of redemption games and which may have value other than as a medium of exchange for use in the gaming environment. A radio stuffed animal toy model coupon for monetary value outside the gaming environment gift certificate cash and free games to be played on game apparatus are all examples of prizes. A prize might also be a promotional coupon or cash prizes which can encourage players to return to the current gaming environment more quickly in the future.

 Prize credits differ from a prize since they can be used to redeem other types of prizes. In one embodiment the prize credits that are awarded represent a type of universal currency that may be used for prize redemption purposes. In use prizes may be made available for various amounts of the universal prize credits.

The amount of prize credits awarded to the player may be based upon a game score or other result of a game process. In addition special or progressive goals may be achieved by the player to win an additional or specified number of universal prize credits. In the preferred embodiment of the redemption system prize credits are used as a medium of conversion from game score to prize value.

As an option specific prize credits may be awarded which may be redeemed for specific prizes awarded to the user. Specific prize credits are to be distinguished from the universal credits described above. A specific prize or instant prize as referred to herein is a particular prize or type of prize that a player can be directly and immediately awarded and in most cases can immediately receive due to a particular winning result on a game apparatus. A specific prize credit as referred to herein is thus an electronic voucher that can be exchanged for the specific prize only.

The prize credits as described hereinabove may be awarded by any one of various methods. In the case of the specific prize credit the same may be downloaded prior to beginning play of the game. This prevents complications if a connection with the prize database server is lost during play. Further such feature allows the player to know the prize s at stake prior to play for legal purposes and also allows the specific prize credit to be immediately displayed upon being awarded without delay due to downloading. As an option the specific prize credit may even be displayed during play prior to being awarded for enticement purposes.

In another embodiment an ordered list of specific prize credits may be displayed during play. Ideally such list of specific prize credits may be generated based on business rules on a periodic i.e. 24 hours basis. Such business rules may include a current total number of specific prize credits a current player has been rewarded in the past a desired payout percentage a current average number of game credits that the current player spends per game a current total number of specific prize credits available and a value of game credit. It should be noted that the foregoing business rules may vary based on other factors such as a web site through which the game was accessed a profile of the player etc. If such information is not available for any reason the present invention may employ default values to generate the appropriate specific prize credits. Additional information on such business rules may be had by reference to U.S. Pat. No. 5 292 127 by Kelly et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

In yet another embodiment a frenzy is afforded by listing a plurality of specific prize credits along with a current number of such specific prize credits that are remaining or have not yet been awarded. Rules governing how the specific prize credits are awarded in the present mode are similar to those discussed previously. However the types and number of specific prize credits awarded are predetermined. It should be noted that when the quantity of any given specific prize credits reaches zero such specific prize credit may remain on the list but will graphically indicate that it is no longer available.

As an option the previous embodiment may be modified by increasing the variety and or number of specific prize credits under certain circumstances. This number may be increased based on the amount of times a particular game is played the number of times that different games are played or by achieving a game related goal thus affording a frenzy type situation.

In still yet another embodiment the prize credits may be awarded in a progressive manner. In such embodiment each user contributes to a collective progressive pool. The progressive pool for example can be incremented with every game credit spent on any game apparatus incremented based on an amount of advertisement impressions that are served ideal for when advertiser is paying or supporting the progressive score automatically incremented over time at regular or random intervals manually incremented by an operator of the prize database server calculated in real time etc. The progressive pool is accumulated from the current and previous games that have been played on any linked game apparatus. In one embodiment the increment rate of the progressive pool can be determined independent of the number of players playing or advertisements viewed.

The first player that achieves a predetermined progressive goal on any of the linked game apparatuses wins the progressive prize credits pool where the progressive amount of prize credits is added to that player s prize credits count. It should be noted that a progressive bonus number of prize credits may also be awarded in lieu of a bonus score thereby avoiding the need for conversion. Once the progressive bonus score is won the process is restarted at a default value for continued play. Progressive goals scores and bonus apparatuses are described in additional detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 292 127 by Kelly et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As shown in prior to the beginning of each game information including a current progressive prize credit or score amount is retrieved along with a current predetermined increment rate from the server in operations and . During use the progressive prize credit or score amount is periodically incremented at the increment rate in operation for the duration of the game.

During the course of the game the current prize credit or score amount may be displayed as indicated in operation . If the player achieves the high score or some other related goal all of the current progressive prize pool or score amount is awarded the user. At the end of the game in operation information including the current prize credit or score amount is sent to a host server for redemption purposes. By downloading both an increment rate and a progressive prize credit or score amount communication with the server need only be established once at the beginning of the game.

In one embodiment a particular method may be used to calculate a dynamic progressive score increment rate during the course of the game. In such embodiment a calculation is made periodically to determine the current increment rate which is in turn used to calculate the current progressive pool that is to be displayed. In one embodiment such calculation may be carried out every 2 minutes. It should be noted that the increment rate reflects the amount of time required for the progressive prize credit pool to be incremented by one prize credit e.g. a prize credit is incremented every 1.824 seconds.

To calculate the current increment rate a current total number of games played is first determined. The current total number of games increments each time a game is begun at a certain site on the network and in a certain mode i.e. progressive mode tournament etc. Next a previous total number of games is subtracted from the current total number which of course will be larger. The previous total number of games is the total number of games that was retrieved when the increment rate was last calculated. Thereafter a difference between the current total number of games played and the previous total number of games played is multiplied by a prize credit fraction that determines a desired pay out of the progressive game thus rendering a prize credit increment product.

Next an amount of time that has elapsed since the last calculation of the increment rate is determined by subtracting a last counter read time from a current time. This elapsed time is then converted into milliseconds and divided by the prize credit increment product. This renders the current increment rate.

In another embodiment a client computer may store a time when the player achieves the high score or other related goal. Subsequently upon reconnection with the host server information including such time may be communicated thereto. This time may then be used in conjunction with tables on the host server that have different progressive scores based on different times and dates. For example as time progresses from a designated start time of the progressive scoring the amount of the awarded progressive score increases.

Further information including a cap or maximum progressive score may be retrieved from the host server prior to the game or any other time to prevent such score from exceeding a predetermined amount. In the alternative such information may be stored and utilized on the host server. These features aid in preventing fraudulent activity.

As an option the games may be played in a tournament type fashion. During tournament play various user may play against each other. To ensure fairness various aspects of the games played may be maintained constant. For example in the case of card games the electronic virtual playing deck may be made to deliver similar results in the games of each of the players. To enhance tournament play top scores of tournament players may be tracked over a period of time for the purpose of awarding a particular prize pool or a portion thereof to the highest score etc. More information on tournament play may be had by reference to U.S. Pat. No. 5 292 127 by Kelly et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

After the play of game s during a tournament an indication of an outcome i.e. score of at least one game played by each of the players is then received in operation . Such outcome may be manually sent by the player or automatically sent. Based on a sum of the outcomes of the games of all of the players a total amount of prize credits or prizes is determined in operation . It should be noted that the game apparatuses are already equipped with the ability to convert between outcomes of the games and a number of appropriate prize credits or prizes. Such ability is necessary for the games to be played during non tournament play.

Subsequently a first portion of the total amount of prize credits or prizes is partitioned for payment for participation in the tournament and a second portion of the total amount of prize credits or prizes is awarded to one or more winning players based on the outcome of the at least one game thereof. Note operations and . As an option a first predetermined part of the second portion may be allocated for a first winner a second predetermined part of the second portion may be allocated for a second winner and so on.

In one embodiment at least one winning player may be indicated on a list accessible on a site on the network. Such list may be updated upon receiving an indication of an outcome of at least one game played by another one of the players. This process may continue until all of the outcomes are received. As an option a notice may be sent to at least one player each time the list is updated. Such notice i.e. e mail may be given only to those players whose winnings are affected or anybody desired.

In another embodiment the total amount of prize credits or prizes may be determined by receiving a total sum of outcomes of the games for each of the players. Such total sum may then be divided by a number of the games played by each player. Such process renders an average outcome value per game for each player. The total amount of prize credits or prizes may be then determined based on a sum of the average values of the players. For additional incentive purposes each of the players may be awarded a predetermined number of prize credits or prizes irrespective of an outcome of the games.

It should be noted that the game experience of each of the players may be set to be the same. Further the network gaming system may tailor the experience upon each game. In a trivia game example the network gaming system may track each time a tournament trivia game is played. Thereafter each consecutive time the trivia game is played a different line of questions may be provided. In operation all players in the tournament may be given the same set of questions depending on whether it is their first second third etc. entry. After the database of questions is exhausted the questions may be wrapped back around to the first set of questions.

Once the prize redemption interface page or shopping center has been accessed the user is required to register in operation see if it is determined that he or she is not already registered in decision . After an identity of the user is verified selection of a desired prize may be executed in operation . In the case where the prize credit is a specific prize credit which corresponds with an undesired prize the user may have the option of replacing the specific prize credit with universal prize credits. Upon selection of the desired prize shipping information may be verified in operation . Subsequently the prize may be delivered by any capable means and the account of the user may be adjusted to reflect the current available prize credits accordingly. Note operation . It should be noted that user registration may not be required for merely browsing the prize redemption interface page.

In an alternate embodiment a user may elect for the prize database server to automatically deliver a prize corresponding to any specific prize credit awarded. In such case the prize database server may use the player s default account settings for shipping. During the course of delivery the users may receive emails indicating that a delivery has been confirmed and also when the prize is to be shipped. As an option the user may be notified of a back order.

In addition to the foregoing capabilities the prize redemption interface page and prize database server may include a virtual shopping cart function a checkout capability shipping address modification module etc. If the virtual shopping cart function is employed any specific prize credit that is awarded may be immediately deposited therein. At any desired time prizes depicted on the prize redemption interface page may be added and removed. Optionally the prize redemption interface page may display advertisements notification of specials legal disclaimers etc.

The frame is also equipped with links including a select game link for allowing selection of a game to play and buy credits links for purchasing additional game credits. Upon selection of either the select game link or the buy credits links both the user identification code and the site identification code is transmitted to the prize database server for the reasons set forth earlier. Shop links are also provided for linking to the prize redemption user interface of the prize database server. Upon selection of one of the shop links a site identification code is transmitted in order to allow the prize redemption user interface to be equipped with specifically tailored insignias and other look and feel features.

With continuing reference to a start button may be included to execute the game that is currently selected. A display bar may also be shown for advertisement informative or any other purposes. Further a member link and a help link may be included for providing various miscellaneous services. Positioned in the frame is a game interface that is to be executed. Ideally the game is configured with dynamic HTML.

As shown in the advertisement feedback system of the present invention stores user profiles of a plurality of users of a network system in operation . After a user logs onto the network system in operation an advertisement by a sponsor of the network system is displayed on a visual display of the particular user in operation .

In response to an action by the user the network system sends the particular user s profile to the sponsor. Note operation . The user profile may contain a great deal of previously collected information. Thus this system allows a network system provider to strategically pass on a wealth of marketing information of the users of the network system. As an option the method by which the marketing information is delivered may be selected by the user and may include modes of communication such as electronic mail ground mail etc. This selection may be effected during log on registration or at any other time. Also the user may be connected to a site on the network associated with the advertisers upon a user selecting or clicking on the advertisement. If the marketing information is sent by a network provider the advertiser may be informed of the delivery of the appropriate information.

The advertisement may relate to an offered prize or a particular game capable of being played on the network gaming system. As an option in this network gaming system embodiment the user profile of the user may be sent to the advertiser as a result of the user being awarded a prize.

In one embodiment the user action may occur while the advertisement is being displayed. As one option for this embodiment the user action may comprise the user actually selecting the displayed advertisement. This way the provider has a way to identify immediate user interest in a particular advertisement. With such an embodiment the network system provider is able to easily relay user interest in a particular sponsor at the time that the user actually experiences the sponsor s advertisement. This embodiment also provides a way for a network system provider to determine which advertisements their users are more interested in. With this information the provider is then able to arrange and time the display of advertisements in an manner to optimize the effectiveness of the advertisements towards the users of the network system.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

