---

title: Dynamic hosting shopping cart
abstract: According to an embodiment, a system comprises a remote server adapted to interact with a buyer device and one or more other servers over a network, wherein the remote server is adapted to implement a shopping cart. The system also comprises one or more processors, and one or more memories adapted to store a plurality of machine-readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors are adapted to cause the system to receive, at the remote server, first transaction information from the buyer device through the shopping cart, wherein the first transaction information comprises a transaction request from a first seller; receive, at the remote server, second transaction information from the buyer device through the shopping cart, wherein the second transaction information comprises a transaction request from a second seller; and process the first and second transaction information through the shopping cart for the first and second seller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756108&OS=08756108&RS=08756108
owner: Ebay Inc.
number: 08756108
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120409
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 648 562 filed on Dec. 29 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to electronic commerce and more particularly to a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart for on line transactions.

In on line financial transactions buyers search for and purchase products and services through electronic communications with on line sellers over electronic networks such as the Internet. During the course of these transactions buyers may provide payment in various ways including for example credit cards electronic fund transfers and other payment techniques offered by on line payment providers.

Typically when shopping on line at a particular seller s website buyers select items to purchase by clicking on a link for a specific item and the selected items are placed on reserve in some type of virtual shopping cart while the buyer may continue to browse the particular seller s website. The virtual shopping cart typically allows buyers to add or delete products specify attributes such as color quantity size and the like and purchase products contained within the cart. When a buyer changes or updates data in the virtual shopping cart for example updates the color or quantity of an item the updated data is sent to a server and a response is reported through a reload of the seller s webpage. If more updated data is sent as part of an order the webpage reloads or refreshes again. At a minimum this obtrusive behavior can be tedious and inconvenient because the buyer might need to toggle back and forth between multiple on line pages or screens. This may lead to the potential buyer cancelling or abandoning of the transaction resulting in loss of sales for the seller.

As will be further described herein in relation to various embodiments systems and methods are provided for a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart DHSC for on line transactions wherein a widget for example a JavaScript transformable widget may be embedded or floated above a seller s website to communicate with a remote server keep track of transaction information such as orders for particular items and offer checkout across all enabled pages of a seller s domain or other enabled domains cross domain . Data is handled in an unobtrusive dynamic way without the need for reloading or refreshing of the seller s web pages.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure a system comprises a remote server adapted to interact with a buyer device and one or more other servers over a network wherein the remote server is adapted to implement a shopping cart. The system also comprises one or more processors and one or more memories adapted to store a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by the one or more processors are adapted to cause the system to receive at the remote server first transaction information from the buyer device through the shopping cart wherein the first transaction information comprises a transaction request from a first seller receive at the remote server second transaction information from the buyer device through the shopping cart wherein the second transaction information comprises a transaction request from a second seller and process the first and second transaction information through the shopping cart for the first and second seller.

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure a method comprises receiving electronically at a processor of a remote location first transaction information from a buyer device through a shopping cart wherein the first transaction information comprises a transaction request from a first seller. The method also comprises receiving electronically at the processor second transaction information from the buyer device through the shopping cart wherein the second transaction information comprises a transaction request from a second seller. The method further comprises processing the first and second transaction information through the shopping cart for the first and second seller.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium on which are stored computer readable instructions and when executed by a processor cause the processor to receive first transaction information from a buyer device through a shopping cart wherein the first transaction information comprises a transaction request from a first seller receive second transaction information from the buyer device through the shopping cart wherein the second transaction information comprises a transaction request from a second seller and process the first and second transaction information through the shopping cart for the first and second seller.

These and other features and advantages of the embodiments of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Exemplary embodiments and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating exemplary embodiments and not for purposes of limiting the same.

In accordance with various embodiments described herein methods and systems provide a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart DHSC at a remote server for on line transactions. A widget associated with the DHSC for example a JavaScript transformable widget may be floated above or embedded in a seller s website. The widget may appear in the form of for example a button a link or the like on top of each page of the seller s website. The widget monitors a buyer s order sending related data to the remote server. The remote server is configured to communicate with the widget keeping track of transaction information or data including buyer orders and offer checkout across all enabled pages of the seller s website seller s domain or other enabled domains cross domain . Thus transaction information or data is handled in an unobtrusive dynamic way without the need for reloading or refreshing of web pages.

The Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure may be provided with a Hosted Payment Page HPP in one package facilitating online transactions where dynamic technology cannot be presented to the buyer. In one or more embodiments the remote server used to provide the DHSC and HPP may be implemented for example by a seller server operated by the seller or by a third party server. In one embodiment the remote server may be implemented by a payment service provider such as PAYPAL Inc. or EBAY Inc. of San Jose Calif.

Buyer device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example buyer device may be implemented as a personal computer mobile device such as a cell phone or a laptop of buyer in communication with network . Buyer device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a buyer interface to permit buyer to browse information available over network . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over the Internet.

Buyer device may include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing tasks in response to operations selected by buyer . For example toolbar application may display a graphical user interface GUI in connection with browser application . Buyer device may also include a plug in module for facilitating financial transactions over network . In one implementation plug in module comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more seller servers and the payment provider server via network . Buyer is able to access on line seller sites via seller servers to view and select items for purchase and buyer is able to purchase selected items from the one or more sellers by communicating with the payment provider server via a network browser such as a web browser.

Buyer device may include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide additional features available to buyer . For example such other applications may include security applications for implementing buyer side security features programmatic buyer applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications.

Buyer device may include one or more buyer identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of buyer device or various other appropriate identifiers. Buyer identifier may include attributes related to the buyer such as personal information e.g. a user name password photograph image biometric id address phone number etc. and banking information e.g. banking institution credit card issuer buyer account numbers security information etc. . In various implementations buyer identifier may be passed with a buyer purchase request to payment provider server and buyer identifier may be used by payment provider server to associate buyer with a particular buyer account maintained by payment provider server .

The one or more seller servers may be maintained for example by one or more sellers offering various items such as products and or services in exchange for financial payment to be received from buyers such as buyer over network . In this regard each of the one or more seller servers may include a product service operation such as a database forms buttons or links for identifying available products and or services which may be made available to buyer device for viewing and purchase by buyer . Accordingly each of seller servers may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over network to browser application of buyer device . For example buyer may interact with marketplace application through browser application over network to search and view various items products and or services identified in operation .

Seller server may include a checkout application that may implement a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart and may be configured to facilitate online purchase transactions by buyer of products and or services identified by marketplace application . In this regard checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from buyer and or from payment provider server over network . Seller server may provide a widget applet engine for serving widgets to buyer device . Seller server may also include one or more seller identifiers which may be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that particular items are associated with particular sellers. Seller identifier may include attributes related to the seller such as business and banking information. In various implementations seller identifier may be passed with a buyer purchase request to payment provider server when buyer selects an item for purchase and seller identifier may be used by payment provider server to associate a particular item purchased with a particular seller account maintained by payment provider server .

Seller entities having a related seller server may need to establish an account with payment provider server so that payment provider server is able to process transactions having items offered for purchase by the seller entities. When establishing an account the seller entity may need to provide information such as name address phone number etc. and financial information such as banking information account information credit card information payment processing information etc. Seller server may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address . In this regard payment provider server may optionally redirect browser application to an appropriate web page and or seller site of seller server to facilitate purchase of a corresponding item and or service available from seller server .

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment processing for online transactions on behalf of buyer to an operator of seller server . Payment provider server includes a checkout application that may implement a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart and may be configured to facilitate online purchase transactions by buyer . Payment provider server may also include a widget applet engine for serving widgets to buyer device . Payment provider server may further include one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with buyer device and or each of seller servers over network to facilitate the purchase of items products and or services by buyer from seller server . In one example payment provider server is provided by PAYPAL. Inc.

Payment provider server may be configured to maintain a plurality of buyer and seller accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users including buyer and the one or more on line entities associated with seller servers . For example account information may include private financial information of buyer and the seller entities such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions between buyer of buyer device and one or more seller entities associated with seller servers . As such payment application may be configured to interact with the one or more seller servers on behalf of buyer during a transaction with checkout application without requiring buyer to provide account information directly to seller server . Payment provider server may also include a content processing application which may select content from a content database to be provided to buyer . Content processing application may provide appropriate rules based or heuristics based facilities for selecting appropriate content for buyer based on for example buyer identifier buyer account account information information received from seller server or other characteristics.

Payment provider server through checkout application along with payment application buyer seller accounts content processing application and content database may implement a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart as will be described below. Payment provider server based on communications with seller server and buyer device configures a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart that is available to buyer on buyer device throughout all enabled pages of a seller entity s website. The Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart may appear for example as an element a button or a link on each page of the seller entity s website. Furthermore the Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart may appear in different states as will be described in more detail below. Data or transaction information in the Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart is updated with new transaction information without the need for page re loading or refreshing. Then based on information entered by buyer via buyer device buyer may check out from any page of the business entity s website. In an embodiment upon check out the Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart widget in conjunction with either applicable widget applet engine of payment provider server or widget applet engine of seller server communicates information such as order tax and or shipping information to payment provider server and processes information such as payment information to effect a transfer of funds to a suitable seller account .

Although buyer seller transactions are illustrated herein it should be understood that seller seller buyer buyer transactions or other types of transactions may also be implemented according to one or more embodiments described herein.

At block a seller entity also referred to as seller first accesses an on line payment service provider site over a network such as the Internet through a device such as a personal computer PC a laptop or a mobile device using for example a standard HTML interface. The seller then navigates through the site to access technology provided therein for a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart DHSC .

At block DHSC technology provided by the on line payment service provider site allows the seller access to the on line service provider s APIs without the need for a third party solution or developer.

At block the seller may set up a DHSC to be used in connection with for example an online seller s website. The seller may customize the DHSC to look in a way as desired by the seller by using for example Cascading Style Sheets CSS .

In one or more embodiments a customer user consumer or buyer first accesses an on line shopping site via seller server over network such as the Internet through a buyer device such as a personal computer PC a laptop or a mobile device. The buyer then navigates through the site to select desired items for purchase. Typically once an item is shown or identified the buyer is given an option of placing the item into a virtual shopping cart or basket. The virtual shopping cart or basket may be implemented as a Dynamic Hosted Shopping Cart DHSC as set up by an online seller. Desired items are then placed into the shopping cart. After each item is placed in the shopping cart the buyer has the option of checking out e.g. pay for the items and designate shipping or continuing to shop.

At block once an online seller entity also referred to as seller has set up a DHSC provided by a remote location such as payment provider server the seller provides interfaces for items or payment provider interfaces such as buttons links or the like on the seller s website. In this regard the seller may add software implemented for example by JavaScript to the top of each page or screen of the seller s website which enables a widget associated with the DHSC referred to as DHSC widget to be floated above or embedded in each page of the seller s website.

As known in the art a widget may be a stand alone or portable chunk of code that may be installed and executed within any web page by an end user without requiring additional user compilation. A widget may provide relevant information to the user. In one or more embodiments herein a shopping cart and check out data may be provided in a non intrusive manner. A single host software system such as web browser application may run the widget. A widget may be embedded into third party sites for example a seller s website by either the website s administration or by any user on a page where the user has rights of authorship. The contents of widgets are often served by servers other than the original site host enabling dynamic content. For example the DHSC widget may report the current status of a shopping cart by accessing data from the payment provider server seller server and or buyer device. Widgets may be looked upon as stand alone applications or applets implemented using web technologies including JavaScript Adobe Flash HTML and or CSS.

The DHSC widget may be generated on demand by a remote server such as payment provider server or seller server and driven by software such as JavaScript in browser application of buyer device . That is as buyer adds deletes orders products or services or otherwise carries out interactions with seller s web page the DHSC widget is updated according to the current status of the transaction information without reload of the seller web page.

In an embodiment the DHSC widget may be a transformable Document Object Model DOM element. The DOM is a cross platform and language independent convention for representing and interacting with objects in documents such as HTML XHTML and XML documents. The DOM may be manipulated by JavaScript to inspect or modify a web page dynamically. In other words DOM is the way JavaScript sees the containing page and browser state.

The DHSC widget may exist at any time in one of various states for example in one or four states cart mini cart checkout billing and checkout shipping. These four states of the HSC widget will be described in more detail below with respect to B C and D according to one or more embodiments.

At block in any one of the various states the DHSC widget may float on top of or may be embedded in the seller s website following the buyer as the buyer scrolls or jumps from page to page across a domain or seller s website. The DHSC widget facilitates communications with the remote server e.g. payment provider server which keeps track of transaction information including orders for products or services by a buyer from the seller s website. That is the content of the DHSC widget is served by a remote server such as payment provider server enabling dynamic content. For example if buyer desires to update an attribute such as the quantity of an item reserved in the DHSC the contents of the DHSC are dynamically updated and the DHSC widget may report the current status of a shopping cart by accessing data from the remote server e.g. seller server or payment provider server without having to reload the webpage.

Buyer may add delete or update items products or services for an order using the DHSC widget by clicking on standard unencrypted or payment provider interfaces such as payment provider hosted HTML form buttons links or the like. In an embodiment where payment provider interfaces are used the DHSC widget may intercept a form element submit event to the payment provider server making secure requests such as AJAX over HTTPS requests to the remote server e.g. seller server or payment provider server storing the item product or service as part of an order via cookies and server side sessions. When using AJAX technologies the DHSC widget may be updated by asynchronous synchronous HTTP requests responses and or JSON P requests responses with for example a SSL secured server and does not require page loads to add items products or services to the DHSC update the DHSC or process payments except in an embodiment where a payment provider operation such as an Express Checkout payment is selected a redirect to the payment provider server may occur as will be described in more detail below .

AJAX asynchronous JavaScript and XML is a group of interrelated web development techniques used on a client side to create interactive web applications. With Ajax web applications can retrieve data from a server asynchronously in the background without interfering with a display and behavior of an existing page. Thus the use of Ajax techniques allows interactive or dynamic interfaces on web pages. Data may usually be retrieved using the XMLHttpRequest object and or JSON P cross domain techniques. Despite the name the use of JavaScript and XML is not actually required nor do the requests need to be asynchronous.

At block a check out option is offered to buyer when buyer has finished shopping and is ready to check out. Conveniently the check out option is available across all pages of the seller s website in connection with the DHSC.

It should be noted that true cross domain shopping is possible according to one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. In that regard the DHSC widget may be initialized by the seller s page or by buyer from for example a bookmark in the buyer s browser application as opposed to a seller s code . For example if buyer goes to a first seller s website that has payment provider interfaces such as payment provider hosted HTML form buttons links or the like buyer may initiate the DHSC widget and add a product or service found in the first seller s website to the DHSC. Then buyer may continue to browse and go to a second seller s website where buyer may add a second product or service to the DHSC from the second seller s website. Once buyer is ready to check out the buyer may check out products or services found in the first and second seller s websites through the DHSC widget at the same time. Payment provider server may distribute payments to the first and second sellers respectively for example by using an adaptive payment API or other payment aggregation distribution operation.

In one embodiment the DHSC widget may be maintained even if it is removed from a website or domain in which it was originated or initialized. For example if a seller associated with seller server or buyer decides to remove the DHSC widget which may appear as a button a link or the like from a seller s website that incorporates the DHSC widget the DHSC widget may be maintained at the remote server and may be accessed or used in conjunction with other websites or domains.

In an embodiment the buyer or the seller may have the option of removing the DHSC widget so that it does not appear on a seller s website or domain as the buyer views the seller s website or domain via buyer device . For example a buyer device input interface not shown which may be labeled as Remove or with any other appropriate label may be provided on each DHSC widget state to allow the buyer to remove the DHSC widget. Although the buyer may have the option to remove the DHSC widget the DHSC contents associated with the widget may still be maintained at the remote server and may be accessed or used in conjunction with other websites or domains.

In one or more embodiments the buyer may be presented with different checkout options. For example the buyer may check out using a payment operation through a payment provider such as PAYPAL Inc. by selecting or clicking on for example an Express Checkout interface . Alternatively the buyer may check out and execute payment via a transaction card such as a credit or a debit card by selecting or clicking on an interface . Other examples of suitable links may be Pay With PAYPAL Continue Submit Checkout or the like.

In an embodiment where the buyer selects Express Checkout through interface the DHSC widget makes a call to the payment provider server to set up the transaction through the Express Checkout API and redirects the buyer to a payment provider site to log in and execute payment. The buyer is then redirected back to the seller s website where the DHSC widget will initiate the finalization of the transaction using the payment provider.

Alternatively in an embodiment where the buyer selects to pay with a transaction card such as a credit card or a debit card through interface the DHSC widget changes states again to a checkout billing state.

Optionally the buyer may select or click on a Shipping interface for shipping information to be provided. It should be noted that in the sale of digital or downloadable goods no shipping information is required.

Regardless of the way the buyer chooses to check out for example via Express Checkout as may be provided by for example PAYPAL Inc. or with a transaction card the entity hosting the DHSC may send a verification email to both the buyer and the seller detailing the transaction in addition to any standard emails that may be sent by the payment provider.

In the case where a particular software for example Java Script for the DHSC widget is disabled on a buyer s browser such as browser application the buyer may be able to checkout by other standard checkout procedures. In the case of a seller s website that includes payment provider interfaces such as payment provider hosted or non hosted HTML forms buttons links or the like the buyer may check out by standard checkout procedures provided as normal by a particular online payment provider website such as PAYPAL Inc. In this case the DHSC widget does not intercept the form element submit event to the payment provider server. In an embodiment if a seller s website does not use payment provider interfaces and instead provides an interface such as HTML forms buttons links or the like to the remote server e.g. seller server or payment provider server which stores the buyer order data or transaction information then the Hosted Payment Page HPP functionality will be enabled as opposed to DHSC functionality.

A HPP such as HPP shown in the exemplary screen shot of is a one page checkout screen that may be used for third party cart uploads or the like. A payment provider server may provide the HPP. To use a HPP a seller may send transaction information such as an order using payment provider website payment standard variables via a request to a handler script on the remote server e.g. seller server or payment provider server . The handler script in turn will respond by generating a web page containing a version of the DHSC widget such as HPP and will present shopping cart data checkout billing and optionally checkout shipping states to the buyer.

HPP gives the buyer the option to checkout with an interface that may be labeled Express Checkout and may be provided for example by PAYPAL Inc. or by using a transaction card. If the buyer chooses to use a transaction card to check out the buyer is requested to fill in the billing information and optionally the shipping information fields presented therein. Billing information fields may request information such as funding source information name address and other contact information. Shipping information fields may request name address and other contact information which may the same or different than the billing information.

If the buyer chooses to checkout by selecting or clicking on interface that may be labeled as Express Checkout to check out the buyer may access a checkout page of a payment provider such as PAYPAL Inc. Check out interfaces or links may appear after an item is placed in the shopping cart or may be continually visible during the shopping process. Examples of other suitable links may be Pay With PAYPAL Continue Submit Checkout or the like.

Upon selecting interface that may be labeled as Express Checkout the buyer will be redirected to the payment provider server. After login and confirmation of payment the buyer will be redirected to scripts hosted on the remote server e.g. seller server or payment provider server as opposed to being redirected to the seller s website as in the case of the DHSC check out process where the transaction is finalized The buyer is only redirected to the seller s website after the transaction is completed. Upon completion of a successful transaction notifications such as email notifications may be sent to both the buyer and the seller.

According to one or more embodiments the HPP hosted by the remote server e.g. seller server or payment provider server such as HPP may operate in a browser not running a specific software such as JavaScript. However page loads would replace techniques based on such specific software such as AJAX HTTP or JSON P requests.

In one embodiment computer system may include a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard or keypad and or a cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one embodiment disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

Computer system may perform specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component according to steps described above with respect to . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement one or more embodiments of the disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments execution of instruction sequences for practicing embodiments of the disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice one or more embodiments of the disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Thus according to one or more embodiments by using a DHSC which may be provided with a HPP by a payment provider server or a seller server the buyer may quickly and easily access the DHSC available through all pages of a seller s website to view items placed therein and or complete a purchase from an on line seller entity. The DHSC allows transaction information to be handled in an unobtrusive manner without the need to reload pages. According to one or more embodiments a DHSC widget may be floated on or embedded in each page of the seller s website for example in the form of a button on which the buyer may click to view the DHSC. The DHSC may be viewed in various states including a compact view only showing for example an order total or it may be viewed in an expanded state for example listing the items and checkout options. The checkout options may include multiple payment and shipping options that enable the buyer to submit payment information easily and in some cases without entering sensitive financial information.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended be limiting to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. It is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure.

Having thus described embodiments of the disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is limited only by the claims.

