---

title: Metadata system for real-time updates to electronic program guides
abstract: Novel tools and techniques to enable more robust electronic program guides in television distribution systems. Some solutions can obtain data (e.g., from the Internet) about a program listed on an electronic program guide and integrate that data with electronic program guide. In some cases, this information can be obtained and/or updated dynamically, in real-time or near real-time, for example to provide, up-to-date information can be provided in the electronic program guide, rather than requiring the viewer to tune to an information channel. In some cases, the system can provide a generalized electronic program guide that can be rendered by the system to be displayed on a plurality of different devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351043&OS=09351043&RS=09351043
owner: CenturyLink Intellectual Property LLC
number: 09351043
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120918
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates in general to television distribution services and more particularly to enhanced electronic program guides for such services.

Many television providers provide an electronic program guide EPG as a service to their subscribers. Initially EPGs merely displayed a continuous listing of programs for subscribers on a specified channel. With advances in distribution systems including especially the advent of digital distribution EPGs became a navigational tool allowing subscribers to select a program in the EPG to navigate to that channel and or set a recording for a future program . At the same time many providers began adding additional information such as detailed program information promotional advertisements etc. to EPGs.

As a result a typical EPG today generally provides a set of preprocessed data about current and or upcoming programming. This data is loaded to the subscriber s set top box STB in large files generally as a batch process during late night hours and the like for displaying anytime the EPG is requested before the next batch update. This technique however does not provide a way to add real time data to the TV screen once the EPG metadata file is loaded in memory. Changes need to be pushed to the STB for new data updates severely limiting the ability for an EPG to contain dynamic or real time information.

A set of embodiments provides tools and techniques to enable more robust electronic program guides in television distribution systems which can include without limitation cable television systems satellite television systems Internet Protocol television systems terrestrial broadcast television systems and or the like. In an aspect some embodiments obtain data e.g. from the Internet about a program listed on an electronic program guide and integrate that data with electronic program guide. In a particular aspect of certain embodiments this information can be obtained and or updated dynamically in real time or near real time. In such embodiments for example up to date information can be provided in the electronic program guide rather than requiring the viewer to tune to an information channel. In another aspect of some embodiments the system can provide a generalized electronic program guide that can be rendered by the system to be displayed on a plurality of different devices including without limitation televisions personal computers tablet computers wireless phones and the like .

The tools provided by various embodiments include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Merely by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might provide a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods provided by various other embodiments. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical tangible and or non transitory computer readable media such as to name but a few examples optical media magnetic media and or the like .

Merely by way of example one set of embodiments features methods of providing an electronic program guide to a viewer. An exemplary method might comprise obtaining with a computer an electronic program guide feed. In some aspects such a feed might be obtained from a third party provider. In other aspects the electronic program guide feed might comprise a plurality of program listings of broadcast television programs.

In some embodiments the method might further comprise providing with the computer an application programming interface for adding enhanced metadata to the electronic program guide feed. The computer might obtain obtaining e.g. with the application programming interface enhanced metadata pertaining to a broadcast television program. The method then might include identifying e.g. with the computer one of the plurality of program listings corresponding to the broadcast television program and or integrating again perhaps with the computer the enhanced metadata with the identified program listing.

In some embodiments the method further comprises formatting an electronic program guide from the electronic program guide feed. In an aspect the electronic program guide might include the integrated enhanced metadata. The method can also include rendering a graphical display of the EPG for display on a display device. Merely by way of example some methods might include determining a set of display characteristics for the display device and rendering a graphical display guide might comprise rendering the graphical display guide to accommodate the set of display characteristics. This determination might include identifying the display device from among a plurality of display devices such as a television set top box a personal computer a tablet computer a wireless phone and a remote control device to name but a few examples.

In some cases the enhanced metadata might include a hyperlink inserted into the electronic program guide and or associated with the identified program listing. In such cases a method might include causing the display device to display the graphical display guide including the hyperlink and or receiving a user selection of the hyperlink. In some cases the method might include in response to receiving the user selection of the hyperlink causing the display device to display the enhanced metadata and or causing a second display device to display the enhanced metadata. In other cases the enhanced metadata might include textual and or graphical information inserted into the electronic program guide and or associated with the identified program listing.

An apparatus provided by other embodiments might comprise a non transitory computer readable medium having encoded thereon a set of instructions executable by one or more computers to perform one or more operations including without limitation instructions for performing methods or portions thereof provided by other embodiments.

Merely by way of example in one embodiment the set of instructions might comprise instructions to obtain an electronic program guide feed from a third party provider the electronic program guide feed comprising a plurality of program listings of broadcast television programs and or instructions to provide an application programming interface for adding enhanced metadata to the electronic program guide feed. The set of instructions might further comprise instructions to obtain with the application programming interface enhanced metadata pertaining to a broadcast television program instructions to identify one of the plurality of program listings corresponding to the broadcast television program and or instructions to integrate the enhanced metadata with the identified program listing. In some cases the set of instructions could also include instructions to format an electronic program guide from the electronic program guide feed the electronic program guide including the integrated enhanced metadata and or instructions to render a graphical display of the electronic program guide for display on a display device.

A computer system provided by other embodiments might comprise one or more processors a non transitory computer readable medium in communication with the one or more processors the computer readable medium having encoded thereon software executable by the computer system to perform one or more operations. In some cases the software might comprise a set of instructions such as those described above. In another aspect of some embodiments the software might comprise a plurality of modules.

Merely by way of example in one embodiment the software might comprise a receiver module to obtain an electronic program guide feed from a third party provider the electronic program guide feed comprising a plurality of program listings of broadcast television programs. The software might further comprise an application programming interface module to obtain enhanced metadata pertaining to a broadcast television program and or an integrator module to identify one of the plurality of program listings corresponding to the broadcast television program and integrate the enhanced metadata with the identified program listing. The software in some embodiments could include an electronic program guide formatter module to format an electronic program guide from the electronic program guide feed the electronic program guide including the integrated enhanced metadata. In further embodiments the software might include a renderer module to render a graphical display of the electronic program guide for display on a display device.

While various aspects and features of certain embodiments have been summarized above the following detailed description illustrates a few exemplary embodiments in further detail to enable one of skill in the art to practice such embodiments. The described examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the described embodiments. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that other embodiments of the present may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances certain structures and devices are shown in block diagram form. Several embodiments are described herein and while various features are ascribed to different embodiments it should be appreciated that the features described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated with other embodiments as well. By the same token however no single feature or features of any described embodiment should be considered essential to every embodiment of the invention as other embodiments of the invention may omit such features.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers used herein to express quantities dimensions and so forth used should be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about. In this application the use of the singular includes the plural unless specifically stated otherwise and use of the terms and and or means and or unless otherwise indicated. Moreover the use of the term including as well as other forms such as includes and included should be considered non exclusive. Also terms such as element or component encompass both elements and components comprising one unit and elements and components that comprise more than one unit unless specifically stated otherwise.

Embodiments can include systems methods software tools and techniques to enable more robust electronic program guides EPG in television distribution systems. Such distribution systems vary widely in different embodiments and can include without limitation cable television systems satellite television systems Internet Protocol television systems terrestrial broadcast television systems and or the like. Accordingly various embodiments can be used in a wide variety of broadcast multicast and or unicast environments. In fact while many embodiments can be implemented within and or in conjunction with a set top box some embodiments can provide EPGs for a variety of devices in addition to conventional television distribution equipment. Such devices can include without limitation different types of computing devices such as personal computers laptop computers and the like portable and or handheld devices such tablet computers personal digital assistants music players smart phones and the like gaming systems such as game consoles handheld gaming systems and the like and or any other type of device that can be capable of displaying and or utilizing the enhanced EPGs described herein.

In an aspect some embodiments obtain data e.g. from the Internet about a program listed on an electronic program guide and integrate that data with electronic program guide. Merely by way of example one embodiment might include functionality for obtaining data from one or more sources such sources might make data available to the public or might maintain proprietary data which the operator of the EPG e.g. a television distribution provider might obtain via a relationship contractual or otherwise with a provider of the data. This functionality might be implemented as an application programming interface API in some embodiments in other embodiments the functionality might be implemented as a web service which could also be considered an API in some implementations or any other type of data exchange facility e.g. an eXtensible Markup Language XML data bus and or the like . In some embodiment the system might obtain the data by actively acquiring the data in other embodiments the system might act as a passive recipient of the data in order to obtain the data.

In a particular aspect of certain embodiments such information referred to herein as enhanced metadata can be obtained and or updated dynamically in real time or near real time. In such embodiments for example up to date information can be provided in the EPG rather than requiring the viewer to tune to an information channel or view static data that might be. Merely by way of example an embodiment might display an EPG having a program listing for a baseball game or other sporting event. The system might obtain and provide with the program listing statistics or other information about the sporting event such as the current score of the game the game situation inning number of outs runners on base balls and strikes etc. current pitcher and batter etc. Such information can be continually refreshed in the EPG so that the viewer can tell at a glance whether the game might be worth watching and or can perceive information quickly without having to tune to the game. Similarly dynamic information can be provided about any number of different types of program listings such as comedies dramas news programs and or the like. Hence a variety of different types of enhanced metadata can be provided through an EPG. For example with regard to a broadcast television program or a movie the enhanced metadata might include one or more published reviews of the television program or movie e.g. reviews from popular review sites such as Rottentomatoes.com .

In another aspect of some embodiments the system can provide a generalized electronic program guide that can be rendered by the system to be displayed on a plurality of different devices including without limitation the devices described above such as televisions personal computers tablet computers wireless phones and the like . In such embodiments for example the system can provide generate an enhanced EPG in a standard format and then render it for display on different devices each of which might have different display capabilities resolution etc. user interface remote control keyboard and mouse touch interface etc. . Based on the capabilities of the device the rendered EPG might have more or less functionality such as allowing the selection of a program and tuning the device to the program tuning another device to the selected program exploring enhanced metadata with a different device and or the like. For instance in one embodiment a viewer might be able to select a program listing on one device such as a set top box and have enhanced metadata about that program sent to another device such as a wireless phone or tablet computer . Likewise selection of a program listing on one device such as a wireless phone or tablet computer might cause another device such as a set top box to tune to the selected program listing.

Turning now to the figures illustrates a system in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system is depicted functionally and it can be implemented using a variety of hardware arrangements. Merely by way of example in some cases the system might be implemented on a single computer such as a middleware server in an IPTV network a set top box in communication with a television distribution network etc. as a plurality of computers etc. The functionality attributed to various components of the system can be distributed and or aggregated as appropriate in different embodiments. Merely by way of example in some cases certain components of the system might be implemented in a set top box. By the same token the functions ascribed herein to various components of the system can be arranged differently for instance the functions ascribed to a plurality of components might be performed by a single component in other embodiments and or the functions ascribed to a single component might be performed by a plurality of components in other embodiments.

The system includes a receiver module that obtains an EPG feed from an EPG source which might be a third party EPG data provider. In some embodiments this function can be performed in conventional fashion. The system however can include metadata both metadata generated by the system and or obtained from the EPG source etc. and external metadata also referred to herein as enhanced metadata . In one aspect the difference between the metadata and the external metadata can be that the metadata is generated for use with an EPG in conventional fashion while the external metadata was originally generated for another purpose and or is pre existent such that the system repurposes the external metadata and integrates it with the EPG as described in further detail herein. For example in an aspect the metadata might be static metadata that includes information about program guide listings such as rating information program descriptions and the like which might be obtained from the EPG source or another source. In a different aspect the external metadata might be data that is obtained dynamically by the system and therefore can be updated more readily e.g. in real time or near real time than the metadata which might require an updated feed from the EPG source .

In the illustrated embodiment the system comprises an integrator module that integrates the metadata and or the external metadata with the EPG feed. As noted above some or all of the metadata might be obtained with the EPG feed itself such that it need not be integrated with the EPG feed. Conversely because the external metadata was not designed for use with an EPG that metadata generally will be integrated by the integrator module . One technique for integrating the metadata is described in further detail below. The system might also include an EPG formatter module which formats an EPG from the EPG feed and the integrated metadata.

Conventionally a broadcast television system provides an EPG for televisions connected to the system e.g. via a set top box in communication with the system head end. In a novel aspect of some embodiments the system can provide an EPG for a variety of devices in addition to the television set top box. In such embodiments the system can include a renderer module which renders a graphical display of the EPG for a plurality of devices. Such devices can include without limitation a set top box and or a television which might communicate with the system directly and or through the set top box a game console an iPhone or other device running an EPG app a personal computer PC which might display the EPG in a web browser and or a dedicated application and or a mobile device without an EPG app which might display the EPG in a mobile web browser etc. . In an aspect the renderer module can render the EPG according to the display characteristics and or input output characteristics of the specific devices.

In a novel aspect of other embodiments the system includes an application programming interface API that receives or otherwise obtains the external metadata. In some embodiments the API provides a standardized interface to obtain the metadata e.g. via the Internet from a variety of data sources . Such data sources can include for example providers such as Major League Baseball or other direct data sources which might provide e.g. real time or near real time information about ongoing events such as box scores for a baseball game current pitcher batter information game status information such as current inning balls strikes outs men on base etc. detailed biographical information about players etc. . Data sources can also include indirect sources such as blogs social media sites and or results from Internet searches to name a few examples. Metadata from any of these sources can be included in the EPG to provide dynamically updated information to the subscriber in the EPG without requiring the subscriber to actually tune to a channel.

The method comprises in an embodiment obtaining an EPG feed block . In one aspect the system and or a receiver module thereof might obtain an EPG feed from a third party source such as a commercial EPG provider. In another aspect the system or another component of the television provider s system might generate the EPG feed and provide it to the receiver module. In either case the EPG feed can include standard information such as program listings for all programs which can include prerecorded programs news programs sports programs and other live events etc. information about the programs channel information start and stop times for each program brief descriptions of programs ratings etc. and or the like. Programs included in the EPG feed can include scheduled broadcast programs on demand programs etc.

In some cases the method comprises providing an API for adding enhanced metadata to the EPG feed block . In aspect the API can provide a standardized interface for exchanging data with metadata sources. The API might comprise a web service and or XML interface through which a third party or another system component can provide metadata generated outside the system. Alternatively and or additionally the API might function to actively obtain metadata for example as described below.

In some embodiments the API can allow of customization of EPG metadata e.g. based on subscriber preferences such that different external metadata can be obtained for different subscribers depending for example upon the subscriber s stated and or observed preferences about the amount of metadata to be provided in the EPG and or the subscriber s stated and or observed preferences about which programs or types of programs should have associated metadata. For instance one subscriber might indicate through express user input that he would like as much metadata is available for every program while another subscriber might indicate through express user input that she would not like any enhanced metadata to be displayed in the EPG. Alternatively and or additionally these preferences might be observed by the system based on user interaction with metadata in the EPG such that over time a subscriber who interacts more often with metadata is provided with relatively more metadata than one who does not. Likewise one subscriber might indicate expressly and or implicitly through behavior that she prefers metadata for sports programs but not movies while another subscriber might indicate either expressly and or implicitly through behavior that he prefers metadata for movies and news programs but not sports. Such preferences can be used by the API to determine what types and or amounts of metadata to obtain for integration with the EPG.

At block the method can include obtaining enhanced metadata. In an aspect this metadata might pertain to a particular broadcast television program. A variety of techniques can be used to obtain the enhanced metadata. Merely by way of example in some cases the system might receive the enhanced metadata via the API and or as a data feed from a third party such as a sports information provider . In some cases the API can passively receive metadata while in other cases the API might actively obtain the metadata. In a particular set of embodiments the system might include or be in communication with e.g. via the API a data engine that actively obtains data e.g. from the Internet. For example the data engine might perform automated Internet searches e.g. using standard search engines for information related to particular television programs that are included in the EPG feed for instance by using the program title or other program information as keywords for the searches in one aspect the search results can be passed to the system through the API.

In an aspect of certain embodiments once the system has obtained enhanced metadata the system associates that metadata with one or more particular program listings. Accordingly the method can include identifying one or more of a plurality of program listings that correspond to the television program to which the metadata pertains block . Any of a variety of attributes about the program such as asset ID asset program title actor names and or the like can be used as a key to identify program s to which the metadata pertains.

At block the method comprises integrating the enhanced metadata with the EPG feed. In a particular aspect the enhanced metadata might be integrated with the identified program listing for the television program corresponding to the metadata. In some cases a single program might have multiple program listings such as when a program is broadcast on multiple channels and or rebroadcast at different times in such cases the metadata might be integrated with each listing and or a link might be established between a single instance of the metadata and each listing. 

A variety of different types of enhanced metadata can be provided by the system and by the same token a variety of different techniques can be used to integrate the enhanced metadata with the EPG and or a program listing therein . Merely by way of example in some cases the enhanced metadata might include textual information such as movie reviews actor biographies sports statistics and or the like. In such cases integrating the enhanced metadata with the EPG can comprise inserting the textual information into the EPG alternatively and or additionally this textual information can be associated with a particular program listing that corresponds to the television program to which the information pertains. In other cases the enhanced metadata might include graphical information which can include inter alia photographs computer generated graphics video clips and or the like and integrating graphical metadata with the EPG can include inserting that graphical information into the EPG and or associating the graphical information with one or more program listings.

In some cases it may be preferable to insert a hyperlink into a program listing rather than the metadata itself. Merely by way of example enhanced metadata can be quite voluminous in certain circumstances and inclusion of the metadata in a program listing might be infeasible and or might detract from the usability of the EPG. In such cases the system might merely insert a hyperlink into a program listing and associating the hyperlink with the metadata. When the subscriber selects the hyperlink for example as described in further detail below the system can present the metadata to the subscriber. The use of a hyperlink can in some instances allow the system to provide real time or near real time information to the subscriber through the EPG.

For instance in the context of a baseball game a program listing for the game might include a hyperlink that the user can select to obtain real time or near real time statistics about that game. Merely by way of example the system might obtain e.g. through the API up to date statistics and or other information and display that up to date information on the EPG. In this way the subscriber can obtain information in the EPG without having to actually tune to the baseball game. Of course such functionality can also be implemented without the use of a hyperlink in the program listing. For example the system might obtain the same up to date information when the subscriber pages to the program listing in the EPG and such information might that be displayed along with the program listing for instance in a sidebar without requiring the user to select a hyperlink. 

In the illustrated embodiment the method comprises formatting an EPG from the EPG feed block . In an aspect the formatted EPG includes the metadata that is integrated with the EPG feed and or the individual program listings. As a general matter formatting the EPG can include any operations that prepare an EPG to be rendered for display on a generic display screen and or display screen of a specific size resolution. Merely by way of example formatting the EPG can comprise organizing visual elements of the EPG feed and or associated enhanced metadata into a desired ordering laying out a graphical display for the EPG and or the like.

In a particular aspect formatting an EPG can comprise defining a spatial relationship on a display screen between program listings and or other EPG elements and enhanced metadata that is associated with those listings elements. The spatial relationship between program listings and associated enhanced metadata can vary among different EPG s and or within a single EPG. Merely by way of example in some cases if the EPG is organized in a grid layout e.g. with rows corresponding to different channels and columns corresponding to different time slots enhanced metadata for a particular program listing might be included within the grid cell for that program listing. Alternatively and or additionally enhanced metadata might only be displayed when a program listing of selected. Merely by way of example the format of the EPG might reserve a particular screen region e.g. a corner of the screen quarter of the screen half of the screen top bottom and or side of the screen etc. . When a program listing with enhanced metadata is selected on the EPG that region might show the enhanced metadata. Alternatively and or additionally the enhanced metadata might be shown in a window along with and or as an alternative to detailed program information provided with the EPG feed when the user requests detailed information about a program. In some cases if the enhanced metadata is to be provided via a hyperlink formatting the EPG might include inserting the hyperlink into the program listing e.g. directly in the listing in a region reserved for metadata as described above or the like .

As noted above certain embodiments can support multiple different types of display devices including without limitation those noted above and or can render the EPG differently according to the characteristics of each device. Hence in an embodiment the method can comprise identifying a display device from among a plurality of possible display devices on which the EPG should be rendered block . A number of techniques can be used to identify a display device. Merely by way of example if the display device is a television in communication with the set top box the set top box might be addressable by a middleware server or other device in the television distribution network such that the middleware server can assume that the set top box will be responsible for displaying the EPG. With regard to other display devices such as PCs tablet computers smart phones and or the like the subscriber might register such devices with the middleware server and or another device in the television distribution network. Such registration can include addressing information e.g. an IP address hostname etc. and or display characteristics of each such device. In some cases for instance the subscriber might identify a device by make and model identify the device as a web browser and or the like. In other cases a display device might run an application and or an app that automatically registers itself with television distribution network.

The system then can receive a request from a display device e.g. based on a request sat the device from the subscriber and if that advice has been registered and or is capable of identifying itself to the system the system can identify the device as being a recipient of the EPG. Alternatively and or additionally the system and or component therein such as the middleware server might periodically distribute EPGs to a number of different registered devices and might identify such devices e.g. based on registrations prior to distribution of the EPGs.

The method can further include determining a set of display characteristics and or user interface characteristics for the display device which might be identified as described above on which the EPG should be rendered block . As noted above with respect to set top boxes the system might be aware of such devices and the standard resolutions e.g. SDTV 720p 1080i 1080p etc. of televisions that might be attached to the set top box. Similarly the user interface characteristics of the set top box might be standardized e.g. input by remote control and known by the system. With regard to other devices also as noted above such devices might be registered with the system and the display and user interface characteristics of such display devices might be identified by the system at the time of restriction e.g. by lookup from the table of known makes and models of devices and or based on user input. Hence in many cases the display and or user interface characteristics of a particular display device can be determined by reference to the subscriber s profile once the display device is been identified. With regard to browser based display devices the display and or user interface characteristics may be determined by the system based on user agent strings and or other information provided by the browser in a request for the EPG.

At block the method comprises rendering a graphical display of the EPG for display on a display device. In one aspect the system and or a component thereof such as a renderer module might render the graphical display to accommodate any determined display characteristics of the display device on which the EPG is to be displayed. As a general matter rendering the graphical display of the EPG for the selected device can comprise producing a bitmap and or other graphical image corresponding to the display characteristics e.g. screen resolution and or user input devices supported by the selected display device. Hence the same EPG format might be displayed differently on a smart phone a tablet and television in communication with a set top box in order to maximize the user experience on each device.

At block the method can comprise displaying the rendered graphical display of the EPG on the selected display device. The rendered graphical display can include the enhanced metadata. The appearance of the enhanced metadata in the graphical display can depend on the technique used to integrate the enhanced metadata and or the characteristics of the display device.

In an aspect the system might cause the display device which might or might not be considered part of the system to display the graphical display for example by sending graphical data to the display device to be displayed by a dedicated application and or a browser on the display device. In other cases a set top box which again might or might not be considered part of the system might send video data e.g. via an HDMI cable component connection etc. to a television to cause the television to display the graphical display of the EPG.

As noted above in some cases the enhanced metadata might be integrated with the EPG and or a program listing therein by including a hyperlink with the program listing. Accordingly the method might include receiving a user selection of the hyperlink block . The nature of the user selection often will depend on the type of display device on which the graphical display of the EPG is rendered. Merely by way of example if the EPG is being displayed on a television via a set top box the selection may be performed by the subscriber highlighting the hyperlink using cursor keys on the remote control and pressing a select or enter button on the remote control to select the hyperlink. Alternatively and or additionally the remote control might be customized to include a specific button that is configured to select a hyperlink corresponding to a program listing currently highlighted on the EPG. With regard to other display devices the nature of the selection can depend on the capabilities of the device. For example on a tablet device or smartphone with a touchscreen the selection of the hyperlink may comprise the subscriber touching hyperlink on the screen and on a PC selection of the hyperlink that comprise clicking on the link with a mouse or other pointing device. The display device can communicate that user input to the system which receives the user input and interprets it as a selection of the hyperlink.

At block the method can include can include displaying the enhanced metadata and or causing a display device to display the enhanced metadata . In some cases the enhanced metadata will be displayed by default in the EPG e.g. when the EPG is displaying a program listing with which enhanced metadata has been integrated. In other cases the enhanced metadata might be displayed in response to receiving a user selection of a hyperlink associated with a particular program listing. In one aspect the enhanced metadata might be displayed on the display device that displayed the graphical EPG itself.

In another aspect however the system might cause a different display device to display the enhanced metadata. As noted above the subscriber might have a profile which can be stored on the set top box at a middleware server and or it in the location in the television provider s network and the profile might have stored therein a number of different display devices with which the system can communicate. The subscriber might prefer to view the enhanced metadata on a different device than the device displaying the EPG for example to allow the subscriber to watch a television program on one device and review the enhanced metadata on different device at the same time.

In one aspect this behavior can be induced by user input. Merely by way of example if the EPG is displayed on a television via a set top box when the subscriber selects the hyperlink the subscriber might be presented with an option to display the enhanced metadata on the television set or to display the enhanced metadata on a different device. Alternatively and or additionally the subscriber s profile might include configuration information indicating a preference for a particular display device e.g. one of the display devices registered with the system to which enhanced metadata should be sent and or the user might be provided with the ability to configure that behavior on a per session basis at the set top box. In an aspect because the display device to which the enhanced metadata is to be sent is registered with the system the system can address the display device and can provide the enhanced metadata properly formatted and rendered for that display device s characteristics to the device and or an application or web browser thereon .

As noted above the method can be performed by a single computer system such as a middleware server set top box etc. and or by multiple computer systems in conjunction. Merely by way of example in some cases a middleware server or other television distribution system head end equipment might obtain the EPG feed and metadata integrate the metadata with the EPG feed and format the EPG. A set top box then might render the graphical display of the EPG cause the display of the rendered EPG and or perform user interaction operations. In other cases the set top box might perform the rendering for a television set while the middleware server and or a web server in communication therewith performs the rendering for other devices such as PCs tablet computers smart phones etc. The middleware server and or web server might provide user interaction with such devices as well.

A number of different configurations are possible. For example in one embodiment a middleware server might prepare and format an EPG with integrated metadata e.g. as described above and provide that EPG to a set top box to be rendered and displayed on a television set. Upon receiving user selection e.g. with a remote control of a hyperlink to enhanced metadata the set top box might communicate that user selection to the middleware server which causes a tablet computer to display the enhanced metadata e.g. through an app or a web browser on the tablet computer . The middleware server might include or otherwise utilize a web server to send data to the tablet computer to cause the display of the enhanced metadata.

As noted above the system is capable of providing dynamically updated e.g. real time or near real time metadata through the EPG. Hence in an aspect whenever a subscriber activates the EPG on a set top box or other device the system might perform the actions of obtaining up to date metadata integrating the metadata formatting the EPG rendering the EPG and causing the display of the EPG. Alternatively and or additionally when the subscriber selects a particular program having associated metadata or selects a hyperlink to view metadata the system might obtain updated metadata and integrate it with the program listing prior to displaying the listing or displaying the metadata in response to the subscriber request . Similarly when the system obtains updated metadata e.g. from a third party provider through the API the displayed EPG can be refreshed to include the updated metadata.

The computer system is shown comprising hardware elements that can be electrically coupled via a bus or may otherwise be in communication as appropriate . The hardware elements may include one or more processors including without limitation one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors such as digital signal processing chips graphics acceleration processors and or the like one or more input devices which can include without limitation a mouse a keyboard and or the like and one or more output devices which can include without limitation a display device a printer and or the like.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. Such storage devices may be configured to implement any appropriate data stores including without limitation various file systems database structures and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation audio and or video input output e.g. component input output HDMI input output and or the like . The communications subsystem might further comprise a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device a WWAN device cellular communication facilities etc. and or the like. The communications subsystem may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below to name one example with other computer systems and or with any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a working memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also may comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system device drivers executable libraries and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs provided by various embodiments and or may be designed to implement methods and or configure systems provided by other embodiments as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as code and or instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer in an aspect then such code and or instructions can be used to configure and or adapt a general purpose computer or other device to perform one or more operations in accordance with the described methods.

A set of these instructions and or code might be encoded and or stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such as the system . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. and or provided in an installation package such that the storage medium can be used to program configure and or adapt a general purpose computer with the instructions code stored thereon. These instructions might take the form of executable code which is executable by the computer system and or might take the form of source and or installable code which upon compilation and or installation on the computer system e.g. using any of a variety of generally available compilers installation programs compression decompression utilities etc. then takes the form of executable code.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware such as programmable logic controllers field programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or the like might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets etc. or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As mentioned above in one aspect some embodiments may employ a computer system such as the computer system to perform methods in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. According to a set of embodiments some or all of the procedures of such methods are performed by the computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions which might be incorporated into the operating system and or other code such as an application program contained in the working memory . Such instructions may be read into the working memory from another computer readable medium such as one or more of the storage device s . Merely by way of example execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the working memory might cause the processor s to perform one or more procedures of the methods described herein.

The terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium as used herein refer to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using the computer system various computer readable media might be involved in providing instructions code to processor s for execution and or might be used to store and or carry such instructions code e.g. as signals . In many implementations a computer readable medium is a non transitory physical and or tangible storage medium. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical and or magnetic disks such as the storage device s . Volatile media includes without limitation dynamic memory such as the working memory . Transmission media includes without limitation coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus as well as the various components of the communication subsystem and or the media by which the communications subsystem provides communication with other devices . Hence transmission media can also take the form of waves including without limitation radio acoustic and or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications .

Common forms of physical and or tangible computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read instructions and or code.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor s for execution. Merely by way of example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk and or optical disc of a remote computer. A remote computer might load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions as signals over a transmission medium to be received and or executed by the computer system . These signals which might be in the form of electromagnetic signals acoustic signals optical signals and or the like are all examples of carrier waves on which instructions can be encoded in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

The communications subsystem and or components thereof generally will receive the signals and the bus then might carry the signals and or the data instructions etc. carried by the signals to the working memory from which the processor s retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the working memory may optionally be stored on a storage device either before or after execution by the processor s .

As noted above a set of embodiments comprises systems for providing EPGs with enhanced metadata. illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers which can function as display devices in accordance with various embodiments. A user computer can be a general purpose personal computer a tablet computer or smart phone including merely by way of example tablet computers handheld computers and the like running any appropriate operating system several of which are available from vendors such as Apple Microsoft Corp. and the like and or a workstation computer running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems and or a set top box . A user computer can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform operations such as rendering and or display operations in accordance with methods provided by various embodiments as described above for example as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and or web browser applications. Alternatively a user computer can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or of displaying and navigating EPGs web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with three user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available and or free or proprietary protocols including without limitation TCP IP. Merely by way of example the network can include a television distribution network such as a cable television network a VDSL network an IPTV network etc. a local area network LAN including without limitation a fiber network an Ethernet network and or the like a wide area network a wireless wide area network WWAN a virtual network such as a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments can also include one or more server computers . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially or freely available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a middleware server configured to provide conventional television distribution services such as IPTV services to a plurality of subscribers. The middleware server can also be configured to operate as the system of and or as various components thereof and or to perform some or all of the EPG generation procedures described with respect to the method of .

Another server might be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers including providing an EPG to a browser on a user computer . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention. The web server might be integrated with or in communication with a middleware server. It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein can be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases which can be used to store enhanced metadata EPG feeds subscriber and or display device profiles and or the like. The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

While certain features and aspects have been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods provided by various embodiments are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while certain functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with the several embodiments.

Moreover while the procedures of the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary aspects of those embodiments the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although several exemplary embodiments are described above it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

