---

title: Apparatus and methods for improving vibration isolation, thermal dampening, and optical access in cryogenic refrigerators
abstract: A cryogenic apparatus is provided having a nested thermally insulating structure, thermal links, a vacuum shroud, and a cryo-cooler. The nested thermally insulated structure holds a sample to be cooled while dampening the external vibrations caused by the cryo-cooler, the surrounding environment or cryo-cooler mounting surface. The thermal link is made of thermally conductive wires which connect the nested thermally insulated structure and the cryo-cooler thereby allowing the apparatus to reduce vibrations inherent in the operation of the cryo-cooler.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756941&OS=08756941&RS=08756941
owner: S2 Corporation
number: 08756941
owner_city: Bozeman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121204
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 461 529 filed on Aug. 14 2009 which in turn claims the benefit of priority from Provisional U.S. Patent Application 61 136 138 filed on Aug. 14 2008 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DASG60 03 C 0075 awarded by the US ARMY SPACE MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to the field of low temperature refrigeration. Particularly this disclosure relates to low vibration cryogenic devices and methods of use.

Cryo coolers are devices designed to cool samples to cryogenic temperatures so that a user can use or make measurements on a cold sample.

One class of cryo coolers achieve cooling of a sample by dripping or venting liquid helium onto a cold finger sample mount plate where the sample is in vacuum or alternatively in a chamber of cold helium gas which surrounds the sample mount. The action of boiling off liquid helium effectively cools the sample to temperatures near or below 4 degrees Kelvin 4 K . Helium gas is then vented off into the atmosphere. This type of cryo cooler is called an open cycle cryo cooler because of the fact the system has to be constantly fed helium for continuous operation. Helium is supplied to these systems through a transfer line from a dewar that contains liquid helium or where there is a dewar above the sample mount. These systems inherently have little or no vibrations induced on the sample which would only be induced by the dripping helium or the external surroundings however open cycle cryo coolers are hard to maintain and depend on an external continuous supply of liquid helium which is hard to distribute and handle and is becoming increasingly expensive as helium is a non renewable resource only attainable from mining or as bi products of other manufacturing processes. Open cycle cryo coolers also require somewhat constant maintenance in the delivery of the helium supply to the cryostat which is monitored and controlled.

To overcome the deficiencies of open cycle cryo coolers a class of cryo coolers referred to as cryo refrigerators or closed cycle cryo coolers have been developed. These are thermo mechanical devices which provide cooling to a cold finger through the pressure cycling of helium gas. These systems require only a single charge of helium gas which is then pressure cycled in an ongoing refrigeration cycle. Cryogenic temperatures can vary but are typically defined to be 

However while these cryo refrigerator systems solve many problems for the end user they have deficiencies of their own for applications where the measurement or experiment or sample is very sensitive to external perturbations vibrations and or acoustic noise. These problems arise with the cryo refrigerator systems due to the mechanical noise and vibrations created by the pressure and temperature cycling of the cold head. The vibrations are created by the normal operation of the cold head which propagate to the sample through mechanical connections through the cold finger to the sample.

Thus there exists a need for a closed cycle cryo cooler configuration in which a sample of choice can be cooled to cryogenic temperatures but without having a direct coupling to the vibrations of the cold finger for sensitive and cryogenic applications. These deficiencies are not known to have been overcome in the prior art.

A number of attempts have been made to isolate vibrations of a closed cycle cryo cooler from a test sample. One attempt outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 5 327 733 seems to have improved vibration isolation however the size of the apparatus and specialization of the lab required to accept such an apparatus is relatively large. This apparatus requires separate support structures which in their preferred embodiment comprises a stiff structure protruding from a ceiling of a laboratory to support the cryo cooler expander unit while a similar support structure is mounted on a laboratory table specially designed to dampen vibrations and accept the lower portion of the structure which supports the sample. The table is filled with granular material to further dampen vibrations. This entire structure and included support hardware would be extremely hard to move and if a move did happen modification of a laboratory at the new location would be required. The described design also has multiple independent supports for the entire system.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 854 131 describes a vibration isolation system which has a support structure supported by the same flange that supports the cryo cooler. This would allow vibrations to travel directly from the cold head to the supported sample. This patent also includes a Joule Thomson cooler attached to the end of a conventional closed cycle cryo cooler which creates a more complex system than needed to achieve temperatures of 15 K or lower.

In U.S. Pat. No. 3 894 403 a vibration isolation system is described which is similar to U.S. Pat. No. 5 327 733 in its structure for supporting the sample. These two inventions use a convective gas such as helium to transfer the thermal energy from the sample to the cryo cooler. The use of gas or liquid to transfer thermal energy is not feasible in certain situations such as remote installations due to supply problems for example on a ship or submarine.

Another example of an attempt at vibration isolation of a sample is found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 129 232 where a sample is connected to the cold finger with strap links. The sample is not supported except through the flexible thermal links. This system is missing a support structure designed to stabilize the sample.

Two U.S. Patents U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 394 819 and 4 161 747 describe a sample directly coupled to a stable reference plane. One mounts the cryo cooler in a floated position that allows movement of the cryo cooler while the second is solidly mounted. The floated mount style can have good vibration dampening however it is not robust for remote installations especially when multiple isolator pads and bellows have to be maintained and is therefore not suitable for applications requiring reliability such as on a ship or submarine. Both systems use a support structure however U.S. Pat. No. 4 394 819 does not mention what the structure is while U.S. Pat. No. 4 161 747 mentions Nylon rods with copper spacers to create a support structure.

Regarding the thermal links U.S. Pat. No. 4 869 068 uses a single piece of folded thermally conductive material to transfer heat while allowing motion. This disclosure is insufficient however as the stiffness is significantly higher in this geometry than otherwise possible by using multiple elements to transfer thermal energy.

Conventional thermal links are typically made from multiple elements of thermally conductive material stacked to form a single thermal connection as in U.S. Pat. No. 5 129 232. This type of thermal link provides some flexibility in three orthogonal directions however the stiffness is only minimized in one direction and even this minimized stiffness is less flexible than otherwise possible.

Thermal links using wires oriented in a twisted orientations are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 317 879. These thermal links serve to provide similar flexibility in any three orthogonal directions however the twisted orientation of the wires cause binding and causes interaction between individual wires making it less flexible. Thermal links that use braided wires exist as in U.S. Pat. No. 4 854 131 however are similarly disadvantageous as the wires bind on each other due to the braded wire orientation.

A thermal connection is also disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 077 637 which utilizes wires in a housing. Disadvantageously the housing material limits the flexibility of the thermal connection making it undesirably stiff.

In order to overcome the above mentioned problems this disclosure identifies a cryogenic apparatus comprised of a nested thermally insulating structure thermal links a vacuum shroud and a cryo cooler. The nested thermally insulated structure referred to hereinafter as the NTIS is for holding a sample to be cooled and the thermal link connects the nested thermally insulated structure and the cryo cooler. The goal is to cool the sample while dampening the external vibrations caused by the cryo cooler and the surrounding environment or cryo cooler mounting surface also referred to hereinafter as the common mounting reference plane. Thus the sample when connected to the cryo cooler is cold and has the additional attribute of having low vibration despite the fact that the cryo cooler itself has appreciable vibrations.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure the nested thermally insulated structure comprises a sample mount for holding the sample to be cooled by the cryo cooler. The sample mount is optionally tapped with screw holes to allow for a connection of samples. The sample mount is attached to an inner thermally insulated tube which is then attached to a middle thermally insulated tube via a first tube coupler. The NTIS also comprises an outer thermally insulated tube attached to the middle thermally insulated tube via a second tube coupler.

The NTIS is constructed in a folded arrangement such that the middle thermally insulated tube surrounds the inner thermally insulated tube such that a point midway between the top and bottom of the inner thermally insulated tube is disposed between the top and bottom of the middle thermally insulated tube. Similarly the outer thermally insulated tube surrounds the middle thermally insulated tube such that a point midway between the top and bottom of the middle thermally insulated tube is disposed between the top and bottom of the outer thermally insulated tube.

The cryogenic apparatus optionally comprises a mount flange attached to an outer surface of the outer thermally insulated tube to connect the NTIS to a vacuum shroud. In another embodiment the cryogenic apparatus further comprises a tubular radiation shield disposed between the outer thermally insulated tube and the middle thermally insulated tube and the tubular radiation shield is attached to the second tube coupler. The tubular radiation shield may be removably attached or permanently attached to the tube coupler.

Optionally the NTIS may have only two tube portions an inner thermally insulated tube attached to the sample mount and an outer thermally insulated tube attached to the inner thermally insulated tube via a tube coupler. In this embodiment the outer thermally insulated tube surrounds the inner thermally insulated tube such that a point midway between the top and bottom of the inner thermally insulated tube is disposed between the top and bottom of the outer thermally insulated tube. A tubular radiation shield is disposed between the outer thermally insulated tube and the inner thermally insulated tube wherein the tubular radiation shield is attached to the tube coupler.

In other embodiments the NTIS may have any number N of thermally insulated tubes with N 1 tube couplers.

The components of the cryogenic apparatus are comprised of suitable materials to optimize the thermal and vibration dampening properties. For example the inner thermally insulated tube the middle thermally insulated tube and the outer thermally insulated tube comprise glass fiber and epoxy resin. Optionally they are comprised of carbon fiber graphite poly N N p p oxydiphenylene pyromellitimide or polyaryletheretherketone. The sample mount comprises copper and the tubular radiation shield the first tube coupler and the second tube coupler comprise aluminum. Each of the joints for the elements of the nested structure may be attached with the use of epoxy. Of course other materials known in the art to be suitable for low temperature refrigeration are useable as well.

In other embodiments the cryo cooler of the cryogenic apparatus comprises a cold head a high temperature cold finger in communication with the cold head a low temperature cold finger in communication with the high temperature cold finger and a cryo cooler radiation shield.

The thermal link has a high temperature thermal link portion and a low temperature thermal link portion such that the high temperature thermal link portion connects the second tube coupler with the high temperature cold finger and the low temperature thermal link portion connects the sample mount with the low temperature cold finger. In addition the cryo cooler radiation shield connects the high temperature cold finger and the high temperature thermal link portion.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the thermal link comprises a plurality of wires. The thermal link has greater than 1000 wires. Optionally the thermal link has greater than 10 000 wires. Each wire comprises a thermally conducting metal such as copper although any suitable conductive metal may be used. Each of the wires has a diameter of from 0.001 inches to 0.005 inches.

In the present disclosure the thermal link reduces vibration in the cryogenic apparatus such that a peak corresponding to a repetition interval at which the cryo cooler operates is lowered from 10 m to 20 nm.

In another embodiment of the present disclosure the cryogenic apparatus comprises a vacuum shroud encasing the NTIS the cryo cooler and the thermal link. A vacuum plate is removably attached to the vacuum shroud such that the outer thermally insulated tube the sample mount and the vacuum plate form a sample chamber. The sample chamber is not in fluid communication with an area enclosed by the vacuum shroud such that upon dispersal of the vacuum in the sample chamber a vacuum can be maintained in the area enclosed by the vacuum shroud.

The cryogenic apparatus optionally comprises a removable radiation shield removably attached to the tubular radiation shield and the removable radiation shield is not in direct contact with the vacuum plate.

Optionally the cryogenic apparatus is structured such that a portion of the inner thermally insulated tube a portion of the middle thermally insulated tube a portion of the outer thermally insulated tube and a portion of the tubular radiation shield are transparent to light. For example optical access is provided by including apertures in parts of the NTIS which can be accessed and accommodated by optical windows in the vacuum shroud. The orientation of the NTIS with respect to the vacuum shroud allows access to the sample space to be accessed from the bottom the top or the side with respect to the user.

The cryogenic apparatus has various novel attributes including but not limited to its compact nested design which reduces its overall volume the use of joints between different materials that reduces its flexibility and thus increases its structural stability its insulating ability to connect to very cold and very warm parts and maintain a temperature gradient across materials its ability to maintain a vacuum in the sample mounting volume and its ease of access to the sample mounting region from a detachable access plate. NTIS connects directly to a common reference plane as does the cryo cooler through a mount flange.

Additional advantages and other features of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from the practice of the disclosure. The advantages of the disclosure may be realized and obtained as particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

As will be realized the present disclosure is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects all without departing from the disclosure. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A block diagram representing subassemblies and individual components of each subassembly of the present disclosure is shown in . The components are the nested thermally insulated structure NTIS the thermal links the vacuum shroud the cryo cooler and the sample .

The disclosed system typically has four main groups of components. Each component serves a specific role that aids in the overall operation of the system. These groups are outlined individually and then collectively.

The cryogenic refrigerator serves to facilitate the transfer of heat energy out of the cryostat. There are many different types of cryogenic refrigerators however they all serve to extract heat from the sample and other components within the cryostat thus allowing the components to reach the desired temperature. The cryo cooler is a mechanical device which provides pressure cycling of Helium gas when combined with a compressor and gas transfer lines not shown to circulate Helium gas to the coldfinger stages where it expands and produces cooling before circulating back to the compressor.

The present disclosure may be applied to all types of conventional cryo refrigerators. While in this description of the present disclosure one class of cryo coolers is discussed it is not limited to this class.

A sample can be any object of interest to be mounted and cooled to cryogenic temperatures within the physical constraints of the sample mounting space as provided by the present disclosure which the user desires to be cryogenically cooled and to have significantly reduced displacement or mechanical vibration levels. Examples include but are not limited to superconducting electronic chips spectroscopic material samples photodetectors crystals etc. The sample is typically connected to the sample mounting plate via a mechanical connection apparatus .

The nested thermally insulating structure NTIS is a rigid thermally insulating structure comprised of several jointed materials which serves as the connection apparatus between the cryo cooler to a sample via metallic contact points to thermal links and a vacuum shroud .

Advantages of the disclosed NTIS include but are not limited to a compact nested design which reduces the overall volume of the nested structure the use of joints between different materials that reduces flexibility and thus increases structural stability insulating ability to connect to very cold and very warm parts and maintain a temperature gradient across materials ability to maintain a vacuum in the sample mounting volume and ease of access to the sample mounting region from a detachable access plate. When free space apertures are used in some parts the vacuum will not be maintained when material is removed leaving a hole. However if holes are created and then filled with a vacuum tight transparent material i.e. windows with sealed joints the vacuum will be maintained.

The NTIS is designed to operate with a temperature gradient across it so that some parts of the assembly are at room temperature i.e. 300 K and other parts at a cryogenic temperature i.e. 4 K and the gradient across the parts between them creates an effective mode of operation. The nested design takes the layers of a thermally insulating material or materials and folds them to create a compact stiff structure. This reduces vibrations from external sources by having the sample mount as close to the reference support shown in as possible. If the NTIS were unfolded to create a stiff tower instead of a nested structure the vibrations would be larger due to the higher moment forces on the structure.

The nested structure is designed to maintain low thermal conductivity while at the same time keeping stiffness as high as possible to maintain low vibrations. Materials suited well for the thermally insulating material include glass fiber and epoxy resin G 10 Fiberglass polyaryletheretherketone PEEK glass ceramics such as Macor carbon fiber Avia Fiberglass poly N N p p oxydiphenylene pyromellitimide Vespel and other such materials with low thermal conductivity and high stiffness in a readily available form that is readily manufactured or machined.

Metallic parts as described are chosen and used such that they provide good thermal conductivity and are rigid and typically are chosen so that they are not too heavy relatively cheap and easy to machine when possible. For example copper is a good metal for some of the parts but can be difficult to machine and is heavy and more expensive. Copper is thus used for parts like the mounting plate and for the radiation shield where very high thermal conductivity is needed. Oxygen free high conductivity OFHC copper is used. For the other metallic parts aluminum is often chosen since it is rigid relatively cheap and easy to machine. Other metal choices could be but are not limited to stainless steel or copper.

An embodiment of the NTIS the materials used and the connections to other parts both externally to other subassemblies and internally to the NTIS will now be described.

As shown in the NTIS connects to a cryo cooler via the thermal links as follows high temperature thermal link portions link one tube coupler to the high temperature cold finger . In addition the sample mount is linked to the low temperature cold finger via the low temperature thermal link portions and is supported by vacuum shroud .

As shown in the NTIS mount flange is a metallic structure e.g. aluminum that allows the entire NTIS to be secured to a reference plane. The mount flange is connected to the outer thermally insulated tube and is attached via epoxy bondings. In addition the outer thermally insulated tube is attached to the tube coupler which also has a metallic structure.

In total three parts within the NTIS specifically the outer thermally insulated tube the middle thermally insulated tube and the inner thermally insulated tube are each connected and secured to metallic flanges by means of epoxy bonds see with high coefficient of thermal expansion CTE materials outside of lower CTE materials.

Turning back to the mount flange at 300 K is connected to the outer thermally insulated tube via epoxy bonding. The outer thermally insulated tube has a temperature gradient throughout its length and then supports the radiation shield mount also called a tube coupler via epoxy bonding. shows the radiation shield mount is cooled to 40 K by high temperature thermal links that are attached to the cryo cooler radiation shield that is cooled by the high temperature cold finger .

As is shown in the radiation shield mount is connected to the middle thermally insulated tube via epoxy bonding where the structure now goes back in the opposite direction and in doing so creates an insulating gap. The middle insulating tube part is connected to tube coupler via epoxy bonding. The tube coupler is then connected to the inner thermally insulated tube via epoxy bonding. The inner thermally insulated tube is formed in the opposite direction again creating a second insulating gap and then is connected to via epoxy bonding and supports the sample mount . Sample mount at 4 K is connected via the low temperature thermal link portion to the low temperature cold finger which cools the plate shown in . A sample can be mounted to sample mount . A radiation shield is used to minimize heat load between the outer and middle structure tubes and . Radiation shield also referred to as tubular radiation shield is at 40 K and thus reduces heat from radiation. A further removable radiation shield cap at 40 K is attached at the opening to the NTIS to block any radiation heat loads from the bottom.

During cold operation there is a temperature gradient on both the middle thermally insulated tube and the inner thermally insulated tube between the radiation shield mount at 40 K and the sample mount at 4 K. Heat is conducted away and is cooled by the low temperature thermal link portions that are connected to the low temperature cold finger .

The mount flange is connected to the bottom vacuum housing at 300 K to support the NTIS to a reference plane and house the structure in a vacuum vessel along with the cryo cooler for cryogenic cooling. A bottom access vacuum plate is attached to the bottom vacuum housing so that the NTIS may be easily accessed. As shown in there is a gap between the radiation shield cap at 40 K and the bottom access vacuum plate at 300 K so that the temperature differential can be obtained. A top vacuum housing is attached to the bottom vacuum housing and encompasses the cryo cooler . A cold head adapter flange that allows many different cryo coolers to be adapted to the vacuum vessel is then attached to the top of the top vacuum housing to support the high temperature cold finger .

This embodiment includes an integrated mounting flange which serves to support the other elements via the outer thermally insulated tube which supports the structure for its attachment to a common reference plane of the vacuum shroud . However this is not critical or required for assembly since the outer thermally insulated tube could connect to the vacuum shroud directly where a feature like the mount flange can be machined into the cryo cooler . The outer thermally insulated tube can then be attached via epoxy bonding to the modified vacuum shroud at the bottom vacuum housing . This feature also allows the NTIS to be removed and re inserted easily from the cryo cooler . This feature also allows an easy interface with the thermally insulating material which is normally hard to thread or machine in general.

The NTIS acts as an independent structure. All the mounts for samples and the base mount are included in the structure along with the mounts for thermal links for both the radiation shield 40 K and cold stage 4 K . The sample mount flange on the NTIS allows for a wide variety of samples to be bolted directly to the mount.

Referring now to when optical access is required radiation windows located on the radiation shield are present to shield the sample at 4 K from the surrounding 300 K radiation. Also portions of the tube material are removable to provide optical access. Windows are installable in some all or none of the parts depending on the application. A means to install replace and maintain radiation windows is described for the tubular radiation shield . The tubular radiation shield can be accessed by removal of the bottom access vacuum plate and the radiation shield cap . The radiation shield mount has pressed in locating pins so that radiation shield can be removed and then repeatedly located and oriented correctly to the radiation shield mount before the interface is bolted together. The mounting of the tubular radiation shield to the radiation shield mount is achieved via first aligning pins not shown that are inside of the joint between the tubular radiation shield to the radiation shield mount . Then pre drilled counter bored holes that run nearly the full length of the tubular radiation shield allow for the use of a bolt to secure the tubular radiation shield to pre tapped threaded holes in the radiation shield mount which enables good thermal contact between the parts. With the tubular radiation shield removed one can also readily access and maintain the radiation windows as well as to wire additional electrical connections to the sample space.

The sample mount can be custom designed to have many different standard bolt patterns and holes from which to choose. This allows for almost all standard samples to be directly bolted to the sample mount without further modification.

In one embodiment there is free space optical access provided to the sample space . This is shown in . This access allows for free space optical beams to pass through the sample space in order to interact with the sample . This access could also be used for free space illumination laser beams microscopes or simply visual access to the sample. Accordingly when there are holes in the free space access design there are also holes in the vacuum shroud with optical window ports which accommodate radiation shield windows. Radiation windows are bolted to the tubular radiation shield with added free space optical apertures ports. The entire NTIS is at the same pressure as the vacuum vessel therefore if the windows are not used they do not need to seal for any pressure differential. The outer middle and inner thermally insulated tubes and are also modified likewise to have open optical apertures.

There are many connection joints located in the NTIS which allow for operation at low temperatures and low vibration. An example of an epoxy joint in the structure is shown in . Due to the CTE mismatch between the thermally insulating tubes and and the tube couplers and the joints may be compromised if not designed correctly. All epoxy joints in the NTIS use capture joints where a capture joint is one where the higher CTE parts are on the outside of the parts with a lower CTE. Thus capture joints are used to accommodate for a difference in thermal expansion of the materials i.e. glass fiber epoxy resin and aluminum . For example as much as 0.007 inch difference in thermal expansion between these parts occurs between assembly at 300 K and operation at 4 K. This difference in thermal expansion could lead to separation in the parts and would induce very large stresses on the epoxy bonds in tension and over many cycles will cause the bonds to fail. The use of capture joints ensures that epoxy bonds will be in compression and will induce less stress than otherwise and not pull apart the epoxy joint during thermal cycles. Additionally it is desirable to use an epoxy capable of operating at cryogenic temperatures and withstanding the shock of several thermal cycles and low outgassing. A typical epoxy used is Masterbond part EP29LPSP.

The connection between the radiation shield mount and the tubular radiation shield as a bolted joint of two pieces of aluminum is shown in . In other embodiments the NTIS may have any number N of thermally insulated tubes with N 1 tube couplers. For example is a representation of another embodiment of the NTIS which has 5 thermally insulated tube sections and 4 tube couplers. As is shown an inner thermally insulated tube is attached to the sample mount . The tube coupler joins the inner thermally insulated tube with the middle thermally insulated tube . An inner intermediate thermally insulated tube is joined to the middle thermally insulated tube via the tube coupler and to an outer intermediate thermally insulated tube via tube coupler . The outer intermediate thermally insulated tube is connected to the outer thermally insulated tube via another tube coupler . A radiation shield not shown may be placed between either the outer thermally insulated tube and the outer intermediate thermally insulated tube between the middle thermally insulated tube and the inner intermediate thermally insulated tube or optionally in both locations. The sample mount has an upper surface and lower surface the lower surface in direct contact with the end of the inner thermally insulated tube opposite the end in contact with the tube coupler . A sample chamber for housing a sample is located above the arrangement of tube couplers and and thermally insulated tubes and . The sample chamber is defined by the sample mount upper surface forming a base for the sample chamber a top portion opposite the sample mount upper surface and a radial tube portion connecting the sample mount upper surface and top portion .

The thermal link provides the means of heat transfer while minimizing the transfer of mechanical vibrations from the cryo cooler to the NTIS and eventually to the sample assembly .

The thermal link is in two portions. High temperature thermal link portion is used to connect the radiation shield mount to the high temperature cold finger and low temperature thermal link portion is used to connect the sample mount to the low temperature cold finger . Each thermal link portion can be one or more of the assemblies described in this section. A more flexible thermal link improves the effectiveness of the isolation of mechanical vibrations between the cryo cooler and sample by simply applying a smaller force on the sample mount . This is because more flexible thermal links deflect with less force. The motion of the cryo cooler vibrating while it runs therefore translates into a smaller force on the sample when softer thermal links are used.

However there is a fundamental tradeoff between thermal conductivity and stiffness. When thermal links are made longer or with a smaller cross sectional area the thermal links become less stiff and therefore transfer fewer mechanical vibrations. The tradeoff is that this causes the thermal links to transfer less heat over the greater distance. Similarly the thermal links can be made shorter and thicker to accommodate higher rates of thermal transfer but with more mechanical vibrations being coupled through the thermal link.

Proper heat treatment of metallic materials minimizes internal stresses within the material and maximize the size of grains within the material thus producing a softer and more thermally conductive material.

The physical geometry of the link plays a key role in its stiffness as well as its thermal conductivity. Thermal links can take many different geometric forms the most common of which is stacks of thin sheets of thermally conductive material for example copper.

The most effective geometry for improving the flexibility of the thermal links is to use groups of very fine wires. The wires are oriented such that minimal twisting braiding or interweaving of the wires occurs. This allows each individual wire to move independent of the wires surrounding it thereby minimizing the overall stiffness of the thermal link. The ends of the wire are pressed together using heat and pressure to form solid ends known as forged ends which can be used as an attachment point for the thermal link. The forged ends are typically bored with a hole and thus can be mechanically attached using a bolt to a receptive threaded bolt hole in the linking part. Indium foil can be used in the mounting interface to lower the contact resistance. However other methods for attaching thermal links known in the art can also be employed.

Other embodiments of the thermal links for low vibration operation use more than 1000 wires. In one embodiment approximately 10 000 independent oxygen free high conductivity OFHC copper wires each having a measurement of 44 awg 0.002 inch diameter are bunched together to make a single thermal link with forged ends. The thousands of small wires produce a thermal link that is significantly more flexible than the strap design as shown in while transferring heat only slightly less efficiently. An example of a multi wire link with forged ends is shown in .

The cooled components within the cryostat are held in a vacuum environment maintained by a vacuum shroud as shown in . The bottom vacuum housing is a main housing for the NTIS and supports the upper vacuum housing and the coldhead . The vacuum plate is used to access the sample mounting volume or sample chamber . The upper vacuum housing is typically round aluminum tubing which is used to support the cryo cooler head . The adapter plate is made to attach to the upper vacuum housing to adapt the housing to the cryo cooler cold head that is desired for use. All parts typically operate at a temperature of 300 K.

As noted this entire vacuum shroud assembly also is used as a mechanical support for the cryo cooler and various internal components. The vacuum environment serves to eliminate heat transfer through the atmosphere that would otherwise be present within the system. In addition the vacuum environment also eliminates any gas or vapor from the presence of cooled components where it could condense or freeze.

The vacuum housing and the NTIS have universal parts for most commercial off the shelf cryo cooler heads. This design principle allows for multiple cryo cooler heads to be fitted to the same vibration isolation system. Multiple cryo cooler heads can be fitted to the same vibration isolation system with modifications on only three different parts. When changing the cold head over to another type the transition only requires a modified radiation shield a new cold head adaptor collar and a mount for the 4 K thermal links. These three parts are relatively easy to manufacture making conversion simple. This basic setup uses stock aluminum tubing for the top of the vacuum shroud and square tubing for the bottom of the shroud.

The choice of materials for the vacuum shroud are optimized to provide rigidity low cost ease of manufacturing and low weight. These parts do not need to be highly thermally conductive. In one embodiment the vacuum shroud portions are made from aluminum which is sufficient but not required. Optionally these parts could be made from plastic fiberglass composite stainless steel and other materials sufficient for vacuum.

The vacuum shroud can also be made to minimize the upper exterior shroud diameter which will help decrease the radiation load on the entire system. This upper vacuum housing can be sized such that it closely contours the exterior dimension of the cryo cooler so as to minimize radiation heat transfer from the room temperature vacuum shroud and the cooler cryo cooler .

A method in which the disclosed cryo cooler vibration isolation assembly is integrated together will now be described with reference to and .

The NTIS is attached to the cold head in two places with the use of thermal links . The first attachment connects the cryo cooler radiation shield to a set of high temperature thermal link portions typically two or more links to the tube coupler . This provides a sink for the majority of the thermal energy from ambient and cools the tubular radiation shield which surrounds the inner cold sample . A second attachment point attaches the sample mount to the low temperature cold finger with a set of low temperature thermal link portions . This then cools the sample to the colder temperature near or below 4 K. The tube couplers and act as permanent mounting points for the thermal links which allow unlimited sample changes without moving or resetting the thermal links . Additionally an indium sheet is used in between all joints of all thermal link attachments not shown to minimize the thermal contact resistance. Specifically this indium is used between the cryo cooler radiation shield and the high temperature thermal link portion the high temperature thermal link portion and the tube coupler the low temperature thermal link portion and the low temperature thermal link portion and the low temperature thermal link portion and the sample mount . This also enables a user to access the sample mount without disconnecting the link connections.

Additionally in certain embodiments a NTIS can also be used as an independent vacuum housing to allow for quick sample access without breaking vacuum in the rest of the housing. This allows for convenient user operation. The user can make sample changes quicker since the time to evacuate the relatively small sample mounting volume will be less than if the entire vacuum apparatus was to be contaminated and then re evacuated. In this embodiment the following procedures apply which will be understood by anyone skilled in the art of vacuum vessels and cryo coolers.

First prior to assembly and cold operation heaters are attached to tube coupler and sample mount via electronic connections thru the vacuum vessel. Second when the cryo cooler assembly is cold and operational and it is desired to change samples the heaters are activated to raise the temperature of the cold components within the NTIS specifically tube coupler and sample mount to nearly room temperature. A temperature gradient will then result across the sample mount to the low temperature thermal link portion specifically across the low temperature thermal link portion and cryo cooler radiation shield . Third the vacuum held within the NTIS specifically in the sample mounting volume is contaminated or released by removing vacuum plate and removable radiation shield . A certain amount of force will be holding that plate down so a vacuum release valve not shown could be engineered into vacuum plate and removable radiation shield or alternatively the force could be overcome manually. Fourth the sample is changed or replaced. Fifth vacuum plate and removable radiation shield is installed. Sixth vacuum is reestablished in the sample mounting volume. This could be achieved with a vacuum access and pumping port and valve added to vacuum plate in several different embodiments depending on the orientation of the NTIS and dimensions of the parts used not shown . Seventh the heater is turned off and the cryo cooler and assembly are then able to cool again to cryogenic temperatures.

Alternatively the same kind of heaters in the same kind of configuration can be used to heat a sample to temperatures 4 K.

To better understand the components that make up the disclosed system a visual thermal model of the vibration isolated cryo cooler is provided. This allows a visual description of the temperature of all components while operating at steady state. shows a full thermal model of a vibration isolated cryogenic apparatus according to the present disclosure.

The components with the lightest color are at higher temperatures 300 K while components with a darkest color are at cryogenic temperatures 4 K . is a view of the NTIS. This view clarifies how parts interface in this complex part of the cryo cooler. As can be seen in the parts at cryogenic temperatures are the low temperature cold finger and the low temperature thermal link portion . Parts at intermediate temperature i.e. 4 K to 40 K are the high temperature cold finger the cryo cooler radiation shield the high temperature thermal link portion and the inner thermally insulated tube . The other portions of the apparatus are at greater than 40 K.

Vibration data is presented for both a Gifford McMahon style cryo cooler specifically a SHI model RDK 101D cryo cooler from Sumitomo Heavy Industries Cryogenics of America Sunnyvale Calif. and a pulse tube cryo cooler specifically a Cryomech model PT 405 cryo cooler from Cryomech Inc. Syracuse N.Y. as each modified with parts as illustrated in . These modifications used a NTIS with three thermally insulting tubes two tube couplers Masterbond epoxy joints a removable tubular radiation shield a removable radiation shield plate as well using flexible wire thermal links comprised of 10 000 wires of 44 American Wire Gauge AWG OFHC copper with forged ends. The difference between these two closed cycle cryo coolers is the mechanical cycle used to produce cooling. Both of these use pressure cycles to produce cooling however the pulse tube has no moving cold components while the Gifford McMahon does have moving parts. Since the two cycles differ due to the presence or absence of moving parts these two systems have different frequency plots and therefore when combined with our vibration isolation system are useful for different frequency spectra depending on the application. The Gifford McMahon SHI RDK 101D cryo coolers tend to have less noise in the high frequency range above 50 Hz while the Pulse Tube Cryomech PT 405 cryo coolers tend to have less noise below 50 Hz.

Vibration data that was obtained on a vibration isolated SHI RDK 101D 4K cryo cooler operating near 4 K is shown. For the SHI RDK 101D 4K cryo cooler in summary the results show a maximum vibration level of approximately 50 nm on the X axis at 1.4 Hz. Not shown are Y and Z data which have approximately 20 nm on the Y axis at 1.4 Hz and approximately 10 nm displacement at the same frequency respectively.

Representative data was also taken on a pulse tube Cryomech PT 405 cryo cooler. Since there are no moving parts in this head more gas has to flow in order to fill and drain the head therefore the high frequency noise is greater.

The present disclosure can be practiced by employing conventional materials methodology and equipment. Accordingly the details of such materials equipment and methodology are not set forth herein in detail. In the previous descriptions numerous specific details are set forth such as specific materials structures chemicals processes etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However it should be recognized that the present disclosure can be practiced without resorting to the details specifically set forth. In other instances well known processing structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure.

Only a few examples of the present disclosure are shown and described herein. It is to be understood that the disclosure is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concepts as expressed herein.

