---

title: Method and system for managing quality of service policies
abstract: A method includes receiving an indication relating to an invocation of an application by a mobile device; determining, in response to the indication, a quality of service based on a provisioning parameter; and instructing a network element of a communications network to manage traffic relating to the application based on the quality of service and a loading condition in the communications network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09414259&OS=09414259&RS=09414259
owner: AT & T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09414259
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121211
---
Quality of Service QoS policies are typically implemented within a telecommunications network in order to provide for proper prioritization and routing of different types of traffic. Such policies may enable users or applications on telecommunications network to receive preferential treatment within the network. Standard implementations of QoS policies allow for the policies to be configured only on a static basis meaning that application or forwarding class mixtures i.e. QoS profiles are set and do not change over time.

The exemplary embodiments are directed to a method including receiving an indication relating to an invocation of an application by a mobile device determining in response to the indication a quality of service based on a provisioning parameter and instructing a network element of a communications network to manage traffic relating to the application based on the quality of service and a loading condition in the communications network.

The exemplary embodiments are further directed to policy server for a communications network including a memory storing a set of instructions. The policy server also includes a processor executing the set of instructions to perform operations including receiving an indication relating to an invocation of an application by a mobile device determining in response to the indication a quality of service based on a provisioning parameter and instructing a network element of the communications network to manage traffic relating to the application based on the quality of service and a loading condition within the communications network.

The exemplary embodiments are further directed to a tangible computer readable storage medium storing a set of instructions executable by a processor. When executed by the processor the instructions cause the processor to perform operations including receiving an indication relating to an invocation of an application by a mobile device determining in response to the indication a quality of service based on a provisioning parameter and instructing a network element of a communications network to manage traffic relating to the application based on the quality of service and a loading condition of the communications network.

The exemplary embodiments may be further understood with reference to the following description and the related appended drawings wherein like elements are provided with the same reference numerals. Specifically the exemplary embodiments relate to methods and systems for managing quality of service QoS policies in a telecommunications network.

Telecommunications providers typically implement QoS policies for controlling the various types of traffic that they transport. Such policies are commonly used to ensure that computer networks are capable of providing an acceptable user experience for voice communications over data networks e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol . QoS policies may prevent transmission problems such as low throughput dropped packets corrupted packets latency jitter and out of order packet delivery. While QoS policies may be most commonly used to provide for suitable quality for voice communications they may also be used for various other types of data transfer having specific service requirements e.g. online gaming video chat online video viewing etc. .

Various mechanisms may be used to implement QoS policies. Network service providers may generate the capacity for high level QoS settings by over provisioning a network so that the network s capacity is based on peak traffic loading levels. Over provisioning may entail physical redundancy of network links but may be wasteful during some use cases due to varying numbers of network users. Additionally because the Internet is not a single network but rather a network of different networks maintained by different providers simple over provisioning of one provider s network may be insufficient to provide different QoS settings. Thus the Differentiated Services DiffServ protocol may also typically be used for implementing QoS settings across different service provider networks. Using DiffServ packets are marked according to the type of service they are to receive and network switching equipment then uses various routing and queuing strategy to provide the required performance. This may involve giving packets having high QoS requirements priority over other packets in queues. In another embodiment the Integrated Services IntServ protocol may be used under this protocol applications may use the Resource Reservation RSVP protocol to request and reserve resources within a network.

Typically QoS policies for telecommunications services may be set as part of a user s service plan. Users may have the option to pay premium rates for higher QoS settings or may agree to accept lower QoS settings in exchange for discounted rates. However existing network hardware and settings may have any type of control mechanism to respond to changing behavior at customer endpoints. QoS settings may typically be predetermined as part of a user s subscription plan as described above. However a user endpoint may have changing types of requirements for differing types of applications such as requiring high reliability for online gaming or low jitter for video streaming. It will be apparent that these requirements may change over time. Because of these changing requirements the standard static QoS policies do not work well. Rather users may wish to be able to request differing behavior i.e. differing QoS settings for a short period of time rather than having preprovisioned QoS. Additionally users may wish to have their telecommunications provider be able to detect the launch of an application requiring a different QoS determine whether the user has access to different QoS for that application and adjust performance accordingly.

The service provider network may be accessed by a user device . The user device may be any type of device with which a user may access a telecommunications network e.g. a mobile device a desktop computer a set top box etc. . A user of the user device may wish to receive modified QoS for a session of an application and may access such service according to methods that will be described in further detail below. In some cases the modified QoS may be improved QoS in order to provide an improved user experience for applications such as Voice over Internet Protocol or streaming video in other cases the modified QoS may be decreased QoS which the user of user device may agree to receive in exchange for a discount on service fees. The request may involve the use of computing system such as a notebook or desktop computer to access the access element and directly request modified QoS. In some embodiments the user device and the computing system may be the same device e.g. a smartphone and the user may access access element directly from user device .

The modified QoS may be requested in order to provide a change in the quality of access to a destination via the Internet . Those of skill in the art will understand that the use of the term destination is not intended to be limiting as to the type of communication between the user device and the destination . The destination may be any other network destination to which the user of the user device may wish to connect for any purpose e.g. voice communication video chat gaming viewing of streaming video etc. thus for some types of application such as viewing streaming video the destination may in fact be the source of the data to be transmitted with improved quality of service.

It will be apparent to those of skill in the art that the illustration of a single base station aggregator and gateway is only an example intended to illustrate one path of network traffic from user device to destination and that other provider networks may include varying types or numbers of network routing components. It will be further apparent to those of skill in the art that in other exemplary embodiments a provider network may include components providing functions other than those directly related to traffic routing and that those other types of components may also be instructed to behave in a manner so as to provide for modified QoS settings in accordance with the exemplary methods which will be described hereinafter. Such components may include a network management platform a data gathering platform an alarming system a network telemetry gathering system etc. Additionally while illustrates a destination that is external to provider network in another exemplary embodiment the destination being accessed by user device may be disposed within the provider network in a further exemplary embodiment there may be destinations both within and external to provider network .

In step the user of the user device requests modified QoS settings for a communications session using a given application on the user device . In one exemplary embodiment the request may include a period of time for which the modified QoS settings are to be in effect. As described above this may be accomplished by contacting the access element either using user device itself or a separate computing system in order to inform policy server of the request for modified QoS settings. Additionally depending on the options the provider of service provider network may choose to offer to its users the user s request may contain different levels of detail. For example the request may be abstract e.g. the user may simply be able to request improved performance in a generalized manner without providing any detail may be selected from a plurality of quality levels e.g. the user may be able to select Minor Boost or Major Boost or may be a request for a specific type of modified QoS e.g. the user may be able to select Improved Download Rate Improved Upload Rate Improved Reliability etc. .

In step the policy server receives data relating to the request either from user device or computing system via the access element . In step the policy server collects data relating to loading conditions within the provider network e.g. traffic and usage data from the base station gateway and aggregator and other elements of the provider not specifically mentioned herein. Data received may include the amount of traffic currently being handled by each element of the provider network e.g. each base station each gateway and each aggregator present within the provider network the type or types of traffic currently being handled by each element of the provider network the priority of the various traffic currently being handled by each element of the provider network and similar data relating to traffic being received by the provider network from the Internet and vice versa.

In step the policy server determines based on the data received in step an appropriate action or actions to undertake in order to implement the modified QoS requested in step . In one exemplary embodiment this may include the use of DiffServ packet markings as described above in order to indicate the packets that should be receiving preferential QoS treatment. In another exemplary embodiment this may involve the use of IntServ reservations to allow the application launched in step to reserve resources within the provider network . This determination may be based solely on the request for modified QoS or may be further based on conditions within the provider network overall. For example if the data retrieved from the components of the provider network indicate that an emergency situation is extant e.g. a natural disaster and that the provider network is being used by emergency personnel e.g. police fire departments emergency medical personnel fewer or less potent actions may be taken to implement the requested QoS than if no such situation is extant.

The determination of step may also be based on the requests received within substantially the same time interval from other user devices communicating with the provider network . For example stronger preferential QoS treatment may be provided to the user device if there are few other user devices that are simultaneously requesting improved QoS treatment than if there are a comparatively larger number of user devices making such requests. The determination of step may also be based on the timing of the request of step . For example if the user device has requested preferential QoS treatment during off peak hours the measures taken to provide such treatment may be greater than those taken if the request was made during peak hours. The different factors considered in making the determination of step may be weighted based on importance or other criteria e.g. an emergency condition requiring bandwidth or other network resources to be available for emergency personnel may outweigh a user request for improved QoS .

The determination of step may also be based on the application launched by the user in step . This may be based on the type of the application i.e. different types of preferential QoS treatment may be appropriate for a video chat session than for an online game or the specific identity of the application e.g. a global positioning service application that is provided to users for a premium fee may also entitle the user to better preferential QoS treatment .

In step the policy server propagates the specific policy decisions relating to the modified QoS treatment to various destinations. This may involve instructing the user device to mark packets appropriately for the modified QoS e.g. using DiffServ markings instructing the components of the provider network e.g. base station aggregator and gateway to treat the packets generated by the user device according to the modified QoS treatment etc. The policy server may also be linked with the destination whether the destination is within or external to the provider network and may instruct the policy server to treat packets associated with communication with the user device in accordance with the modified QoS treatment.

In step the operation of the application being run by user device proceeds in accordance with the policy decisions made in step and propagated in step . As noted above this may involve the user device marking packets relating to the application in an appropriate manner as well as the base station aggregator and gateway routing traffic relating to the application accordingly. In step the session of application on the user device terminates. In some exemplary embodiments in response to the termination of the session in step the policy server may revert the policy changes that were made in steps and the user device base station aggregator and gateway return to operating as they did before the initiation of the method . In another exemplary embodiment the request of step may specify a time limit for the modified QoS settings to be in effect and the settings may revert after the conclusion of the time limit. After step the method terminates.

In step a request for modified QoS treatment is generated for an application to be run on user device . As noted above the request may be made by the user of the user device at the time of signing up for service or as an option in an online account management interface. In some embodiments the request may be for a class of applications e.g. all applications involving video streaming rather than simply for a single application. The request may be made using an interface on the user device itself or through a different device such as by accessing access element using computing system . The request may be received by policy server associated with the user and the user device and stored for subsequent retrieval e.g. in a database as will be described in further detail below.

In another embodiment the request of step may be made by the destination . In one such exemplary embodiment the destination may be a large scale content provider e.g. a creator and or distributor of entertainment content and may arrange with the provider of provider network for content from destination to receive preferential QoS treatment to users of devices such as user device or to a subset of users e.g. users matching a given demographic profile in order to provide for a positive user experience. This may be desirable by such a destination in order to encourage the user of user device to subscribe to premium services offered by the destination make related purchases of physical media etc.

In step the policy server receives data relating to the invocation of application on user device . This step may be substantially similar to step of method except that as noted above it need not be substantially concurrent with the generation of the request in step but rather may typically be subsequent to the generation of the request. In step the policy server receives data relating to traffic and usage within the provider network from the base station gateway and aggregator in the manner described above with reference to step . In addition based on the indication of the invocation of the application the policy server accesses and retrieves the data relating to the request for modified QoS treatment of step .

In step the policy server determines based on the data received in step an appropriate action or actions to undertake in order to implement the modified QoS requested in step . This step may proceed in a substantially similar manner to step of method . In step the policy server propagates the specific policy decisions relating to the modified QoS treatment to various recipients i.e. the elements of the provider network and the destination in the manner described above with reference to step of method .

In step the operation of the application being run by user device proceeds in accordance with the policy decisions made in step and propagated in step . As noted above this may involve the user device marking packets relating to the application in an appropriate manner as well as the base station aggregator and gateway routing traffic relating to the application accordingly. In step the application session on the user device terminates. As noted above in some exemplary embodiments after the termination of the session in step the policy server may revert the policy changes that were made in steps and the user device base station aggregator and gateway may return to operating as they did before the initiation of the method . After step the method terminates.

As noted above in contrast to the request for modified QoS for a single session of application governed by method method involves preprovisioning so that the user of user device does not have to manually request modified QoS each time the application is to be launched. Thus it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that by including step the method describes an initial preprovisioning of the user device and application . In subsequent performances of the method the user of user device may begin its performance by executing the application i.e. step of method and the method will proceed in substantially the same manner without the need to again perform the preprovisioning of step . However because the overall loading conditions of provider network may be different during each invocation of application the specific implementation of modified QoS i.e. the performance of steps may be different during each such invocation rather than simply treating each invocation of application in an identical manner.

In another broader implementation the policy server may analyze patterns of requests for improved QoS made over the course of multiple performances of the methods and . In such an embodiment and may provide a recommendation to the provider of provider network of a manner in which the provider might develop and provision the provider network in order that it may be best equipped to handle subsequent requests for modified QoS settings. As will be apparent to those of skill in the art such recommendations might include the addition of more base stations to the provider network redistribution of existing base stations reinforcement of network links within the provider network etc.

The exemplary embodiments have been described specifically with reference to a single policy server that collects all relevant data requests for modified QoS network usage data indications of emergency conditions etc. performs analysis of the relevant data and propagates QoS related policies throughout the provider network . However it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that a large scale provider network may include multiple policy servers e.g. one for each of a plurality of regions of the provider network . Additionally the tasks described above as being performed by the policy server may be divided among more than one element e.g. a policy server collecting data and propagating policies and an analysis server analyzing the data to determine how to implement the policies .

The exemplary embodiments described above may provide advantages to the provider maintaining the provider network . The provider maintaining the provider network may be able to offer users a greater variety of options for modified QoS on both preprovisioned and on demand basis. QoS changes may be accomplished at the time that the changes are needed rather than needing to be configured statically and may be determined based on various conditions within a network and QoS requests by other devices rather than simply based on the QoS requirements of the requesting device. By providing a wider variety of QoS options to users new sources of revenue for the provider may become available. The provider may also be able to enter into agreements with providers of content to users who may wish to have their content delivered at improved QoS levels and realize new streams of revenue on this basis as well.

The exemplary embodiments described may also provide advantages the user of the user device . The user may be able to have added flexibility to request modified QoS settings such as being able to request improved QoS only for a certain class of programs only for a certain program or only for a certain session of a certain program. This may enable the user to have a better user experience and more close control over the increased expenditure incurred by requesting modified QoS.

Those of skill in the art will understand that the above described exemplary embodiments may be implemented in any number of manners including as a software module as a combination of hardware and software etc. For example the exemplary methods and may be embodied in a program stored in a non transitory storage medium and containing lines of code that when compiled may be executed by a processor the memory and processor may be elements of the policy server .

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made to the exemplary embodiments without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention described in the claims. Thus it is intended that the invention described in the claims covers modifications and variations provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

