---

title: Method and apparatus for unplanned deployment of base stations
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided that include deploying a femto node in a wireless network. The femto node can measure received signal quality upon initialization in a wireless network and/or according to a timing. The femto node can determine whether to communicate in the wireless network based on comparing the received signal quality to a threshold signal quality. The timing can be determined based on various factors to ensure fairness among femto nodes initializing in the wireless network. A centralized entity can be used to determine the timing and/or whether a femto node should communicate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08989794&OS=08989794&RS=08989794
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08989794
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120619
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 498 968 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR UNPLANNED DEPLOYMENT OF FEMTOCELLS filed Jun. 20 2011 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following description relates generally to wireless network communications and more particularly to deployment of low power base stations in a wireless network.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like. Additionally the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project 3GPP e.g. 3GPP LTE Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced ultra mobile broadband UMB evolution data optimized EV DO etc.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations. Further communications between mobile devices and base stations may be established via single input single output SISO systems multiple input single output MISO systems multiple input multiple output MIMO systems and so forth.

To supplement conventional base stations additional restricted base stations can be deployed to provide more robust wireless coverage to mobile devices. For example wireless relay stations and low power base stations e.g. which can be commonly referred to as Home NodeBs or Home eNBs collectively referred to as H e NBs femto nodes pico nodes etc. can be deployed for incremental capacity growth richer user experience in building or other specific geographic coverage and or the like. Such low power base stations can be connected to the Internet via broadband connection e.g. digital subscriber line DSL router cable or other modem etc. which can provide the backhaul link to the mobile operator s network. Thus for example the low power base stations can be deployed in user homes to provide mobile network access to one or more devices via the broadband connection. Because deployment of such base stations is unplanned low power base stations can interfere with one another where multiple stations are deployed within a close vicinity of one another.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof the present disclosure describes various aspects in connection with determining whether to transmit from a low power base station and or a power for transmitting from the low power base station based on measuring signal quality received at the low power base station. In this regard in one example substantial interference to one or more other base stations can be avoided by not allowing the low power base station to transmit where the received signal quality is over a threshold. Comparing measured signal quality to the threshold and or accordingly setting a transmit power or determining whether to transmit can be performed by the low power base station e.g. in collaboration with one or more other low power base stations or otherwise by a centralized entity communicating with a plurality of low power base stations and or the like. Moreover in an example calibration among low power base stations can be periodically performed in a round robin manner to ensure that substantially all associated low power base stations have an opportunity to transmit over a given period of time.

According to an aspect a method for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided. The method includes determining a timing for measuring a received signal quality in the wireless network and measuring the received signal quality based on the timing. The method further includes determining whether to communicate in the wireless network based in part on comparing the received signal quality to a threshold signal quality.

In another aspect an apparatus for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to determine a timing for measuring a received signal quality in the wireless network and measure the received signal quality based on the timing. The at least one processor is further configured to determine whether to communicate in the wireless network based in part on comparing the received signal quality to a threshold signal quality. The apparatus further includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided. The apparatus includes means for determining a timing for measuring a received signal quality in the wireless network and measuring the received signal quality based on the timing. The apparatus further includes means for determining whether to communicate in the wireless network based in part on comparing the received signal quality to a threshold signal quality.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided including a non transitory computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to determine a timing for measuring a received signal quality in the wireless network and code for causing the at least one computer to measure the received signal quality based on the timing. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to determine whether to communicate in the wireless network based in part on comparing the received signal quality to a threshold signal quality.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided that includes a parameter measuring component for determining a timing for measuring a received signal quality in the wireless network and measuring the received signal quality based on the timing. The apparatus further includes a transmit determining component for determining whether to communicate in the wireless network based in part on comparing the received signal quality to a threshold signal quality.

According to a further aspect a method for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided. The method includes determining a timing for a femto node to measure received signal quality in the wireless network to determine whether to communicate. The method further includes commanding the femto node to measure received signal quality based on the timing.

In another aspect an apparatus for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to determine a timing for a femto node to measure received signal quality in the wireless network to determine whether to communicate. The at least one processor is further configured to command the femto node to measure received signal quality based on the timing. The apparatus further includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided. The apparatus includes means for determining a timing for a femto node to measure received signal quality in the wireless network to determine whether to communicate. The apparatus further includes means for commanding the femto node to measure received signal quality based on the timing.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided including a non transitory computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to determine a timing for a femto node to measure received signal quality in the wireless network to determine whether to communicate. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to command the femto node to measure received signal quality based on the timing.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for deploying a femto node in a wireless network is provided that includes a transmit parameter determining component for determining a timing for a femto node to measure received signal quality in the wireless network to determine whether to communicate. The apparatus further includes a transmit parameter indicating component for commanding the femto node to measure received signal quality based on the timing.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As described further herein low power base stations such as femto nodes can measure one or more parameters of a wireless network environment to determine whether to transmit in the wireless network. For example a femto node can measure a signal quality of one or more signals received from one or more other nodes against a threshold to determine whether providing wireless service at the femto node might cause additional interference to the one or more other nodes or devices communicating therewith. In one example the threshold can be configured or otherwise determined based at least in part on one or more aspects of the wireless network environment. The measured signal quality can be a received signal strength indicator RSSI received signal code power RSCP a pilot energy Ecp signal to noise ratio SNR total received power to interference ratio Ecp Io and or similar signal quality or power parameters of the one or more other nodes.

In another example a centralized entity which can be another femto node femto node gateway etc. can receive signals measurements from the femto node for determining whether to allow one or more femto nodes to provide wireless service. Since deployment of such access points is typically unplanned such regulation of access points providing wireless service can mitigate over saturation of access points in an area while providing desirable wireless service coverage. In one example however this may result in one or more femto nodes lacking any transmission opportunities where the one or more femto nodes enter the wireless network while one neighboring femto nodes have established a transmit power and the one or more femto nodes determine that the signal quality is over the threshold. In this regard for example the femto nodes can calibrate power in a round robin manner where one or more femto nodes that have transmitted in previous time periods can be powered down or otherwise set to refrain from transmitting in a subsequent time period to allow other femto nodes to measure signal quality below a threshold and accordingly transmit.

A low power base station as referenced herein can include a femto node a pico node micro node home Node B or home evolved Node B H e NB relay and or other low power base stations and can be referred to herein using one of these terms though use of these terms is intended to generally encompass low power base stations. For example a low power base station transmits at a relatively low power as compared to a macro base station associated with a wireless wide area network WWAN . As such the coverage area of the low power base station can be substantially smaller than the coverage area of a macro base station.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution etc. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE etc. A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device a tablet a smart book a netbook or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem etc. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B evolved Node B eNB or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE LTE Advanced and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring to an exemplary autonomously controlled wireless communications system is illustrated including a plurality of femto nodes or other low power base stations in communication with an operator core network via a WAN . Femto nodes may include relatively low power equipment as described and may not be provided with a conventional transmission tower. Each femto node may be installed and activated in arbitrary chronological order at an unplanned location. For example a network operator may provide femto nodes to various different third parties. While the network operator may install and operate some femto nodes in the system each femto node may be autonomously controlled as described herein and can be added and removed from the system in a flexible ad hoc manner.

Each of the activated femto nodes may provide service to UEs such as UEs located within corresponding coverage areas . For example a coverage area may be provided by femto node and so forth. It should be appreciated that coverage areas may not have a regular or uniform geometrical shape and may vary in shape and extent based on local factors such as topology of the landscape and the presence or absence of blocking objects in an area. For example the femto nodes can initialize transmit power to establish coverage areas which can be performed based on a fixed transmit power or a transmit power received in a configuration a transmit power adjusted based on a determined radio environment and or the like.

Femto node can be deployed within the existing network including femto nodes . Upon powering on or as part of initialization or other procedure at femto node the femto node can determine whether to transmit in the wireless communication system and or a power at which to transmit based on measuring a received signal power or quality. This measurement can be performed over one or more channels the femto node plans to utilize in communicating in the wireless communication system . In one example femto node can compare the received signal quality to a threshold where the received signal quality is over the threshold e.g. and or equal to the threshold femto node can refrain from transmitting. Where the received signal quality is below the threshold e.g. and or equal to the threshold femto node can transmit and or select a transmit power relative to the received signal quality. In this regard where the received signal quality is over a threshold femto node can avoid interfering with femto nodes or more likely neighboring femto nodes as part of powering on or initializing in a wireless network.

In one example at least where the femto node determines not to transmit in the wireless network femto node can periodically perform the signal quality measurements and subsequent transmit determination to account for any changes in the network environment e.g. powering off or reduced transmit power of one or more of femto nodes and or the like . Moreover in an example a centralized entity can perform one or more of the described functions. For instance femto node can perform the signal quality measurements and report to the centralized entity e.g. in core network or WAN which can determine whether the femto node can transmit and or a transmit power therefor based on the signal quality measurements signal quality measurements performed by other neighboring femto nodes and or the like. In addition the centralized entity can obtain and utilize additional measurements such as loading location neighbor cell information and or the like as received from femto nodes and or to determine whether femto node can transmit and or a transmit power for femto node .

Furthermore in an example transmit power can be determined by or otherwise assigned to femto nodes and in a round robin manner to allow femto node to transmit where the signal quality measured by femto node is constantly greater than the threshold. In this example a centralized entity that communicates with at least femto nodes and and or one or more of the femto nodes and themselves can ensure that all associated femto nodes are at least able to measure signal quality below the threshold and thus transmit in a given period of time. Thus for example where femto node continually determines the signal quality is over the threshold one or more of femto nodes can reduce transmit power or otherwise refrain from transmitting for a period of time to allow femto node to determine the signal quality is under the threshold and accordingly transmit in wireless communication system . In another example the femto nodes and can periodically calibrate transmit power and or whether to transmit at different timing offsets to ensure fairness in determining which femto nodes transmit in a given time period. In either case the command to reduce transmit power or otherwise refrain from transmitting can come from the corresponding femto node or the centralized entity.

Turning to an example wireless communication system is illustrated for determining whether to provide service in a wireless network based on signals from one or more nodes. System includes a femto node as well as macro femto nodes and . Femto node as described can be substantially any low power base station device and or the like. In addition macro femto nodes and can each be a low power base station such as a femto node pico node micro node etc. a macro node a device e.g. communicating in peer to peer pr ad hoc mode with other devices a relay node and or the like.

Femto node includes a signal receiving component for obtaining one or more signals in a wireless network and a parameter measuring component for determining one or more parameters related to the one or more signals. Femto node also includes a transmit determining component for deciding whether to provide service in the wireless network by transmitting one or more signals based at least in part on the one or more parameters and or a power for transmitting such signals and a transmitting component for communicating in the wireless network.

According to an example macro femto nodes and can be deployed in the wireless network and can transmit signals to advertise wireless service to one or more devices not shown and or to otherwise communicate therewith. Macro femto nodes and can operate in a channel dedicated for such wireless service e.g. in a similar frequency space such that additional communications over the channel may cause interference thereto. In this example femto node can be deployed within a vicinity of macro femto nodes and and can thus detect signals therefrom. For example signal receiving component can receive signals from macro femto nodes and or devices communicating therewith etc. and parameter measuring component can determine one or more parameters related to the signals. Transmit determining component as described can compare the one or more parameters to one or more thresholds to determine whether femto node should also provide service in the wireless network. Transmitting component can accordingly transmit or refrain from transmitting signals related to providing wireless service.

In a specific example signal receiving component can receive signals over a frequency range within which the femto node intends to communicate. This can include receiving signals from macro femto nodes and and or other nodes or devices communicating therewith. Parameter measuring component can measure a signal quality over the frequency range based in part on the received signals. For example this can include measuring an RSSI Ecp Ecp Io SNR and or the like as related to the received signals. Transmit determining component can compare the signal quality measurement to a threshold. Where the signal quality is over the threshold this can indicate that allowing femto node to communicate in the network may cause additional undue interference in the wireless network.

For example the threshold can be configured by or otherwise received by femto node e.g. from a node of a core wireless network . The threshold can relate to a location of deployment for femto node in one example. For instance where femto node is deployed in an urban area the threshold can be lower than for a suburban area because the femto node likely competes with more femto nodes in a shorter distance. In this regard transmit determining component can obtain the threshold from a wireless network component provisioned based on a reported location of femto node . In other examples transmit determining component can set or otherwise select the threshold based on the measured signal quality a number of signals differentiated over the wireless channels e.g. which can indicate a number of neighboring femto nodes a strength determined of each of such signals a determined or received density of femto nodes within a specific geographic location range a number of devices communicating with neighboring femto nodes or other received or determined loading information and or the like. In other examples the threshold can be operator or user specified based on inputting the threshold a parameter from which the threshold can be determined e.g. location or a description thereof and or the like.

In any case transmit determining component can discern whether to provide service in the wireless network based at least in part on the comparison of the measured signal quality to the threshold. For example where the measured signal quality is below the threshold transmit determining component can determine that femto node can transmit in the wireless network without causing significant interference. In this example transmitting component can so transmit signals to advertise or otherwise provide wireless service can select a transmit power relative to the measured signal quality e.g. and or a difference between the measured signal quality and the threshold etc. Where the measured signal quality is above a threshold however transmit determining component can determine that the femto node is not to provide service in the wireless network due to possible interference to one or more other nodes as described.

In one example as described parameter measuring component can perform RSSI RSCP SNR Ecp Io or similar quality or power measurements of the received signals for comparing to the threshold. In another example signal receiving component can obtain pilot signals from macro femto nodes and e.g. and or other nodes . In this example parameter measuring component can determine an Ecp of the pilot signals which can indicate a pathloss to macro femto nodes and e.g. and or other nodes . Thus transmit determining component can analyze the Ecp of the pilot signals compared to a threshold to determine at least one of whether one or more nodes are within a close range of femto node a number of one or more nodes within the range of femto node etc. For example transmit determining component can determine whether to provide service in the wireless network based at least in part on determining whether one or a threshold number of nodes are within the range of femto node . Where the number of nodes within range are below the threshold for example transmit determining component can determine to provide wireless network service. The threshold Ecp and or number of nodes threshold can be received in a hardcoding configuration etc. determined based at least in part on one or more parameters of a wireless network environment and or the like as described above with respect to the signal quality threshold.

In another example parameter measuring component can determine Ecp or other measurements of a subset of received signals in determining whether to transmit in the wireless network. For example parameter measuring component can determine which of the signals relate to certain macro femto nodes e.g. femto nodes advertising an open or hybrid access mode as opposed to a closed access mode and can use a combined or average quality of the signals for comparing to the threshold. It is to be appreciated in this example that femto nodes can operate in an open access mode where substantially any UE is allowed access to the femto node a closed access mode where only some UEs are allowed to access the femto node e.g. UEs in a closed subscriber group CSG as described further herein or a hybrid access mode where the femto node can provide varying levels of access to a given UE e.g. improved access to UEs in a CSG as opposed to those not in the CSG . In another example parameter measuring component can determine to consider only measurements over a certain quality as measured e.g. Ecp or over a certain transmit power e.g. as advertised in overhead messages . In any case a selected portion of signal quality or power measurements can be considered in determining whether to transmit in the wireless network.

In this regard for example the network configuration of femto nodes can be a function of an order at which femto nodes are added e.g. femto nodes that are the latest to be added in a location may not be able to provide wireless service based on measuring the one or more parameters as described . Thus in one example a parameter measuring component can periodically measure signal parameters and transmit determining component can then determine whether to provide service in the wireless network to allow femto nodes to provide service when possible based on the measured signal parameters. For example this can occur according to a configured or determined time period.

In one example femto node and other femto or macro nodes such as macro femto nodes and can be configured with a calibration period during which the nodes can initially decrease transmit power e.g. to zero or otherwise . The nodes can then perform signal quality measurements and set a transmit power according to a determined timing. Whether or not a calibration period is used the parameter measuring component can determine the timing based in part on a previous timing e.g. selecting a timing shifted from the previous timing such as a next timing or a first timing where the previous timing is a last available timing . In another example parameter measuring component can determine the timing based in part on an ordering a random function a pseudorandom or other function of a femto node parameter e.g. identifier etc. For instance the timing can be accordingly computed as one of n possible timings where n is a positive integer. In yet another example parameter measuring component can receive the timing from one or more core wireless network nodes such as a femto node gateway or other centralized entity as discussed further herein a radio network controller RNC a femto node responsible for transmit power calibration and or other entities that perform the determination and or the like . Thus the timing can be determined e.g. by each femto node or a centralized entity based on a round robin approach such that femto nodes with a later timing in one time period can be assigned an earlier timing in a next period or random pseudorandom timings can be otherwise assigned over time to ensure fairness among the femto nodes for communicating in the wireless network.

Thus in this example parameter measuring component can receive the timing determine the timing based on a function of a parameter of femto node receive a command to perform the measuring and transmit power determining e.g. based on another entity determining and effectuating the timing and or the like. In any case parameter measuring component measures the signal quality according to the timing or command and transmit determining component can determine whether to transmit. In one example whether performed by parameter measuring component or another entity determining the timing can be based performing a round robin function of previous measurement timings for a given femto node within a calibration period. Thus for example where it is determined that a previous measurement for femto node was performed at a timing later than a threshold from the start of the calibration period parameter measuring component or a similar component of another entity can select an earlier timing for a next calibration period and notify femto node where the other entity is utilized .

In another example the round robin approach can be effectuated by parameter measuring component and or the centralized entity assigning sequential timing offsets to each femto node for each calibration period. The femto nodes can accordingly measure and determine transmit power at the offsets of each period. When a femto node reaches the last latest timing offset it is assigned the first earliest timing offset in the next calibration period. As described parameter measuring component can select an initial timing offset which can be based on a function of a parameter of femto node e.g. a femto node or cell identifier or otherwise and or a centralized entity can assign the initial and or subsequent timing offsets to femto node which parameter measuring component utilizes in measuring signal quality for determining whether to transmit.

Referring to an example wireless communication system is illustrated that facilitates determining transmit parameters for a femto node. System includes a femto node as well as macro femto nodes and . Femto node as described can be substantially any low power base station device and or the like. In addition macro femto nodes and can each be a low power base station such as a femto node pico node micro node etc. a macro node a device e.g. communicating in peer to peer pr ad hoc mode with other devices a relay node and or the like. System also includes a centralized entity with which femto node and or macro femto nodes and can communicate over backhaul connection to a core network which can be a wired or wireless connection. In another example centralized entity can be another femto node with which femto node and macro femto nodes and can communicate.

Femto node includes a signal receiving component for obtaining one or more signals in a wireless network and a parameter measuring component for determining one or more parameters related to the one or more signals. Femto node also includes a parameter measurement providing component for indicating the one or more parameters to a centralized entity a transmit parameter receiving component that obtains one or more parameters related to transmitting in the wireless network from the centralized entity and a transmitting component for communicating in the wireless network based on the one or more parameters related to transmitting.

Centralized entity can include a parameter measurement receiving component for obtaining one or more parameters related to measurements of one or more signals from a femto node a transmit parameter determining component for generating one or more transmit parameters for the femto node and a transmit parameter indicating component for communicating the one or more transmit parameters to the femto node.

According to an example as described macro femto nodes and can be deployed in the wireless network and can transmit signals to advertise wireless service to one or more devices not shown and or to otherwise communicate therewith. Femto nodes and can operate in a channel dedicated for such wireless service e.g. in a similar frequency space such that additional communications over the channel may cause interference thereto. In this example femto node can be deployed within a vicinity of macro femto nodes and and can thus detect signals therefrom. For example signal receiving component can receive signals from macro femto nodes and or devices communicating therewith etc. and parameter measuring component can determine one or more parameters related to the signals such as a measured signal quality. Parameter measurement providing component can communicate the one or more parameters to the centralized entity in one or more reporting periods. Parameter measurement receiving component can obtain the parameters and transmit parameter determining component can determine whether femto node is to transmit and or a related transmit power based on the one or more parameters e.g. similarly to transmit determining component as described above . Transmit parameter indicating component can communicate the indication of whether femto node is to transmit back to femto node . Transmit parameter receiving component can obtain the indication and transmitting component can accordingly transmit signals to provide wireless service or refrain from transmitting such signals based on the indication.

By allowing the centralized entity to determine whether the femto can transmit for example additional parameters can be considered by transmit parameter determining component in determining whether femto node should transmit in the wireless network. In one example parameter measurement receiving component can obtain measurements from various femto nodes such as macro femto nodes and and thus transmit parameter determining component can consider measurements from the other femto nodes in determining whether the femto node should transmit in the wireless network. Moreover for example transmit parameter determining component can obtain other parameters such as loading information of one or more femto nodes a location of one or more femto nodes access mode of one or more femto nodes e.g. open closed hybrid etc. nodes neighboring one or more femto nodes related signal strengths of each of the nodes as received at the one or more femto nodes transmit powers of each of the nodes and or the like and transmit parameter determining component can utilize such parameters to determine whether femto node should transmit in the wireless network.

For example transmit parameter determining component can determine loading information for femto nodes neighboring femto node . Where the neighboring femto nodes have a load over a threshold e.g. an average load among the femto nodes a maximum load etc. transmit parameter determining component may determine to allow femto node to transmit in the wireless network to relieve some of the load even where the signal quality reported by femto node is over a threshold. Thus in one example transmit parameter determining component may set the threshold signal quality based on the additional parameters e.g. set a higher threshold for the signal quality where load of neighboring femto nodes is over a threshold load .

In another example transmit parameter determining component can determine whether femto node should transmit based in part on signal qualities reported by other femto nodes such as macro femto nodes and or historical transmit indications provided to the femto node and or macro femto nodes and to ensure fairness to femto node and macro femto nodes and when determining whether the nodes should transmit. For instance where transmit parameter determining component determines that femto node and macro femto nodes and report signal quality over a threshold for a previous number of reporting periods a round robin approach can be used to provide fairness in allowing the femto nodes and macro femto nodes and to transmit in the wireless network. In one example transmit parameter determining component can determine whether femto node and or macro femto nodes and can transmit in the wireless network by ordering the femto nodes e.g. based on an order that the femto nodes initiated connection with the network and indicating to a certain number of femto nodes determined by transmit parameter determining component based on reported signal qualities to transmit via transmit parameter indicating component . Transmit parameter determining component can shift the ordering by one or starting with the first femto node that was indicated to not transmit in a subsequent reporting period to ensure fairness across femto nodes.

In another example transmit parameter determining component can additionally determine a number of transmission opportunities the femto node has had over a period of time and or can compare this to transmission opportunities of other femto nodes such as femto nodes and . This can include measuring whether transmit parameter indicating component has indicated to femto node to transmit over the period of time. Where transmit parameter determining component has indicated that femto node not transmit over all or a threshold portion of the reporting periods transmit parameter determining component determines that femto node should transmit in a current opportunity and transmit parameter indicating component so notifies the femto node . In another example where transmit parameter determining component determines that femto node has been indicated to transmit in all or at least a threshold portion of the reporting periods and other femto nodes have not had the opportunity to transmit transmit parameter determining component can determine to not allow femto node to transmit in a current opportunity and transmit parameter indicating component can so notify femto node . In any case transmit parameter receiving component obtains the indication and transmitting component accordingly transmits or refrains from transmitting as described.

In yet another example periodic calibration periods for determining whether a femto node should transmit can be utilized to ensure that each femto node communicating with the centralized entity has an opportunity to transmit over a given period of time. In this example centralized entity can command femto node and other femto nodes to enter the calibration period and institute timing offsets during the calibration periods within which the femto nodes during which to report measurements for determining whether the femto node should transmit in the wireless network. For example transmit parameter determining component can assign timing offsets to femto node and other femto nodes such as macro femto nodes and over a plurality of calibration periods. In this example transmitting component can initially cease transmission during the calibration period and transmit parameter receiving component can obtain a timing offset transmitted by transmit parameter indicating component .

Parameter measuring component can measure the parameters of signals from macro femto nodes and and or devices communicating therewith following the timing offset and parameter measurement providing component can accordingly provide the measurements to centralized entity for determining whether femto node should transmit in the wireless network. As described transmit parameter determining component can assign timing offsets to a plurality of femto nodes including sequential timing offsets e.g. assigning differing offsets to various femto nodes to provide a round robin approach offsets computed based on a function of another parameter of femto node offsets determined based on loading or other parameters at femto node and or other femto nodes and or the like.

At a timing for measuring a received signal quality in a wireless network can be determined Determining the timing can include receiving the timing from a centralized entity determining the timing by shifting a previous timing determining the timing using a random function or a pseudorandom function based on an identifier or other parameter of a femto node determining the timing based on one or more parameters of other femto nodes e.g. a number of previous transmission opportunities provided thereto and or the like.

At the received signal quality can be measured based on the timing. For example the timing can correspond to an offset from a calibration period during which femto nodes silence communications measure received signal quality during corresponding timing offsets and determine whether to initialize communication in the wireless network. Measuring signal quality can include measuring RSSI SNR Ecp Ecp Io etc.

At it can be determined whether to communicate in the wireless network based in part on comparing the received signal quality to a threshold signal quality. Where the received signal quality is over the threshold for example it can be determined not to communicate in the wireless network to mitigate interference caused to other nodes. By using the timing for measuring the signal quality a fairness can be provided among femto nodes where the timing can be modified over time to ensure all femto nodes have an opportunity to communicate based on experiencing a low received signal quality.

At a timing can be determined for a femto node to measure received signal quality in a wireless network to determine whether to communicate. For example the timing can be determined based on a previous timing an ordering a random function a pseudorandom function based on an identifier or other parameter of the femto node a number of transmission opportunities provided to the femto nodes over a period of time the number of times a femto node has reported signal quality over a threshold and or the like.

Optionally at the femto node can be commanded to initialize a calibration period. For example this can include indicating a command or time for the femto node to enter the calibration period. As described the calibration can relate to the femto node refraining from transmitting in the wireless network until instructed to or until an indicated timing offset has expired.

At the femto node can be commanded to measure the received signal quality based on the timing. As described this can include indicating a timing offset to the femto node or otherwise indicating to the femto node to measure the received signal quality.

At one or more measurements of parameters related to signals received from one or more femto nodes can be received. For example the one or more measurements can be received based on analyzing the one or more signals from neighboring femto nodes. In another example the one or more measurements can be received from a femto node etc. The one or more parameters can correspond to a total RSSI Ecp SNR Ecp Io and or the like corresponding to the signals as described.

At the one or more measurements can be compared to a threshold. The threshold can be a configured parameter whether hardcoded or received from a core network component a computed parameter based on historical comparisons and or the like.

At it can be determined whether to allow a femto node to transmit in the wireless network to provide service in the wireless network based at least in part on the measuring. For example this can include comparing the one or more parameters to one or more threshold values at to determine whether to allow the femto node to provide wireless service as described. In one example based on the determination the femto node can transmit or refrain from transmitting signals in the wireless network for providing service.

Referring to an example methodology for determining whether to provide service in a wireless network is shown.

At signals from one or more femto nodes can be received in a wireless network. This can include receiving the signals over a transceiver.

At one or more parameters related to the signals can be measured. For example the one or more parameters can include a total RSSI Ecp SNR Ecp Io etc. as described.

At it can be determined whether to transmit in the wireless network to provide wireless service based at least in part on the one or more parameters. Thus for example the one or more parameters can be measured against a threshold that indicates to transmit or refrain from transmitting signals for providing service in the wireless network as described.

It will be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described herein inferences can be made regarding determining timings for allowing femto nodes to measure received signal qualities determining whether to allow a femto node to transmit in a wireless network and or the like as described. As used herein the term to infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Processor for example can be a processor dedicated to analyzing information received by receiver and or generating information for transmission by a transmitter a processor that controls one or more components of eNB and or a processor that analyzes information received by receiver generates information for transmission by transmitter and controls one or more components of eNB . In addition processor can perform one or more functions described herein and or can communicate with components for such a purpose.

Memory as described is operatively coupled to processor and can store data to be transmitted received data information related to available channels data associated with analyzed signal and or interference strength information related to an assigned channel power rate or the like and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory can additionally store protocols and or algorithms associated with measuring signal quality determining whether to transmit in a wireless network and or the like.

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Processor is further optionally coupled to a signal receiving component which can be similar to signal receiving component a parameter measuring component which can be similar to parameter measuring component transmit determining component which can be similar to transmit determining component a parameter measurement providing component which can be similar to parameter measurement providing component and or transmit parameter receiving component which can be similar to transmit parameter receiving component . Moreover for example processor can modulate signals to be transmitted using modulator and transmit modulated signals using transmitter . Transmitter can transmit signals to mobile devices or eNBs over Tx antennas and can be similar to transmitting component . Furthermore although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the signal receiving component parameter measuring component transmit determining component parameter measurement providing component transmit parameter receiving component demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown and or stored as instructions in memory for execution by processor .

Computer device further includes a memory such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include substantially any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof. Computer device also includes one or more components which can be stored in memory executed by processor e.g. based on instructions stored in memory be implemented within one or more processors and or the like.

Further computer device includes a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on computer device as well as between computer device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to computer device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices.

Additionally computer device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor .

Computer device may optionally include an interface component operable to receive inputs from a user of computer device and further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. Interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component any other mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user or any combination thereof. Further interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output to a user or any combination thereof. In another example interface component can be an application programming interface API that can be accessed by one or more devices to perform functions on computer device .

In addition in the depicted example computer device can optionally include one or more of a parameter measurement receiving component which can be similar to parameter measurement receiving component a transmit parameter determining component which can be similar to transmit parameter determining component and or a transmit parameter indicating component which can be similar to transmit parameter indicating component . Thus these components and or can utilize processor to execute instructions associated therewith memory to store information associated therewith communications component to carry out communications and or the like as described. In addition it is to be appreciated that computer device can include additional or alternative components described herein.

For example electrical component can include a parameter measuring component as described above. Electrical component can include a transmit determining component as described.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory . In one example electrical components and can include at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

For example electrical component can include a transmit parameter determining component as described above. In addition for example electrical component in an aspect can include a transmit parameter indicating component as described.

Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory . In one example electrical components and can include at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

Base station can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device and mobile device however it is to be appreciated that base station can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices and . Mobile devices and can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . Moreover mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system forward link can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link and forward link can employ a different frequency band than that employed by reverse link for example. Further in a time division duplex TDD system forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band and forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band.

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector of base station . For example antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward links and the transmitting antennas of base station can utilize beamforming to improve signal to noise ratio of forward links and for mobile devices and . Also while base station utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile devices and scattered randomly through an associated coverage mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover mobile devices and can communicate directly with one another using a peer to peer or ad hoc technology as depicted.

At base station traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source to a transmit TX data processor . According to an example each data stream can be transmitted over a respective antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM techniques. Additionally or alternatively the pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM time division multiplexed TDM or code division multiplexed CDM . The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at mobile device to estimate channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream can be modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM etc. selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor .

The modulation symbols for the data streams can be provided to a TX MIMO processor which can further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In various embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Further Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At mobile device the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor can receive and process the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. RX data processor can demodulate deinterleave and decode each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at base station .

The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message can be processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to base station .

At base station the modulated signals from mobile device are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reverse link message transmitted by mobile device . Further processor can process the extracted message to determine which precoding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights.

Processors and can direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at base station and mobile device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory and that store program codes and data. For example processor and or can execute and or memory and or can store instructions related to functions and or components described herein such as measuring received signal quality to determine whether to communicate in a wireless network determining timing for measuring the received signal quality and or the like as described.

Referring again to the owner of a femto node can subscribe to mobile service such as for example 3G mobile service offered through the mobile operator core network . In addition an access terminal can be capable of operating both in macro environments and in smaller scale e.g. residential network environments. Thus for example depending on the current location of the access terminal the access terminal can be served by an access node or by any one of a set of femto nodes e.g. the femto nodes A and B that reside within a corresponding user residence . For example when a subscriber is outside his home he is served by a standard macro cell access node e.g. node and when the subscriber is at home he is served by a femto node e.g. node A . Here it should be appreciated that a femto node can be backward compatible with existing access terminals .

A femto node can be deployed on a single frequency or in the alternative on multiple frequencies. Depending on the particular configuration the single frequency or one or more of the multiple frequencies can overlap with one or more frequencies used by a macro cell access node e.g. node . In some aspects an access terminal can be configured to connect to a preferred femto node e.g. the home femto node of the access terminal whenever such connectivity is possible. For example whenever the access terminal is within the user s residence it can communicate with the home femto node .

In some aspects if the access terminal operates within the mobile operator core network but is not residing on its most preferred network e.g. as defined in a preferred roaming list the access terminal can continue to search for the most preferred network e.g. femto node using a Better System Reselection BSR which can involve a periodic scanning of available systems to determine whether better systems are currently available and subsequent efforts to associate with such preferred systems. Using an acquisition table entry e.g. in a preferred roaming list in one example the access terminal can limit the search for specific band and channel. For example the search for the most preferred system can be repeated periodically. Upon discovery of a preferred femto node such as femto node the access terminal selects the femto node for camping within its coverage area.

A femto node can be restricted in some aspects. For example a given femto node can only provide certain services to certain access terminals. In deployments with so called restricted or closed association a given access terminal can only be served by the macro cell mobile network and a defined set of femto nodes e.g. the femto nodes that reside within the corresponding user residence . In some implementations a femto node can be restricted to not provide for at least one access terminal at least one of signaling data access registration paging or service.

In some aspects a restricted femto node which can also be referred to as a Closed Subscriber Group H e NB is one that provides service to a restricted provisioned set of access terminals. This set can be temporarily or permanently extended as necessary. In some aspects a Closed Subscriber Group CSG can be defined as the set of access nodes e.g. femto nodes that share a common access control list of access terminals. A channel on which all femto nodes or all restricted femto nodes in a region operate can be referred to as a femto channel.

Various relationships can thus exist between a given femto node and a given access terminal. For example from the perspective of an access terminal an open femto node can refer to a femto node with no restricted association. A restricted femto node can refer to a femto node that is restricted in some manner e.g. restricted for association and or registration . A home femto node can refer to a femto node on which the access terminal is authorized to access and operate on. A guest femto node can refer to a femto node on which an access terminal is temporarily authorized to access or operate on. An alien femto node can refer to a femto node on which the access terminal is not authorized to access or operate on e.g. the access terminal is a non member except for perhaps emergency situations e.g. 911 calls .

From a restricted femto node perspective a home access terminal can refer to an access terminal that authorized to access the restricted femto node. A guest access terminal can refer to an access terminal with temporary access to the restricted femto node. An alien access terminal can refer to an access terminal that does not have permission to access the restricted femto node except for perhaps emergency situations for example 911 calls e.g. an access terminal that does not have the credentials or permission to register with the restricted femto node .

For convenience the disclosure herein describes various functionality in the context of a femto node. It should be appreciated however that a pico node can provide the same or similar functionality as a femto node but for a larger coverage area. For example a pico node can be restricted a home pico node can be defined for a given access terminal and so on.

A wireless multiple access communication system can simultaneously support communication for multiple wireless access terminals. As mentioned above each terminal can communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on the forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations. This communication link can be established via a single in single out system a MIMO system or some other type of system.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules components and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more aspects the functions methods or algorithms described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also substantially any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

