---

title: Facilitating distributed power production units in a power group to store power for power conditioning during an anticipated temporary power production disruption
abstract: In an embodiment, a server monitors a set of parameters associated with future power production capacity of a set of distributed power production units that belong to a power group supplying power to a given serving area of a power grid during a given period of time. The server predicts, for a portion of the given period of time, a temporary power production disruption that will affect the power group based on the monitoring. The server sends a control message to the power group based on the prediction. At least one power production unit in the power group receives the control message, and responsive to the control message diverts at least a portion of power being supplied to the given serving area to local storage, detects the temporary power disruption and conditions power supplied to the given serving area during the temporary power distribution based upon the locally stored power.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855828&OS=08855828&RS=08855828
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08855828
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120123
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 525 512 entitled NEGOTIATING POWER PRODUCTION RATES FOR A GROUP OF POWER PRODUCTION UNITS filed Aug. 19 2011 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the invention relate to facilitating power production units in a power group to store power for power conditioning during an anticipated temporary power production disruption.

Conventional power distribution systems rely upon a small group of centralized commercial power utilities e.g. coal fired power plants nuclear power plants centralized renewable facilities such as commercial solar plants or commercial wind farms etc. producing power that is fed into a power grid and distributed to power consuming units or loads e.g. homes offices etc. throughout a wide serving area of a power grid system.

Increasingly distributed power production units are being deployed in power grid systems. For example photovoltaic or solar panels can be mounted onto a roof of a residential home or office building and then tied to the power grid so that the home or office building becomes a new power producer instead of or in addition to being a consumer. In another example wind farms i.e. groups of wind turbines can also be tied into the grid as a net power producer.

Older power grid system had no mechanism by which operators of distributed power production units could be compensated for the power that they supported to the power grid system. However some newer power grid systems in certain municipalities implement a relatively simple crediting system referred to as net metering . In a net metering system the amount of net power supplied to the power grid system for a particular power production unit is monitored and a fixed pre negotiated net metering rate is credited to the operator of the power production unit. However conventional net metering is not based on the actual real time power demands of the power grid system. For example under conventional net metering an operator of a solar power production unit which provides most of its power during the day when capacity of the power grid system is strained is compensated at the same rate as an operator of a windmill that produces power at night during off peak hours. Further some commercial power utilities are now considering charging operators of distributed power production units participation fees associated with the net metering crediting mechanism.

Accordingly at present there is no apparent mechanism by which individual operators of distributed power production units are incentivized to produce power when power demand in proximity to the distributed power production units is high or to establish oversized distributed power production beyond their own consumption needs.

In an embodiment a server monitors a set of parameters associated with future power production capacity of a set of distributed power production units that belong to a power group supplying power to a given serving area of a power grid during a given period of time. The server predicts for a portion of the given period of time a temporary power production disruption that will affect the power group based on the monitoring. The server sends a control message to the power group based on the prediction. At least one power production unit in the power group receives the control message and responsive to the control message diverts at least a portion of power being supplied to the given serving area to local storage detects the temporary power disruption and conditions power supplied to the given serving area during the temporary power distribution based upon the locally stored power.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the embodiment of the Gn between the SGSN and the GGSN carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

Direct Tunnel is an optional function in Iu mode that allows the SGSN to establish a direct user plane tunnel GTP U between RAN and GGSN within the Packet Switched PS domain. A direct tunnel capable SGSN such as SGSN in can be configured on a per GGSN and per RNC basis whether or not the SGSN can use a direct user plane connection. The SGSN in handles the control plane signaling and makes the decision of when to establish Direct Tunnel. When the Radio Bearer RAB assigned for a PDP context is released i.e. the PDP context is preserved the GTP U tunnel is established between the GGSN and SGSN in order to be able to handle the downlink packets.

The optional Direct Tunnel between the SGSN and GGSN is not typically allowed i in the roaming case e.g. because the SGSN needs to know whether the GGSN is in the same or different PLMN ii where the SGSN has received Customized Applications for Mobile Enhanced Logic CAMEL Subscription Information in the subscriber profile from a Home Location Register HLR and or iii where the GGSN does not support GTP protocol version 1. With respect to the CAMEL restriction if Direct Tunnel is established then volume reporting from SGSN is not possible as the SGSN no longer has visibility of the User Plane. Thus since a CAMEL server can invoke volume reporting at anytime during the life time of a PDP Context the use of Direct Tunnel is prohibited for a subscriber whose profile contains CAMEL Subscription Information.

The SGSN can be operating in a Packet Mobility Management PMM detached state a PMM idle state or a PMM connected state. In an example the GTP connections shown in for Direct Tunnel function can be established whereby the SGSN is in the PMM connected state and receives an Iu connection establishment request from the UE. The SGSN ensures that the new Iu connection and the existing Iu connection are for the same UE and if so the SGSN processes the new request and releases the existing Iu connection and all RABs associated with it. To ensure that the new Iu connection and the existing one are for the same UE the SGSN may perform security functions. If Direct Tunnel was established for the UE the SGSN sends an Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s to establish the GTP tunnels between the SGSN and GGSN s in case the Iu connection establishment request is for signaling only. The SGSN may immediately establish a new direct tunnel and send Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s and include the RNC s Address for User Plane a downlink Tunnel Endpoint Identifier TEID for data in case the Iu connection establishment request is for data transfer.

The UE also performs a Routing Area Update RAU procedure immediately upon entering PMM IDLE state when the UE has received a RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling connection re establishment even if the Routing Area has not changed since the last update. In an example the RNC will send the RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling Connection re establishment when it the RNC is unable to contact the Serving RNC to validate the UE due to lack of Iur connection e.g. see TS 25.331 52 . The UE performs a subsequent service request procedure after successful completion of the RAU procedure to re establish the radio access bearer when the UE has pending user data to send.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the conventional power grid system further includes a wind farm A. The wind farm A is a distributed power production unit that provides electrical power to the power grid A although typically in smaller amounts than the commercial power utilities A. Accordingly the wind farm A includes a plurality of wind turbines A A and A that collectively have a connection A to the power grid A. The conventional power grid system further includes a first photovoltaic building A that has a connection A to the power grid A and also a second photovoltaic building A that has a connection A to the power grid A. The first and second photovoltaic buildings A and A e.g. office buildings residential buildings etc. are structures that are equipped with one or more photovoltaic or solar panels. The first and second photovoltaic buildings correspond to distributed power production units that provide electrical power to the power grid A although typically in smaller amounts than the commercial power utilities A and or the wind farm A. The operation of the components of the conventional power grid system shown in will be discussed in more detail below with respect to .

Referring to assume that the power grid system of is operating in an off peak time block such as at night between 2 AM and 5 AM when most customers are asleep and not using high amounts of electrical power. During the off peak time block the first photovoltaic building is not producing any electrical power because the sun is down B the wind farm A is producing power and outputting the power to the power grid A B and the commercial power utilities A are also producing power and outputting the power to the power grid A B. The commercial power utilities A meter the amount of power produced by the wind farm A during the off peak time block and credit the wind farm A in accordance with a fixed pre negotiated net metering rate based on the metered amount of power as is known in the art B.

Referring to assume that the power grid system of is now operating in an on peak time block such as in the morning between 9 AM and noon when most customers are awake and are using high amounts of electrical power e.g. HVAC systems computers lights etc. . During the on peak time block the first photovoltaic building is producing electrical power e.g. because the sun is now up and outputting the power to the power grid A B the wind farm A is still producing power and outputting the power to the power grid A B and the commercial power utilities A are also still producing power and outputting the power to the power grid A B. The commercial power utilities A meter the amount of power produced by the wind farm A and the first photovoltaic building A during the on peak time block credit the wind farm A and the first photovoltaic building A in accordance with the fixed pre negotiated net metering rate based on the metered amount of power as is known in the art B.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art using the fixed pre negotiated net metering rate to reward power production units for their power ignores the real time power demands of the power grid system and instead rewards all power equally. Thus operators of distributed power production units are not incentivized to install power production units that are specially configured to produce power to meet the demands of high demand or on peak time blocks. Likewise the commercial power utilities A may find it difficult to meet power demands during on peak time blocks due to the lack of incentives for the distributed power production units.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to tracking real time power production capacities of groups of distributed power production units. A dynamically negotiated power rate is then determined for each group if appropriate based on the group s collective power production capacity and or location.

Referring to the power grid system further includes a wind farm that is somewhat similar to the wind farm A of . Accordingly the wind farm is a distributed power production unit that provides electrical power to the power grid although in smaller amounts than the commercial power utilities . The wind farm includes a plurality of wind turbines and that collectively have a connection to the power grid .

Referring to unlike the wind farm A of the wind farm is further provisioned with a UE A. The UE A is configured to monitor a location and power production capacity associated with the wind farm and further to report the monitored location and power production capacity to the application server . For example UE A may be provisioned with positioning hardware and or software e.g. GPS etc. by which UE can determine its location. In another example UE A may monitor local beacon signals e.g. pilot signals from cellular base stations or WLAN APs radio frequency RF fingerprints etc. by which the location of UE A can be approximated.

UE A may further be capable of measuring the power production capacity of the wind farm . For example UE A can be connected to a power monitoring system or meter not shown that indicates a current amount of electrical power or voltage current being output by the wind farm to the power grid . UE A may be coupled via a connection to the power monitoring system or meter not shown to read power statistics associated with the wind farm . The connection may correspond to a physical or wired connection or alternatively may correspond to a wireless connection e.g. Bluetooth etc. . In an example the power monitoring system or meter not shown may include environmental sensors that predict the nature of future power production e.g. a barometric pressure sensor may detect a pressure drop indicative of an incoming storm which implies a high wind prediction in the near future and thereby a higher power production expectation . Thus the power monitoring system or meter not shown need not be limited to measuring current power production statistics but could also be used to predict future power production expectations.

UE A can report the measured power production capacity of the wind farm on a periodic e.g. once every hour once every day etc. and or event triggered basis e.g. in response to a power production capacity query issued by the application server etc. . The reported power production capacity can either be indicative of a real time or instantaneous power output level of the wind farm an averaged historical power output level e.g. the average amount of power output to the power grid over the previous 2 hours etc. or alternatively a predicted measure of power expected to be output to the power grid in a future time block e.g. based on historical averages environmental statistics and or weather reports UE A can predict and report an expected power output by the wind farm A for the next three hours etc. . While not shown explicitly in UE A may connect to the application server via a wired or wireless e.g. WLAN connection over the Internet or alternatively via the RAN over a cellular communications network. Accordingly UE A s connection to the application server can correspond to any combination of wired and or wireless communication schemes.

The power grid system of further includes a first photovoltaic building that has a connection to the power grid . Similar to the wind farm the first photovoltaic building is further provisioned with a UE B. The UE B is configured to monitor a location and power production capacity associated with the first photovoltaic building and further to report the monitored location and power production capacity to the application server . UE B may be configured similar to UE A as discussed above and UE B is coupled to the first photovoltaic building via a connection e.g. a wireless or wired connection . In UE B is shown as being wirelessly connected to the RAN for connecting to the application server . Accordingly UE B can report its monitored location and or power production capacity information to the application server via the RAN and can also receive queries for the monitored location and or power production capacity information from the application server over the RAN .

The power grid system of further includes a second photovoltaic building that has a connection to the power grid . Similar to the first photovoltaic building the second photovoltaic building is provisioned with a UE C. The UE C is configured similar to UE B as discussed above and UE C is coupled to the second photovoltaic building via a connection e.g. a wireless or wired connection . In UE C is shown as being wirelessly connected to a Wireless Local Access Network WLAN Access Point AP in a WLAN for connecting to the application server . Accordingly UE C can report its monitored location and or power production capacity information to the application server via the WLAN and can also receive queries for the monitored location and or power production capacity information from the application server over the WLAN .

Referring to the power grid system further includes a commercial power utility server . The commercial power utility server corresponds to one or more servers operated by or at least configured to represent the commercial power utilities or spot market server. As will be described below in more detail the commercial power utility server is authorized to dynamically negotiate rates with the application server for power produced by one or more power groups within the power grid system of .

Referring to the application server maintains a set of power groups that each include a set of distributed power production units e.g. the wind farm the photovoltaic buildings and or etc. that are configured to supply power to the power grid in a given power grid serving area . Thus in an example each of the power groups is populated with power production units that are associated with the same geographical area or power grid serving area e.g. a two mile geographical radius or geofence a logical portion or area of the power grid a grid wide region etc. . In another example the geographic association can be relatively loose or broad such that a given power group could be implemented inclusive of power production units that are distributed throughout a broad region e.g. a nationwide footprint etc. . Each of the power groups is further associated with a power production profile which corresponds to the collective or aggregate amount of power that can be supplied by the power production units of the respective power group in its corresponding power grid serving area. In an example the power production profile may be representative of a real time or instantaneous power production capacity of a given power group a max total power production capacity of the given power group or alternatively the power production profile may be representative of a prediction of a power production capacity of the given power group for a future time block e.g. so that a rate for power produced by the given power group in the future time block can be negotiated by the application server on behalf of the given power group . The remainder of shows an example of generating or updating a power group for one particular power production unit. It will be appreciated that these operations are representative on how the maintaining operation of can be implemented over time.

Accordingly after a given power production unit e.g. wind farm photovoltaic building or etc. is provisioned with a given UE that is configured for power monitoring and reporting e.g. UE A UE B UE C etc. the given UE determines a location of the power production unit . For example in the given UE can calculate its own position using any well known positioning mechanism e.g. GPS etc. and can then use the calculated position as the location for the given power production unit.

Referring to the given UE also determines a power production capacity associated with the given power production unit . For example in the given UE may access a power monitoring system or meter not shown attached to the given power production unit to detect a real time or instantaneous amount of power being produced by the given power production unit and can then use the instantaneous power as the power production capacity of the given power production unit. In another example in the given UE may access a power monitoring system or meter not shown attached to the given power production unit to log an average power production of the given power production unit over a period of time e.g. for each day of the year for night time power output day time power output summer vs. winter power output etc. and the given UE can then use the averaged power produced by the given power production unit as the power production capacity of the given power production unit for the given period of time. In another example in the given UE may access a power monitoring system or meter not shown attached to the given power production unit to build a power model of the given power production unit across different periods of time e.g. such that a power production expectation for June 17between 4 6 PM is different than for December 1between 2 4 AM based on historical performance . In this example the power model can be used as the determined power production capacity for a target period of time and or target weather condition s . In another example the given UE may predict or forecast its power production capacity for a future time block based on the above noted power model and or predicted or forecasted environmental conditions e.g. pressure and or temperature dropping etc. .

After determining the location of the given power production unit and the power production capacity of the given power production unit the given power production unit reports the determined location and power production capacity to the application server e.g. via the RAN via the WLAN etc. in order to register to a given power group . The application server receives the reported location and production capacity for the given power production unit and attempts to identify an appropriate power group for the given power production unit. For example the application server can attempt to identify a pre established power group for the given power production unit that is associated with a power grid serving area overlapping with the reported location of the given power production unit. In another example the application server can attempt to identify a pre established power group for the given power production unit that includes other power production units with a similar power production capacity. In another example the application server can attempt to identify a pre established power group for the given power production unit that includes other power production units of the same or similar type e.g. grouping renewable power production units with other renewable power production units such as solar homes and wind farms together grouping wind farms with other wind farms or grouping solar homes with other solar homes . In another example the application server can attempt to identify a pre established power group for the given power production unit that include a shared or common social relationship e.g. grouping power production units operated by employees of the same company together etc. . In another example the application server can attempt to identify a pre established power group for the given power production unit that satisfies one or more parameters for an operator of the given power production unit e.g. a threshold rate or price for power as required by the given power production unit being a green or eco friendly power group etc. . In another example the application server can attempt to identify a pre established power group for the given power production unit that is associated with two or more of i a power grid serving area overlapping with the reported location of the given power production unit ii that includes other power production units with a similar power production capacity iii that includes other power production units of the same or similar type iv that includes a common or shared social relationship with the given power production unit and or v that satisfies one or more parameters for an operator of the given power production unit.

After identifying the power group in the application server registers or adds the given power production unit to the identified power group. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art if no pre existing power group is identified in that matches the location and or power production capacity of the given power production unit the application server may generate a new power group and then register the given power production unit to the new power group in .

After registering the given power production unit to the identified power group in the application server updates the power production profile and or the power grid serving area for the identified power group based on the reported production capacity and or location of the power production unit . For example the power production profile can be updated in to augment an aggregate amount of power e.g. instantaneous power power over time power in a future time block etc. that can be produced by the identified power group. In another example the power grid serving area for the identified power group can optionally be updated based on the reported location of the given power production unit. For example if the reported location of the given power production unit is slightly outside of a current power grid serving area defining the identified power group the power grid serving area for the identified power group can be expanded to include the reported location.

At some later point in time the given UE re determines the location of the given power production unit and also re determines the power production capacity of the given power production unit . For example the re determination operations of and can occur on a periodic basis e.g. once per day once per week etc. or on an event triggered basis e.g. in response to a request from an operator of the given UE in response to a request from the application server via the WLAN or the RAN etc. . The given UE then reports the re determined location and power production capacity to the application server e.g. similar to . The application server receives the reported location and power production capacity and again updates the power production profile and or power grid serving area of the identified power group if necessary e.g. similar to .

While not shown explicitly in power production units can also be removed from power groups e.g. based on requests from the operators of the power production units based on false power production capacity or location information etc. or power groups can be disbanded altogether. In either case the application server can update the power groups accordingly to reflect any changes to their respective power production profiles and or power grid serving areas.

Referring to the commercial power utility server transmits information related to power demand in a given power grid serving area of the power grid for a given period of time . For example an operator of the commercial power utility server may be concerned about potential brown outs in upcoming on peak time blocks during a predicted heat wave. Accordingly the transmission of may be sent to initiate a negotiation procedure to secure sufficient power for handling the perceived power demand during the predicted heat wave. In another example the operator of the commercial power utility server may be aware that a commercial power plant is going offline and may wish to secure sufficient power for handling the loss of the commercial power plant during its outage. Thus the transmission of can be initiated by the operator of the commercial power utility server in an example. Alternatively the transmission of can be sent in response to a query not shown from the application server . In this example the application server can poll the commercial power utility server to check power demand levels of the power grid at different locations and or times in other words.

Referring to at while the examples provided above relate to reasons as to why power demand may be relatively high for a particular period the power demand may alternatively be configured to reflect a relatively low demand for power e.g. off peak time block etc. or even a demand for less power altogether. For example locations in proximity to source of a power outage e.g. a downed power line etc. may attract electrical technicians or line crew to repair the damage. Simply flooding these downed power lines with electricity during the repair process may be dangerous to the line crew. Accordingly power demand for the power grid serving area that would enter into in proximity to the repair area may be dis incentivized even though overall power demand for the power grid is increased during the outage period. Accordingly the power demand can be relatively local in nature and can vary in different portions of the power grid even in the same time block. In such instances the power production units in proximity to the downed power lines may be incentivized to not provide power for example by getting paid little to nothing or even penalized for power production and or by getting paid to shut off their power that is input into the power grid .

Referring to the application server receives the power demand information and identifies one or more power group s configured to serve power grid serving area s that overlap at least in part with the given power grid serving area associated with the power demand . The application server then identifies whether the power production profile s of the identified power group s over the given period of time are above a power production threshold . For example the commercial power utility server may only want to negotiate with power groups that can satisfy its power demand completely in which case the power production threshold of is equal to the indicated power demand. Alternatively the commercial power utility may simply want to secure whatever power it can in which case the power production threshold of may be lower than the indicated power demand or zero .

If the application server determines that the power production profile s of the identified power group s over the given period of time are not above the power production threshold in the application server stops negotiating and the power production units in the identified power group s revert to the net metering reward mechanism and or a fixed pre negotiated net metering rate . Alternatively if the application server determines that the power production profile s of the identified power group s over the given period of time are above the power production threshold in the application server whether the indicated power demand itself is above a power demand threshold . For example if the indicated power demand is relatively low the commercial power utility server may not be willing to pay more than the fixed pre negotiated net metering rate in which case negotiation will not actually benefit the identified power group s . If the application server determines that the indicated power demand is not above the power demand threshold in the application server stops negotiating and the power production units in the identified power group s revert to the net metering reward mechanism based on the fixed pre negotiated net metering rate .

In another embodiment of the invention the application server need not revert to the net metering reward mechanism in . Instead the application server can attempt to engage in spot markets of energy and negotiate to sell power to other geographic areas utilizing transmission or distribution lines to move energy to a region that demand values the energy with a greater price. Alternatively the concept of trading energy with a local entity for energy in another geographic region could also be significant resulting in less transmission and distribution losses caused from moving energy. In a further example instead of defaulting to the net reward mechanism in the application server can instead attempt to sell the energy associated with the identified power group s directly to a target residential entity e.g. a homeowner s association representing a particular condo building or community etc. a target industrial entity e.g. a particular factory etc. or a target commercial entity e.g. a shopping mall an office building etc. . Accordingly even if the commercial power utilities are not willing to pay a premium to energy supplied by a particular power group the application server can attempt to sell the energy produced by the power group via alternate channels in an embodiment.

Alternatively if the application server determines that the indicated power demand is above the power demand threshold in the application server negotiates with the commercial power utility server to determine a dynamic rate to be awarded to the power production units in the identified power group s over the given period of time . The negotiation of can include a series of rate offers counter offers and so on until an agreement is reached. Alternatively a pre agreed upon rate computation algorithm can be executed by the application server and or the commercial power utility server to calculate the negotiated price.

Referring to assume that the power grid system of is operating in an off peak time block such as at night between 2 AM and 5 AM when most customers are asleep and not using high amounts of electrical power e.g. HVAC systems are idle lights are off computers are off etc. . Further assume that the process of has executed for a first power group including the wind farm resulting in a net metering rate for the first power group during the off peak time block in e.g. based on insufficient power demand in a power grid serving area of the first power group insufficient power production capacity of the first power group etc. . Further assume that the first photovoltaic building is not part of any power group and will thereby always use the fixed pre negotiated net metering rate by default. Further assume that the process of has executed for a second power group including the second photovoltaic building but that the second photovoltaic building is not capable of generating any power during the off peak time block. Thus a rate may have been negotiated on behalf of the second photovoltaic building but the building itself is not generating power and will not be able to sell its power at the negotiated rate in any case.

Accordingly during the off peak time block the first and second photovoltaic buildings and are not producing any electrical power because the sun is down and the wind farm is producing power and outputting the power to the power grid and the commercial power utilities are also producing power and outputting the power to the power grid . The commercial power utilities meter the amount of power produced by the wind farm during the off peak time block and credit the wind farm in accordance with the net metering rate due to the previous execution of the process of e.g. because the power demand during the off peak time block is relatively low .

Referring to assume that the power grid system of is now operating in an on peak time block such as in the morning between 9 AM and noon when most customers are awake and are using high amounts of electrical power e.g. HVAC systems computers lights etc. . Further assume that the process of has executed for the first power group resulting in a first group specific rate for the first power group during the on peak time block in e.g. based on high power demand in a power grid serving area of the first power group etc. . Further assume that the process of has also executed for the second power group resulting in a second group specific rate for the first power group during the on peak time block in e.g. based on high power demand in a power grid serving area of the second power group etc. .

Accordingly during the on peak time block the first and second photovoltaic buildings and are both producing electrical power e.g. because the sun is now up and outputting the power to the power grid and the wind farm is still producing power and outputting the power to the power grid and the commercial power utilities are also still producing power and outputting the power to the power grid . The commercial power utilities meter the amount of power produced by the wind farm and the second photovoltaic building during the on peak time block and credit the wind farm and the second photovoltaic building with the first and second group specific rates for the first and second power groups respectively .

Also the commercial power utilities meter the amount of power produced by the first photovoltaic building during the on peak time block and credit the first photovoltaic building in accordance with the fixed pre negotiated net metering rate based on the metered amount of power because the first photovoltaic building is not part of a power group that has a negotiated group rate for the on peak time block.

While is described in an example scenario whereby execution of the process of results in a net metering rate at during the off peak time block it will be appreciated that a negotiated rate may be implemented for off peak time blocks in other embodiments of the invention.

As will be appreciated pooling power production resources into groups increases the bargaining power of individual distributed power production units so time specific and or location specific pricing can be dynamically allocated based on power demands throughout the power grid system. Further the commercial power utilities also benefit because there is a monetary incentive for operators of distributed power production units to increase power production capacity at times and or locations where power demand is expected to be high. Also through the prospect of revenue instead of mere utility bill reductions operators of distributed power production units are incentivized to overproduce or install larger systems than they otherwise may have installed if their compensation were limited to net metering.

Further in addition to renewable distributed power production distributed fuel based generators could also be implemented as a distributed power production unit in other embodiments of the invention. For example during on peak time blocks an operator could turn on a fossil fuel based power generator and add power to the power grid .

In a further embodiment power storage systems can be connected to the power grid system and configured to store energy during off peak time blocks and then produce energy during on peak time blocks i.e. where producing in context with a power storage system implies that stored power is re introduced into the power grid . Thus distributed power production units are not limited to power production that originates from the distributed power production units themselves.

Further it will be appreciated that any of the above noted distributed power production units may also be classified as a power consumption unit. Based upon the power consumption requirements of a particular power production unit it may sometimes make more fiscal sense for the power production unit to use consume its power instead of supplying power to the grid. The application server can factor the power consumption requirements of the power production units into account with respect to their power production profiles e.g. so that the application server only commits energy that a particular power production unit can afford to output while permitting the power production unit to keep a certain amount of its own power for its own use regardless of whether a demand response event has been triggered .

Further it will be appreciated that encouraging distributed renewable power production units to be installed throughout a regional area e.g. instead of being concentrated in one particular portion of the regional area can improve power stability across the power grid due to less overall system intermittency and with the predictive nature of using sensors feedback related to system impact as weather conditions change can be accumulated and evaluated.

In another embodiment while a given power group is supplying power to a power grid e.g. as in and or of the application server or some other server can predict a group wide power production disruption. For example in the case of a solar or photovoltaic power group the application server may become aware of a passing cloud bank in proximity to the power group a solar eclipse etc. so that power production will temporarily be expected to be reduced or disabled across the power group. In another example in the case of a windfarm the application server may become aware of low wind or gusty weather prediction indicative of a period of low or unstable power output.

Upon predicting the temporary power production disruption for the power group the application server preemptively sends a power control command to each distributed power unit in the power group to instruct the distributed power units to begin storing power in anticipation of the temporary power production disruption. Thus when the temporary power production disruption occurs the distributed power production units are able to leverage the stored power to condition the power being output to the power grid i.e. so that the power is conditioned for operation by a local inverter . Conventionally if power production becomes low or unstable the whole power output can become unstable and unusable. Preemptively saving up power in anticipation of power disruptions can reduce such occurrences via power conditioning. This embodiment is discussed in more detail below with respect to .

Referring to assume that the process of has executed for a given power group including a plurality of power production units . . . N resulting in a group specific negotiated rate for the plurality of power production units . . . N during a given time period. Accordingly during the given period of time the plurality of power production units . . . N of the given power group are producing power and outputting the power to the power grid and the commercial power utilities are also producing power and outputting the power to the power grid . The commercial power utilities meter the amount of power produced by the given power group during the given period of time and credit the plurality of power production units . . . N in accordance with the group specific negotiated rate based on the previous execution of the process of .

While the power production units . . . N are supplying power to the power grid and being credited accordingly and the application server or some other server is monitoring a set of parameters associated with the future power production capacity of the given power group . For example the monitored set of parameters can include local weather conditions associated with a geographic area in proximity to the physical locations of the plurality of power production units . . . N e.g. local wind conditions local cloud movement etc. . The set of parameters can be monitored by the application server based upon feedback from the individual power production units within the given power group based upon feedback from power production units in other nearby power groups or via one or more third party sources e.g. weather satellites localized weather sensors etc. . Additional examples of types of parameters that can be monitored by the server to detect temporary power disruptions include irregular voltage phase or current in the power grid insight into misbehaving equipment on a line of the power grid that could result in a failure such as falling out of a given specification for normal operation or an unexpected load on the power grid that could result in power loss. Additionally when service crews are dispatched to repair the power grid the service crews may temporarily disrupt power flow so advanced notice of field work in the area or through a smart grid application can be used to predict the temporary power disruption. Further if a consumer is on a pre pay or post pay but limited energy use plan then gaining insight into energy costs based on increases or decreases in energy pricing could imply a potential disruption to power.

Based on the monitored set of parameters from the application server determines whether the given power group is expected to experience a temporary power disruption within the given period of time when the commercial power utilities are relying upon the given power group for power production to the power grid . In an example the determination of can be based upon an expectation that each power production unit in the given power group is expected to experience the temporary power disruption or alternatively that a threshold number or percentage of power production units within the given power group are expected to experience the temporary power disruption. If the application server determines that no temporary power disruption is expected for the given power group based on the monitored set of parameters in the process returns to and the application server continues to monitor the set of parameters. Alternatively if the application server determines that a temporary power disruption is expected for the given power group based on the monitored set of parameters in the application server sends a control message to the given power group . The control message sent at can be sent via one or more APs one or more Node Bs and so on e.g. see .

Referring to of the control message is configured to prompt the power production units . . . N within the given power group to store power prior to the predicted temporary power disruption and the control message can be configured in a number of ways. For example the control message can convey the type of temporary power disruption e.g. cloud wind gust etc. the duration of the temporary power disruption e.g. 80 seconds 4 minutes 4 hours etc. the time at which the temporary power disruption is expected to begin and the time at which the temporary power disruption is expected to end. The power production units . . . N can then leverage this information to determine how much power to store prior to the time at which the temporary power disruption is expected to begin. Alternatively the control message can explicitly instruct the power production units . . . N to reduce their power output to the power grid and store power without indicating the reason for doing so. Alternatively the control message can recommend a threshold level of power for power conditioning to be stored prior to a specified time corresponding to when the temporary power disruption is expected to occur where the threshold level of power can vary from power production unit to power production unit based on their respective power production capacities . Accordingly there are numerous ways that the control message of can be implemented. In any of the above noted implementations the control message functions to prompt the power production units . . . N to store at least some additional power for power conditioning than would be stored if the control message were not transmitted.

Referring to power production units . . . N of the given power group receive the control message and begin diverting at least a portion of their respective power production from power grid output to local storage in order to facilitate power conditioning during the predicted temporary power disruption . In an example the power diversion or power output reduction that occurs at can begin immediately upon receipt of the control message at or alternatively can begin at a scheduled time after receipt of the control message at e.g. 35 seconds prior to when the temporary power disruption is expected to begin 5 minutes after receipt of the control message etc. . In a further example the power diversion operation of can trigger the power production units . . . N to store a threshold level of local power. In this embodiment after the threshold level of power is stored locally the power production units . . . N can resume normal power output to the power grid because a level of power deemed sufficient for power conditioning during the temporary power disruption has been reserved. Also the power diversion operation of can be full or partial. For example prior to a given power production unit in the given power group may supply 100 of its power to the power grid . During the power diversion operation of the given power production unit may supply 60 of its power to the power grid with the remaining 40 of its power being stored locally. When a threshold level of power is stored the given power production unit can resume 100 power output except for periodic refreshing of the threshold level of the local power storage until the temporary power disruption occurs.

Referring to at some point after the control message is received at the power production units . . . N of the given power group detect the temporary power disruption . For example the temporary power disruption may be detected by a relatively sudden reduction to the power production at the respective power production units . . . N. In response to the detection of the temporary power disruption at the power production units . . . N condition their power output to the power grid using the locally stored diverted power from . The commercial power utilities continue to meter the amount of power produced by the given power group and credit the plurality of power production units . . . N in accordance with the group specific negotiated rate based on the previous execution of the process of during the temporary power disruption . At some later point in time the power production units . . . N detect the end of the temporary power disruption and resume normal operation i.e. without power conditioning and without reliance upon a reserve of stored local power for use in power conditioning .

In a further example while not shown explicitly in the application server can aggregate power statistics associated with the power production of the power production units . . . N. For example these statistics could be compared against actual measured power production by power production unit or cell type to specifications for normal operation and the results of this comparison can indicate if the power production unit is working as expected and if not the application server could compare the performance of these power production units to others with comparable systems in the area to see if as the abnormal performance is a result of environmental conditions or if a particular power production unit is failing or otherwise not achieving the results it should. Alternatively these statistics could be aggregated and used by the application server to more accurately predict potential power availability within a region or stored as yet another reference on power production in a particular region given certain environmental conditions. Further these statistics could be aggregated and used by the application server with the manufacturer of the respective power production units to help them observe how the power production units are working in the field and how they are fairing over time. The types of power statistics that could be aggregated include but are not limited to efficiency peak power output average power output stability of voltage current phase and so on. This information could be thus aggregated and then leveraged in real time to control operation of the power grid or the information could be aggregated and leverages for longer periods of time such as day to day statistics of expected performance. The aggregated data could also be shared with manufacturers or 3parties to show how well systems compare expectations or are fairing in time.

Referring to at time power production units . . . are supplying power to the power grid e.g. as in of while the application server monitors local weather conditions for the given power group e.g. as in of . Referring to at time the monitoring of the application server results in a prediction that a cloud will temporarily disrupt power production of the given power group between times and e.g. as in of . Accordingly the application server transmits a control message via the Node B to prompt the power production units . . . of the given power group to store power in anticipation of the incoming cloud disruption e.g. as in of .

Referring to at time a shaded area C caused by the predicted cloud approaches the power production units . . . of the given power group. Prior to being impacted by the shaded area C the power production units . . . receive the control message from the application server and begin to divert all or part of the power output from grid delivery to local storage for use in power conditioning during the upcoming shade period e.g. as in of . Referring to at time a shaded area D caused by the predicted cloud covers power production units and and disrupted their power production. At time the shaded area D does not impact power production unit . Accordingly the power production units and detect the disruption to their power production caused by the shaded area D and condition the power being output to the power grid using the stored power e.g. as in and . Because the power production unit is not yet affected by the cloud at time the power production unit continues to divert power from its power output to the grid to local storage e.g. as in of .

Referring to at time a shaded area E now covers the power production unit and the power production units and are no longer shaded. Accordingly the power production units and resume normal operation e.g. as in of . The power production unit detects the disruption to its power production caused by the shaded area E and conditions its power being output to the power grid using the stored power e.g. as in and . Referring to at time the cloud has left the area and is no longer causing a shaded area to impact any of the power production units . . . . Accordingly the power production unit can also resume normal operation e.g. as in of . As will be appreciated a moving cloud is only one example trigger for a temporary power disruption. Accordingly are intended to clarify but not limit the operation of .

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE Node B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G 3G etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. SGSN GGSN application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to display information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display . In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touch screen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the display if implemented a touch screen buttons etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information . Further the configured logics or logic configured to of through are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality describe herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to of through are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic . Other interactions or cooperation between the configured logics through will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described above.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

