---

title: Quality of information assessment in dynamic sensor networks
abstract: Quality of information (QoI) assessment in dynamic sensor networks that includes evaluating, by a computer, a first value reflective of available reports from sensors that are dynamically associated with the computer. A second value reflective of reports expected to have been available for evaluation about the observed phenomena is estimated. A QoI of the available reports is assessed. The assessing is based on the first value reflective of the available reports and the second value reflective of reports expected to have been available for evaluation. A third value, based on the assessing is output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652349&OS=09652349&RS=09652349
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09652349
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120718
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 474 887 filed May 18 2012 the contents of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 06 3 0001 awarded by the U.S. Army. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to wireless networks and more specifically to quality of information QoI assessment in dynamic sensor networks.

With the increasing reliance on more and more sensors to monitor the state of objects and processes of interest e.g. humans engines structures environment traffic utilities water supplies etc. for various smart planet applications the QoI reported by sensors becomes more important to sensor aided decision making processes. QoI relates to the level of trust one can place in the validity of a piece of information to determine for example whether an event has really occurred whether the event occurred at the time and place noted in a report from a sensor and or whether the sensor is available when it is needed.

When sensor enabled applications are deployed in a tightly coupled manner along with their sensors such as for remote healthcare provisioning and structure building monitoring applications can be conditioned to identify missing or misbehaving sensor readings. This is due to the strong linkage between information sources sensors phenomena observed and the data information processors involved in assessing the situations observed. For example for a congestive heart failure monitoring application the coordination of sensory readings for electrocardiogram ECG blood pressure and weight may be involved A. Misra M. Blount A. Kementsietsidis D. M. Sow M. Wang Advances and Challenges for Scalable Provenance in Stream Processing Systems IPAW 2008 M. Wang M. Blount J. Davis A. Misra D. M. Sow A Time and Value Centric Provenance Model and Architecture for Medical Event Streams HealthNet 2007 . In this example an ECG sensor on a patient in a remote health monitoring application can only provide ECG observations. Thus any quality issues concerning the situation relate to the particular sensor e.g. missing measurements delayed measurements or inaccurate measurement due to sensor malfunction or mis calibration . These sensory readings are directly linked to the application and therefore if any of these sensors fail or in general misbehave this can be uniquely tracked and identified. In this case with complete knowledge of the sensors reporting to a sensor enabled application the QoI provided to that application can easily be assessed from the operational characteristics of the sensors involved. The operational characteristics of sensors may include their physical characteristics e.g. locations and logical characteristics e.g. interconnection topologies as well as the health of the sensors. In cases such as that described above where sensor enabled applications are deployed in a tightly coupled manner along with their sensors ratios of the form the number measurements received or used M over the maximum number of measurements expected N or M N are often used to reasonably capture the QoI collected.

Along with the previously described well planned and tightly coupled deployment of sensor networks and sensor enabled applications dynamic sensor networks e.g. ad hoc and or mobile are also emerging and becoming more commonplace. These dynamic sensor networks are deployed to either complement existing tightly coupled sensor networks or they may exist on their own to be used on demand for example when tightly coupled sensor networks are not practical. Such is the case when considering sensor networks that are deployed to support dynamically formed multi party teams for example for emergency response operations and military coalition intelligence surveillance target acquisition and reconnaissance I STAR operations vehicle mounted sensors roaming city streets monitoring air quality and reporting traffic conditions etc. and social network inspired participatory sensing using body mounted sensory devices e.g. smartphones etc. Such deployments result in loosely coupled systems where applications and sensors are deployed separately and then bind and exchange information on demand and for transient periods of time.

Exemplary embodiments include a method and a computer program product for quality of information QoI assessment in dynamic sensor networks. A first value reflective of available reports from sensors about an observed phenomena is evaluated by a computer. The sensors are dynamically associated with the computer. A second value reflective of reports expected to have been available for evaluation about the observed phenomena is estimated. A QoI of the available reports is assessed. The assessing is based on the first value reflective of the available reports and the second value reflective of reports expected to have been available for evaluation. A third value based on the assessing is output.

Exemplary embodiments also include a method and computer program product for receiving reports from sensors about an observed phenomena at a computer. The sensors are dynamically associated with the computer. A status of the sensors is assessed based on contents of the reports and characteristics of the sensors. The status of the sensors in output.

Additional features and advantages are realized through the techniques of the present invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein and are considered a part of the claimed invention. For a better understanding of the invention with the advantages and the features refer to the description and to the drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing quality of information QoI assessment in dynamic spatially distributed sensor enabled smart environments. Embodiments estimate the QoI of reports derived from spatially distributed sensor networks that are monitoring events e.g. threshold crossings of utility grids traffic conditions and border protection by dynamically computing the number of sensors expected to have contributed to the reports based on spatiotemporal properties of reported events.

In an embodiment sensor network s report observed phenomena also referred to herein as events along with a time and place of their occurrence. The system then correlates these spatiotemporal attributes of reported observed phenomena to deployment characteristics of sensor network s to estimate a number of sensors that should have contributed to the report e.g. based on exact deployment technology and or on a density of deployed sensors . In embodiments the QoI is estimated using the sensors that should have reported the event and the sensors that actually reported the event e.g. using the ratio of the corresponding two numbers . In embodiments reports that are received are analyzed and cross correlated to identify any quality problems with sensory platforms or sensors . The terms sensory platforms and sensors are used interchangeably herein.

In an embodiment QoI assessment in dynamic sensor networks includes evaluating a first value reflective of available reports from sensors that are dynamically associated with a computer. A second value reflective of reports expected to have been available for evaluation about the observed phenomena is estimated. A QoI of the available reports is assessed. The assessing is based on the first value reflective of the available reports and the second value reflective of reports expected to have been available for evaluation. A third value based on the assessing is output. As used herein outputting the value refers to making the value available to an entity such as but not limited to an application a register a storage location a display a communication system and a network. As used herein the term value refers to a number such as an integer or a floating point number a collection of numbers a character or a collection of characters a collection or character strings forming text or a combination of one or more of these. In addition the collection of numbers and or characters and strings may be organized in one or more vectors and or arrays. Further a combination of numbers and text may include stating the units applicable to the number e.g. four reports received .

The term quality of information or QoI is used herein to refer to the level of trust that can be placed on a piece of information i.e. how well the information conveys a true state of a monitored region or event . QoI has historically been studied in rigid information management systems in enterprise systems e.g. databases warehouses . The introduction of sensor networks allows ad hoc loosely coupled information sources where approaches used in the past to assess QoI may no longer work. Embodiments described herein aid QoI assessment in cases where sensor networks and sensor enabled applications are loosely coupled when tracking and identifying specific misbehaving sensors is impossible or impractical due for example to the large number of sensors in the sensor network. The QoI in an ad hoc sensor network may be affected by many factors such as but not limited to operating characteristics of the sensors operating characteristics of the network services operating characteristics of an application processor processing reports from sensors. In embodiments sensors may fixed e.g. located on a stationary or fixed platform or they may be mobile e.g. located on a cellular telephone a smart telephone or a tablet computer .

Providing complete assessment of QoI depends on the sensors involved and the applications they feed into. In other words a complete assessment of QoI is highly case specific. The sensor reports also referred to herein as sensory reports received serve as evidence in favor of or against a set of hypotheses about situations being observed in a specific spatiotemporal region e.g. there has been an increasing traffic volume in the intersection of roads X and Y during the past five minutes and consequently support decisions to be made. The number of sensor reports in favor of or against a hypothesis i.e. the number of collaborating reports M relative to the total number of sensor reports that could have provided reports during a particular spatiotemporal region can serve as a strong indicator for QoI. If for example two sensors report the occurrence of an event e.g. the entrance of a vehicle in a restricted area one may consider that the event has indeed occurred. However if the area in question is known to be monitored by twenty sensors of which only two reported the event then one may interpret the possibility of the event having occurred entirely differently and question the quality of the two reports received. The ratio q M N is referred to herein as the QoI ratio and an embodiment uses this ratio as a QoI metric or at least as a component in a QoI measure . In the QoI ratio N refers to the total number of reports expected.

For tightly coupled sensor enabled systems such as the ones used for example in monitoring the health of humans or structures e.g. bridges or buildings the sensors and their sensing capabilities their number their location etc. are all well known and presumably well documented and maintained . Hence the total number N that could have reported about the event that the M sensor reports indicate can easily be calculated and thus the QoI ratio q M N is easily computed.

In contrast for loosely coupled sensor networks where sensors could be mobile or events can happen in different locations in the sensing field or both knowing a priori which and how many sensor measurements will ideally contribute to a decision is impossible. Estimating the QoI ratio becomes challenging due to factors such as the higher operational unpredictability of the loosely coupled sensor systems of interest in embodiments described herein and therefore the higher need to assess QoI for such systems and lacking a clear picture of the specifics of the underlying sensor network even when the numerator M is available since it is what one receives estimating the denominator N. When a decision is being made following the collection and analysis of the sensor reports any association of this decision with a QoI level requires a fresh computation of M and N and hence QoI ratio M N as neither quantity is known in advance of receiving the reports.

According to embodiments described herein ancillary information about the sensor network is utilized to estimate N. For instance broad properties of the sensor network topology can be used without necessitating the need to identify each and every sensor in the topology. For example if the sensor deployment is such that it guarantees k coverage i.e. each point in the sensing field is observed by k sensors then N k. Alternatively if the sensor node deployment density e.g. in the region of interest is r and an event can influence an area A e.g. the seismic waves produced by a vehicle can be sensed within an area A then the expected number of sensors to report is A multiplied by r or Ar . In embodiments the density r is estimated by analyzing historical data as in situations like participatory sensing where density of people in an area as well as statistics of how many people carry cell phones are available. In alternate embodiments the spread location of the sensors reporting the event is used to estimate the area of event influence and this is used to estimate the number of sensors N that should report the event.

While the above alternatives relate to estimating the denominator N embodiments also deal with further analysis of the numerator M i.e. the number of reports received . In situations such as participatory sensing and crowd sensing where human carried multimodal sensing platforms e.g. smartphones are involved analysis of M may contribute not only to the QoI assessment but may also reveal sensing capabilities or lack of of the actual sensing platforms e.g. smart phones and or other devices that contain the sensors themselves. The latter information is then fed into QoI assessments for the current event or other occasions as well.

For illustrative purposes suppose that M sensory reports about a particular spatiotemporal region of interest e.g. close to a sports arena following a concert event are available. Of the M sensory reports M1 reports indicate an event may be occurring in the area while M2 reports may not be received or may be inconclusive. Suppose also that further analysis of these reports indicates that the overwhelming majority of the M1 reports are generated by smart phones that share a set of common characteristics of type T1 e.g. running version x.y.z1 of operating system D . On the other hand the overwhelming majority of the M2 reports are generated by smartphones that share a set of common characteristics of type T2 e.g. running operating system E or version x.y.z2 of operating system D . Such analysis may indicate that for example smartphones of type T2 may lack a sensing functionality or that smartphones of Type T1 may be experiencing misbehaving functionality e.g. a software bug that erroneously causes the generation of the M1 type of sensory reports where this bug does not appear in the updated release of the D version x.y.z2 OS that the M2 type smartphones use . Such analysis allows for the use of incoming reports from sensors for troubleshooting sensing platforms in very loosely coupled systems without the need to closely monitor the platforms themselves but instead comparing their information producing behavior against other platforms that happen to operate in their vicinity.

It is understood in advance that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based email . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds .

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a cloud computing node is shown. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove.

In cloud computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Referring now to illustrative cloud computing environment is depicted. As shown cloud computing environment comprises one or more cloud computing nodes with which local computing devices used by cloud consumers such as for example personal digital assistant PDA or cellular telephone A desktop computer B laptop computer C and or automobile computer system N may communicate. Nodes may communicate with one another. They may be grouped not shown physically or virtually in one or more networks such as Private Community Public or Hybrid clouds as described hereinabove or a combination thereof. This allows cloud computing environment to offer infrastructure platforms and or software as services for which a cloud consumer does not need to maintain resources on a local computing device. It is understood that the types of computing devices A N shown in are intended to be illustrative only and that computing nodes and cloud computing environment can communicate with any type of computerized device over any type of network and or network addressable connection e.g. using a web browser .

Referring now to a set of functional abstraction layers provided by cloud computing environment is shown. It should be understood in advance that the components layers and functions shown in are intended to be illustrative only and embodiments of the invention are not limited thereto. As depicted the following layers and corresponding functions are provided 

Hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes in one example IBM zSeries systems RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers in one example IBM pSeries systems IBM xSeries systems IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices networks and networking components. Examples of software components include network application server software in one example IBM WebSphere application server software and database software in one example IBM DB2 database software. IBM zSeries pSeries xSeries BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide .

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

In one example management layer may provide the functions described below. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and Pricing provide cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. User portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provide pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing transaction processing and data integration workflow processing.

Cloud computing is an attractive way to deliver services using a number of delivery models e.g. as Software as a Service SaaS Platform as a Service Paas Infrastructure as a Service IaaS as mentioned above. Cloud computing is attractive since it simplifies management from the end user perspective and delivers efficiencies that come from pooling resources. One potential drawback of cloud computing is increased communication between the end user terminal and the cloud computing infrastructure.

Increasingly smartphones i.e. mobile devices are the terminals of choice through which the end users consume different cloud computing applications and services. The present invention can be used to deliver cloud services and applications to the smartphones and other wireless devices connected through cellular infrastructure in a more efficient manner by optimizing communication between the smartphones and cloud computing infrastructure. In a cellular network the cloud computing infrastructure may be located in the base stations BSs to minimize latency between the end user terminals and the cloud. Alternatively the cloud computing infrastructure may be hosted in the physical space that houses aggregation points radio network controller or core network. In either case the bandwidth between the smartphones and the BS and the bandwidth between the BSs and the radio network controller can be limited and needs to be carefully used to optimize the user experience and deliver high quality cloud computing applications and services. The present invention discloses a method in which applications are tuned to address the bottlenecks in different communication links based on the measurements available at the BS in such a manner that the benefits of doing so are improved and the cost of measurements are reduced. It is noted that the utility of the described embodiments are not limited to applications and services being delivered using the cloud computing model.

In one exemplary embodiment a sensor network decision center application in the management layer implements the processes described herein however it will be understood that the sensor network decision center application may be implemented in any layer.

The sensor network decision center application includes one or more algorithms or functions to implement embodiments described herein to assess QoI in sensor networks as well as to assess sensing capabilities of sensors within sensor networks. In an embodiment the sensor network decision center application along with other portions of management layer and or virtualization layer are coupled to and or reside in the memory shown in . In addition embodiments of the sensor network decision center application include one or more program modules of the program utility shown in . In a further embodiment the sensor network decision center application is part of the management layer and is executed on hardware located in the hardware and software layer .

Turning now to a diagram of a sensor network and a sensor network decision center in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is generally shown. As shown in a large number of generic sensors e.g. acoustic seismic temperature are deployed over areas of interest and the sensors collaboratively contribute to situation assessment. Sensors or regional sensor networks made up of two or more sensors make decisions about events that they observe and the sensors transmit their decisions via reports to a central or regionally central sensor network decision center . An example decision could be that the air pollution due to car emissions at a specific intersection observed by the sensors has reached a critical level. Individual sensors may not always make a determination of a situation and issue a pertinent decision. Rather they may only report the measurements they make e.g. the air pollution levels observed and provide these to an appropriate entity that makes determinations and decisions such as the sensor network decision center . Sensors or regional sensor networks provide their decisions or their measurements in sensor reports which they provide over the sensor network and other appropriate networks such as the Internet to the sensor network decision center . Note that in alternative embodiments individual sensors may first report to regional sensor networks which in turn may compose new reports to send to the sensor network decision center based on the contents of the reports they received.

In an embodiment a report may include but is not limited to one or more of a timestamp reflecting when the report was generated a measured value e.g. an air pollution level or decision made e.g. the pollution level is above specified threshold timestamps for each or group of the measurements or decisions made and information about the sensing platform such as but not limited to the brand and model of the sensor its battery reserve if it relies on battery for its operation its location and its configuration set up e.g. threshold level . Alternatively and especially for static information the report may include an indicator to a repository entry that contains pertinent information about the sensor such as but not limited to sensor model location for fixed position sensors sensor and sensor network administrator and operator operational credentials such as certification and maintenance log .

The sensor network decision center executes a sensor network decision center application e.g. on a computer processor such as processing unit in computer system in order to estimate the QoI received at the sensor network decision center . In an embodiment an output from the sensor network decision center is the estimated QoI received at the sensor network decision center . In an embodiment the output from the sensor network decision center is an alert that is communicated to proper authorities for subsequent action. For example in the case of the air pollution level crossing a threshold level this may indicate excessive traffic congestion and an alert may be sent to traffic control authorities that may act by altering the flows of traffic leading to the intersection. Hence to reduce congestion and air pollution traffic may be diverted around the congested areas by altering the traffic signaling and traffic flow signage on the way to the congested area. In an embodiment this could happen under an explicit intervention of a traffic authority which may need to first approve the traffic changes. In another embodiment this could happen automatically with the computer processes in the sensor network decision center communicating directly with the computing processes that control the pertinent traffic lights and traffic flow signage.

As shown in the sensor network decision center is not tied to any specific sensor or regional sensor network . Events occur over a spatiotemporal horizon and only a subset of sensors can record each event . If a sensor does not report an event it does not automatically mean that it missed a measurement or that there was a delay in the transmission or some other communications problem. It could mean for example that the sensor did not report the event due to duty cycling e.g. where a sensor is powered on of a certain percentage of the time and powered off the rest of the time .

In an embodiment the sensor network decision center application reacts to the information received from the sensors . For example the sensors may monitor a municipal quality of life measurement such as air quality and or traffic. Sensors may be located in fixed locations e.g. attached to telephone poles buildings etc. and or they may be mobile e.g. attached to cars cell phones etc. .

In an embodiment the output from the sensor network decision center is a report that includes a decision that the sensor network decision center is making e.g. that the pollution has crossed a threshold or that event x took place in location y . The output may also include a QoI associated with the decision. Thus the QoI may be reflective on the confidence on the validity of the output produced based on the data received the analysis of which caused the output to be produced . The level of confidence placed on the output is based on the level of confidence place on the data received from the sensors. Thus the confidence level and hence the QoI may be applied to either or both the incoming data or the decision made.

Turning to a diagram of a sensor network and a sensor network decision center in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is generally shown. In the case shown in the maximum number of sensors that can report an event is unknown and it is assumed that each region is covered by a least a specified number of sensors . An assumption is made that the deployment of sensors is such that each region is covered by at least k sensors and thus ideally each event is reported by at least k sensors. Suppose that k is equal to two and thus each of the regions shown in is assumed to be covered by at least two sensors . In the example shown in the region which covers the area that is within a specified distance of event is assumed to be covered by at least two sensors .

In an embodiment if the sensor network decision center receives reports from two sensors that are within region then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a first decision and a first QoI level. If the sensor network decision center receives reports from only one sensor that is within region then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a second decision and a second QoI level that indicates a lower confidence in the data received from the sensors and corresponding decision made than the first decision and the first QoI level. If the sensor network decision center receives reports from three sensors that are within region then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a third decision and a third QoI level that indicates a higher confidence in the data received from the sensors and corresponding decision made than the first decision and the first QoI level.

In an embodiment if the reports from two of the sensors contain similar information about the event then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a fourth decision and a fourth QoI level. If the reports from three of the sensors contain similar information about the event then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a fifth decision and a fifth QoI level that indicates a higher confidence in the data received from the sensors and corresponding decision made than the fourth decision and the fourth QoI level. In an embodiment these two approaches are combined to produce an output that reflects a level of confidence in the data received and decisions made based on the received data that is based on both the number of sensors reporting and the consistency of data received from the reporting sensors .

In the example above k is set to two for ease in description. The value of k may be any number from one to several thousand or more and is set based on information about the deployment topology of sensors within a geographic area. In addition the value of k may programmatically be changed based on factors such as but not limited to time of day type of day e.g. on holidays k may be higher and historical data about the number of sensors detected in the past in the region.

Turning to a diagram of a sensor network and a sensor network decision center in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is generally shown. In the case shown in it is assumed that sensors are deployed with a specified density p . If the sensors are deployed with density p then a region having an area of A will contain A multiplied by p Ap sensors on average . Thus on average Ap sensors will provide samples in reports to the sensor network decision center . This approach requires using an estimate of the average area A that an event can impact.

Suppose that density p is equal to one sensor per square meter and the area A is equal to three square meters. Then the region shown in is expected to be covered by at least three sensors . As shown in the sensor network decision center receives reports from three sensors that are within region . In an embodiment if the reports from two of the sensors contain similar information about the event then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a first decision and a first QoI level. If the reports from three of the sensors contain similar information about the event then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a second decision and a second QoI level that indicates a higher confidence in the data received from the sensors and corresponding decision made than the first decision and the first QoI level.

In an embodiment if the sensor network decision center receives reports from three sensors that are within region then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a third decision and a third QoI level. If the sensor network decision center receives reports from only two sensors that are within region then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a fourth decision and a fourth QoI level that indicates a lower confidence in the data received from the sensors and corresponding decision made than the third decision and the third QoI level. If the sensor network decision center receives reports from four sensors that are within region then the report output from the sensor network decision center includes a fifth decision and a fifth QoI level that indicates a higher confidence in the data received from the sensors and corresponding decision made than the first decision and the first QoI level.

In an embodiment these two approaches are combined to produce a report output from the sensor network decision center that reflects a level of confidence in the data received and decisions made based on data received that is based on both the number of sensors reporting and consistency of data received from the reporting sensors .

In the example above p is set to one sensor per square meter and A is set to three square meters for ease in description. The value of p may be any number from one to several thousand or more and may be expressed in any units e.g. square miles square feet square kilometers and is set based on information about the deployment topology of sensors within a geographic area. Similarly the value of A may be any number from one to several thousand or more and may be expressed in any units e.g. square miles square feet square kilometers and is set based on information about the deployment topology of sensors within a geographic area. In addition the values of p and A may programmatically be changed based on factors such as but not limited to time of day type of day e.g. on holidays k may be higher and historical data about the number of sensors detected in the past in the region.

The approaches shown in can be further generalized to consider deployment density distributions such as but not limited to two dimensional 2D Poisson on the entire area of deployment and 2D Gaussian around the center of the deployment region. Embodiments based on this approach introduce the percentiles of area impact in terms of how large small an area should be such that no more than y percent of sensors in the area record the event.

The approaches described previously in reference to may be referred to as parametric in that they assume that the underlying deployment topology satisfies parametric constraints e.g. k coverage density distribution etc. . In embodiments non parametric principles may also be considered. An embodiment of a non parametric approach includes using existing measurements and knowledge of sensor locations to estimate the number of sensors that did not report the event and making a statement about the quality of the report. For example a sensor network decision center such as sensor network decision center may receive reports about an event such as event from several different sensors such as sensors . The two sensors that reported the event that are the farthest away from each other are identified and their distance apart d is calculated. An area A d defined by d is identified. In an embodiment A d is a circle that includes the two farthest apart reporting sensors. In another embodiment A d is a square or other shape. All sensors within A d are expected to provide reports on the event. In an embodiment the number of sensors within A d is calculated using one or more of k coverage and density distribution as described previously.

For example suppose that an event must be identified and announced within T seconds from its occurrence. Using the diagram of the sensor network and the sensor network decision center shown in as an example several actions take place within the T seconds including a local decision is made at the sensor level e.g. by a sensor to report the event a report is sent over the communication link to the sensor network decision center and a decision is made at the sensor network decision center to generate an output that includes a report that announces the occurrence of the event . For this example it is assumed that all of the processing and communication delays are small compared to the time interval of T seconds and can be ignored. Now suppose that the event affects region with area A and that the sensors are deployed in the region with a density of r and hence the number of sensors expected to report on the event is Ar. Thus in this example the time based quality criterion is Q j Ar where jis the number of sensors that within T seconds have locally decided in favor of the event as viewed by the sensor network decision center . In this example it is assumed that sensors only send reports when there positive decisions made e.g. they detect the event .

In an embodiment A is determined by selecting the maximum distance dbetween all pairs of sensors that reported event no more than T seconds apart a non parametric approach . The area A is the circular area with diameter dlocated in the midst of two sensors whose distance between them is d. Thus A the area of the region is d 2 . In this example the QoI ratio at time T is Q j Ar which is equal to 4 j d r .

There are different strategies to computing j which is expected to depend on T the amount of time to report the event hence the notation j. In an embodiment time is segmented into intervals of length T and sensor made decisions that arrive within each such interval or jumping window are counted. In an embodiment counting is started from the time when the first decision arrives. In another embodiment timestamps of decisions included in reports are also taken into consideration. For example a decision arriving later may have an earlier timestamp indicating that the event occurred earlier than originally thought.

In an embodiment an analysis of sensor reports received is used to discover if there are other quality issues pertaining to the sensory platforms themselves. For a collection of sensory reports taken from the same spatiotemporal region it is expected that they will contain collaborative reports. Deviations in the reports may be indicative of diverting operational characteristics of the corresponding sensory platforms. In this case the reports are further analyzed to identify characteristics of the sensory platforms and correlate these features with observed reporting behavior. In an embodiment the sensory platforms are smartphones that are being used for participatory sensing. Smartphone metadata or characteristics e.g. brand model year of manufacture software version hardware version battery reserves operating system software configuration parameter hardware configuration parameter a platform the sensor is mounted on a platform owner a platform administrator a sensor owner and a sensor administrator are included in the reports to a sensor network decision center or alternatively obtained from the network services provider serving these smartphones. In an embodiment the latter can be done if the analysis of the sensor reports is performed by the network services provider who can retrieve subscriber and device information from its own service and subscriber repositories. The network service provider may use the results of this analysis for its own purposes e.g. to troubleshoot the smartphones and the services they offer on its network. The network provider may also provide the analysis results to third party entities e.g. smartphone manufacturers for their troubleshooting purposes. In an embodiment the analysis of the sensor reports may be performed by a party other than the network services provider e.g. smartphone manufacturers. In this case the network service provider may supply the sensor reports along with pertinent service and subscriber information to the third party. By correlating the sensor reports with the metadata it can be determined whether the sensing modules of the report operate as expected or whether they have potential software and or hardware errors or inconsistencies. This information is output from sensor network decision center and may be used to upgrade the sensory platforms. In addition this information may be used as a factor in generating a QoI estimate.

For example suppose that M1 sensor reports are received that indicate that traffic may currently not be moving in a particular street intersection of interest e.g. a spatiotemporal region of interest . Also suppose that M2 sensor reports are received from an area around the particular street intersection of interest that indicate that traffic may be flowing through the intersection of interest. And there may be a third group of M3 sensor reports that are inconclusive about the status of the traffic at the particular street intersection of interest. An embodiment would further analyze the reports to determine the commonalities and differences between the sensors and or sensor platforms generating the M1 M2 and M3 sensor reports. For example most of the M2 reports may come from a particular type of sensor and or from a sensor platform executing the same type of software i.e. sensors having the same or similar metadata . This may indicate an error in the hardware and or software of the sensors generating the M2 reports. Or vice versa it may indicate an error in the hardware and or software of the sensors generating the M1 reports. In addition the reports of inconclusiveness from the sensors generating M3 reports may indicate that these sensors require an upgrade or a repositioning for fixed sensors or other maintenance action. This type of analysis allows for the use of incoming reports from sensors for troubleshooting sensing platforms in very loosely coupled systems without the need to closely monitor the platforms themselves but instead by comparing their information producing behavior against other platforms that happen to operate in their vicinity. As mentioned earlier the results of this assessment of operating characteristics of the sensors can be received by the network service provider to troubleshoot the smartphones and services used by its subscribers or by the smartphone or smartphone application manufacturers to troubleshoot the smartphone platforms and applications respectively.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one more other features integers steps operations element components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

The flow diagrams depicted herein are just one example. There may be many variations to this diagram or the steps or operations described therein without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified. All of these variations are considered a part of the claimed invention.

While the preferred embodiment to the invention had been described it will be understood that those skilled in the art both now and in the future may make various improvements and enhancements which fall within the scope of the claims which follow. These claims should be construed to maintain the proper protection for the invention first described.

