---

title: Submunition and cluster munition containing submunitions
abstract: A cluster munition may include a plurality of submunitions that are ejected from a delivery vehicle. Each submunition is single target discriminating and includes electronic self-destruct and self-deactivate capability. Each submunition includes a microprocessor and a wireless communication device connected to the microprocessor. Each submunition includes a deployable antenna/stabilizer that functions as an antenna for the wireless communication device and as a stabilizer to stabilize the descent of the submunition. Optionally, the deployable antenna/stabilizer may also facilitate ejection of the submunition from the delivery vehicle. The submunitions may wirelessly communicate with each other and with other entities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08985025&OS=08985025&RS=08985025
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08985025
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120910
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 567 238 filed on Dec. 6 2011 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to munitions and in particular to submunitions and cluster munitions.

Cluster bombs may be dispensed from dispensers and dropped in a pattern to blanket a target area. This method may be used to increase the probability that an individual submunition will encounter engage and destroy targets within the target area. Submunitions may be ejected in a dispersion pattern that may depend on the nature of the ejection mechanism used in the submunition carrier. Submunitions may be armed as they are dispensed from the cluster bomb or other carrier. If the submunitions do not encounter and engage a target they may remain unexploded armed and lethal when they impact the ground and after impact with the ground.

This overall approach to engaging one or more targets with many individual munitions or dispensed submunitions is often referred to as an area attack and is a statistical methodology for defeating targets. Area attack may be contrasted with precision attack which typically uses one precision guided munition to engage each target individually. Assuming an accurate target location precision attack may yield a higher percentage of kills per munition but at a substantially higher cost due to the use of precision guidance and control on each munition.

Submunitions of various kinds may be ejected or dispersed from a carrier such as a missile mortar rocket or cannon projectile. Generally the carrier brings the submunitions to a location close to the target and the submunitions are then ejected or dispersed near the target. The submunitions may free fall from the ejection location and rely on statistical distribution to hit the target or the submunitions may include a guidance system to move them closer to the target. A number of methods are known for guiding the submunitions to the final target.

One method employs terminal guidance systems such as infrared seekers and other IR detection and guidance systems as shown for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 492 166. Another method provides mechanical control systems such as aerofoils or special wings with a target detector such as those shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5 155 294 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 635 553. In U.S. Pat. No. 4 554 871 assigned to Allied Corporation there is disclosed a missile that carries at least two asymmetric submunitions. The guidance system on each submunition causes the submunition to precess about its center axis thereby creating an appropriate search pattern or controlling the flight path of the submunition after a suitable target has been acquired by the submunition s guidance system.

Satellite aided global location systems such as the Global Positioning System GPS are also well known in the art. These systems utilize several satellites to permit a body on the earth to calculate such as by triangulation its precise location on the globe. Global location systems today are used in guidance systems for a wide variety of objects. These include munitions such as bombs and missiles. There is shown for instance in U.S. Pat. No. 5 943 009 assigned to Northrop Grumman Corporation a munition with a tail fin assembly at least one flight control surface having an actuator and a guidance system having a GPS receiver for effecting control of the actuator to facilitate guiding of the munition.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 709 discloses a system and method that uses differential computation of position relative to a GPS coordinate system and the computation of an optimum weapon flight path to guide a weapon to a non moving fixed or re locatable target. The system comprises an airborne platform with a navigation subsystem that utilizes the GPS satellite system to provide the coordinate system and a synthetic array radar SAR to locate desirable targets. Targeting is done prior to weapon launch therefore the weapon requires only a navigation subsystem that also utilizes the GPS satellite system to provide the same coordinate system that the platform uses.

There is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5 507 452 a precision guided system suitable for use in conventional aircraft launched bombs. The system includes a kit mounted upon the nose of the conventional bomb which replaces the conventional fuse disposed in a fuse well. The kit includes guidance electronics that control a self contained jet reaction device and GPS P code receiver electronics. The bombs are readied for discharge by signals broadcast from the aircraft into the bomb bay. Readying the bombs includes transferring initial GPS data and commencing operation of a gas generator which powers the jet reaction device.

There is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 6 481 666 a method and system for guiding submunitions in which a satellite aided global location system is utilized to control a parachute disposed on each submunition. In particular the orientation of the parachute is adjusted by a servo which in turn is controlled by the guidance system thus allowing alteration in direction of downward travel of the submunition. U.S. Pat. Appl. Publication No. 2007 0266884 discloses a dispenser system for controllably deploying components such as unmanned ground sensors into a desired pattern and orientation. The dispenser system utilizes a GPS based guidance system to control the deployment of the main canister rather than the submunitions.

All of the above mentioned systems include the use of satellite aided global location systems to guide a munition over a relatively long distance and or control a relatively complex guidance system to control for example the orientation of fins parachutes etc. . Thus the electronics and control system required to guide the munitions are complex and expensive to manufacture and maintain. Further the submunitions themselves are incapable of communicating with one another so as provide selective targeting. Moreover deployment of conventional cluster munitions results in relatively high incidences of unexploded ordinance.

The Oslo Treaty dated May 30 2008 requires that all cluster munitions weighing less than 20 kg contain less than 10 submunitions. Each submunition must be single target discriminating must weigh more than 4 kg and must have an electronic self destruct and self deactivate capability. The conventional cluster munitions described above do not meet the Oslo Treaty requirements. A need exists for a cluster munition and submunitions that meet the Oslo Treaty requirements while also providing effective targeting and enemy elimination characteristics.

It is an object of the invention to provide a cluster munition and submunitions that meet the Oslo Treaty requirements while also providing effective targeting and enemy elimination characteristics.

One aspect of the invention is a submunition. The submunition may include a submunition body with explosive material therein. A deployable antenna stabilizer is attached to the submunition body. A wireless communication device is disposed on the submunition and is electrically connected to the deployable antenna stabilizer. A microprocessor is disposed on the submunition and is electrically connected to the wireless communication device. A means for determining a relative location of the submunition is electrically connected to the microprocessor. A multi mode fuze is electrically connected to the microprocessor. The multi mode fuze includes at least two of a a proximity fuze for detonating the submunition in a selected proximity of the submunition to a target b a point detonating fuze for detonating the submunition when contacting a target and c a timer based fuze for detonating the submunition after a selected time has elapsed.

The deployable antenna stabilizer may be for example at least one of a coil a foldable flat spring and a drogue chute.

The submunition may include one or more sensors selected from the group consisting of for example IR sensor microwave sensor laser sensor UV sensor barometer and altimeter. The sensors are electrically connected to the microprocessor.

Another aspect of the invention is a cluster munition. The cluster munition includes a submunition delivery vehicle having a main body portion. A plurality of the inventive submunitions are disposed in the main body portion. The delivery vehicle may include a wireless communication device and a microprocessor electrically connected to the wireless communication device.

Another aspect of the invention is a method that includes launching the cluster munition and ejecting the plurality of inventive submunitions from the delivery vehicle. The method includes creating a wireless communication network between the wireless communication devices of the plurality of submunitions. Creating the network may include creating a wireless communication network between the wireless communication devices of the plurality of submunitions and the wireless communication device of the delivery vehicle.

The method may include determining relative locations of the plurality of submunitions using each submunition s means for determining relative location. Target location information may be sent from the microprocessor of the delivery vehicle to respective microprocessors of each of the plurality of submunitions.

The target location information may include a single desired target location for each submunition a listing of all possible target locations and a friendly hostile identifier for each of the all possible target locations.

The method may include using each submunition s respective microprocessor and means for determining relative location to estimate the submunition s end location then comparing the submunition s estimated end location to its single desired target location and then executing a safe action if the estimated end location is not the single desired target location or if the desired target location has a friendly identifier. The safe action may include one of deactivating the submunition and detonating the submunition.

The method may include for each submunition that reaches ground wirelessly transmitting from the submunition information regarding location of the submunition and status of the submunition. The status information may include one of a pre deactivation state and a pre self destruct state.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In deployable antenna stabilizer is in the form of a coil having a first end attached to submunition body and a second end opposite first end . In the deployed or uncompressed state of second end is distal submunition body and coil has a diameter that increases from first end to second end . Coil may stabilize the orientation of submunition as it descends in the air. Coil may be made of for example a metallic or semi metallic material Coil may be coiled on its edge or may be coiled about its face . Coiling about face will present a larger surface area in the direction of descent of submunition and increase the drag. Coil may include a plurality of curved and or straight portions.

One or more wireless communication devices may be disposed on submunition . Wireless communication device may be electrically connected to coil . Coil may function as an antenna for wireless communication device . Wireless communication device may communicate with communication devices exterior to submunition for purposes such as for example receiving programming data transmitting sensor data etc. Wireless communication device may be for example an active and or passive RFID chip a laser or a microwave or millimeter wave communication device.

In deployable antenna stabilizer is in the form of a foldable flat spring having a first end attached to submunition body and a second end opposite first end . shows foldable flat spring in a deployed state. Foldable flat spring may be made of for example a metallic or semi metallic material. Foldable flat spring may be electrically connected to and act as an antenna for wireless communication device . Foldable flat spring may also aerodynamically stabilize orient or decelerate submunition during its descent. One or more foldable flat springs may be used with a single submunition body .

As seen in coil may be scored in certain locations to define discrete sections such as sections and between scoring lines . Scoring lines enable sections of coil to be easily and cleanly broken off to tailor the overall length of coil to fit in various delivery vehicles. Such tailoring is especially useful when retrofitting existing cluster munition delivery vehicles with embodiments of submunitions .

In the embodiment of coil includes a straight portion at second end . After submunition is ejected from delivery vehicle coil springs into the uncompressed state shown in and straight portion may extend radially beyond the external radius or the circumference of submunition body . That is distance d in is greater than the length of external radius R of body so that straight portion acting as an antenna for wireless communication device may transmit and receive RF signals to objects below at lower elevations than submunition . Such objects may include other submunitions ejected from delivery vehicle or from another delivery vehicle.

One or more projections may be attached to or formed integral with coil . Projections may increase the effective RF transmission and reception range of coil acting as antenna for wireless communication device . Projections may take any desired shape and size as long as they do not hinder the compressibility of coil .

In addition to coil and flat foldable spring another form of deployable antenna stabilizer is a drogue chute . Drogue chute may be desirable for more massive submunitions . Drogue chute may be used with or without one of coil and flat foldable spring . Drogue chute may be attached to submunition body with rigging lines . Drogue chute can provide additional drag thereby slowing descent of submunition . Drogue chute may also help provide proper orientation of submunition relative to the ground. Parachutes X drags or other means of increasing drag may also be used.

Rigging lines attach drogue chute to submunition body . Rigging lines may be partially or wholly made of metallic and or semimetallic material. Rigging lines may be electrically connected to wireless communication device and may function as an antenna for wireless communication device . If it is desired that drogue chute also facilitate ejection of submunition from delivery vehicle then each rigging line may be in the form of a small tightly wound coil spring . When used with coil rigging lines of drogue chute may be looped through coil to thereby create an omnidirectional loop antenna. The length of rigging lines may be adjusted to vary the drag on submunition to tailor rigging lines to a desired radio frequency or to conform to the size of coil. To increase drag the diameter of drogue chute may be greater than the diameter of the submunition body .

As shown in submunition may include a programmable microprocessor electrically connected to various devices for example wireless communication device sensors a multi mode fuze and position locating means . Position locating means may determine at least the relative spatial location of submunition and in some embodiments the absolute location of submunition . Position locating means may be for example a polarized RF relative positioning system. RF relative positioning systems are disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 193 556 issued on Mar. 20 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 298 255 issued on Nov. 20 2007 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 425 918 issued on Sep. 16 2008 which are all expressly incorporated by reference herein. Position locating means may include an altimeter. Another type of locating means is a GPS global positioning system . The GPS may provide absolute location of submunition . In the claims the means for determining a relative location of the submunition corresponds to locating means .

A variety of sensors may be connected to microprocessor to transmit and receive data. Sensors may be disposed in any appropriate location within or on submunition . Examples of sensors are IR sensors microwave sensors laser sensors UV detectors temperature sensors altimeters barometers timers etc. Sensors such as IR sensors microwave sensors and laser sensors may be used to measure proximity of submunition to a target or location and or provide data utilized to single target discriminate. Single target discrimination helps to avoid collateral damage. Environmental sensors such as an altimeter etc. may also assist in single target discrimination. In addition environmental sensors may indicate that submunition should be deactivated for example when submunition has not exploded for a predetermined period of time after deployment.

Multi mode fuze may include at least two of a a proximity fuze for detonating submunition in a selected proximity of the submunition to a target b a point detonating fuze for detonating submunition when contacting a target and c a timer based fuze for detonating submunition after a selected time has elapsed. Preferably multi mode fuze includes all three types of the afore mentioned fuzes. As shown in the proximity fuze may detonate submunition when it is in a proximity distance Y of a target T. If the proximity fuze fails the point detonating impact fuze may initiate detonation upon impact of submunition with target T. If the point detonating fuze also fails a timer based fuze initiates detonation within a preset time period after firing. Multiple layers of redundancy are provided by multi mode fuze which greatly diminishes the possibility of unexploded ordnance being left in the field.

In one embodiment a cluster munition or delivery vehicle includes a programmable microprocessor and a wireless communication device electrically connected to microprocessor . Prior to or after launching delivery vehicle target information may be loaded onto microprocessor of delivery vehicle and or onto microprocessors of submunitions contained in delivery vehicle .

Before launch or at any point in the process in step S wireless communication device of delivery vehicle or another wireless communication device for example a wireless device on a drone or manned aircraft may send target location information to each submunition . The target location information may include a single desired target location Xfor each submunition 1 through N Table 1 a listing of all possible target locations Table 2 and a friendly hostile identifier for each of the all possible target locations Table 2 . One way to specify locations is by specifying latitude longitude and elevation.

In step S position locating means of each submunition may determine each submunition s absolute or relative position. The position information may be wirelessly communicated to other submunitions and delivery vehicles . In step S each submunition s respective microprocessor and locating means may be used to estimate that submunition s end location. In step S microprocessor may then compare the submunition s estimated end location with its single desired target location. In step S microprocessor may then execute a safe action if the estimated end location is not the single desired target location or if the desired target location has a friendly identifier. The safe action may include one of deactivating submunition and detonating submunition .

If no safe action was executed in step S and submunition is in proximity to its single desired target then in step S proximity fuze in multi mode fuze will detonate submunition . If the proximity fuze fails and submunition impacts its single desired target then in step S the point detonating fuze of multi mode fuze will detonate submunition . If submunition reaches the ground without detonating then in step S submunition may wirelessly transmit its location information and its status information to for example one or more delivery vehicles or another wireless communication device that is in range of submunition such as a communication device in a drone or manned aircraft. The status information may include whether submunition is preparing to deactivate or whether submunition is preparing to self destruct. The location information and status information of submunition after it reaches the ground is an important tool in eliminating the problem of unexploded ordnance. In step S submunition will deactivate for example if submunition is in a friendly location or detonate for example if submunition is in a hostile location .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof. For example deployable antenna stabilizer may be embodied in forms other than coil foldable flat spring or drogue chute .

