---

title: System and method for price-based annotations in an electronic trading environment
abstract: A system and method for generating and displaying annotations in relation to one or more prices corresponding to trader-related or market related events are described. In one embodiment, a trader may enter an annotation to be displayed in relation to one or more price levels. Alternatively, a trader may configure a dynamic annotation to be dynamically displayed in relation to some price level(s) upon detecting a predetermined event related to one or more tradeable objects. Also, a trader may configure one or more alarms to be displayed or played in combination with the annotations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380616&OS=08380616&RS=08380616
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08380616
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120430
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 165 321 filed Jun. 21 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 190 509 issued on May 29 2012 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 903 999 filed on Oct. 13 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 991 687 issued Aug. 2 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 645 739 filed on Dec. 23 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 835 981 issued Nov. 16 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 634 415 filed on Aug. 5 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 716 112 issued May 11 2010 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 260 644 filed on Sep. 30 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 610 237 issued Oct. 27 2009 the contents of all which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. More specifically the present invention is directed towards providing means for creating annotations associated with prices and using the annotations as a basis to generate user alerts.

Trading methods have evolved from a manually intensive process to a technology enabled electronic platform. With the advent of electronic trading a user or trader can be in a virtually direct contact with the market from practically anywhere in the world performing near real time transactions and without the need to make personal contact with a broker.

Electronic trading is generally based on a host exchange one or more computer networks and client devices. In general the host exchange includes one or more centralized computers to form the electronic heart. Its operations typically include order matching maintaining order books and positions price information and managing and updating a database that records such information. The host exchange is also equipped with an external interface that maintains uninterrupted contact to the client devices and possibly other trading related systems.

Using client devices market participants or traders link to the host exchange through one or more networks. A network is a group of two or more computers or devices linked together. There are many types of wired and wireless networks such as local area networks and wide area networks. Networks can also be characterized by topology protocol and architecture. For example some market participants may link to the host through a direct connection such as a T1 or ISDN. Some participants may link to the host exchange through direct connections and through other common network components such as high speed servers routers and gateways. The Internet a well known collection of networks and gateways can be used to establish a connection between the client device and the host exchange. There are many different types of networks and combinations of network types known in the art that can link traders to the host exchange.

Regardless of the way in which a connection is established software running on the client devices allows market participants to log onto one or more exchanges and participate in at least one market. A client device is a computer such as a personal computer laptop computer hand held computer and so forth that has network access. In general client devices run software that creates specialized interactive trading screens. Trading screens enable market participants to obtain market quotes monitor positions and submit orders to the host.

Generally when an order is submitted to a host exchange the host checks the conditions associated with the order for example price and quantity and prioritizes the order with other orders of the same price. When the order conditions are satisfied in the market a trade occurs and trade information is then relayed in some fashion to one or more client devices. In fact the host exchanges typically publish a data feed to the client devices so that the traders can have access to the most current market information.

Market information commonly includes information regarding the inside market and market depth. The inside market is the lowest sell price in the market and the highest buy price in the market at a particular point in time. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and may also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words a host exchange usually provides the total buy or the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the host exchange. For instance some host exchanges provide market depth for all or many price levels while some provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all. Additionally host exchanges can offer other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and order fill information.

The success of a trader who trades in a competitive electronic trading environment depends on many factors. One of the most important factors is how fast a trader can make a trade. Another important factor is the ability of a trader to predict market trends and develop his her trading strategies. Some traders keep journals to document their trading activities and or market trends during a particular trading day or a number of trading days to observe market trends. Using such a journal and assuming that the information in the journal is kept up to date a trader may view past market trends and his her own performance hoping to predict future market trends and to avoid previous negative trading strategies. However it might be difficult for a trader to view his notes related to important market events from one or more previous trading days while concentrating on trading in a volatile market for example.

Thus it is still desirable for electronic trading applications to offer tools that can assist a trader in trading in an electronic trading environment help making profitable trades in a speedy and accurate manner while allowing the trader to conveniently record and view any desirable information.

As described with reference to the accompanying Figures the present invention provides a trading interface that displays a plurality of user configurable annotations in relation to a plurality of price levels. In one embodiment a trading interface may display a market information display region that includes a plurality of locations arranged such that each location corresponds to a price level of a first tradeable object being traded at one or more electronic exchanges. Then the trading interface may receive an input to flag one or more annotations each consisting of at least one price level associated with the tradeable object and one annotation occurrence of an event that can be manually entered or automatically generated. Once a trader enters an annotation the annotation may be displayed in one or more locations corresponding to the flagged price levels.

For example an annotation may correspond to a yesterday s high and may be displayed in relation to a price level corresponding to the yesterday s high. Alternatively a trader may configure dynamic annotations that may be dynamically displayed in relation to one or more price levels upon detecting a predetermined event associated with a tradeable object. For example a trader may configure an annotation to be displayed in relation to a price level associated with a first tradeable object upon detecting a predetermined event associated with a second tradeable object. It should be understood that the price level at which the automatic annotation is displayed may be determined based on any user configurable conditions such as a current market level at the time when the annotation is generated. For example a trader may configure an automatic annotation to be displayed in relation to a last traded price or a midpoint between the inside market prices. Also a user created annotation may be dynamically updated upon detecting an occurrence of a predetermined event associated with the annotation at some other price level. For example an annotation corresponding to the Yesterday s High may be automatically updated at the end of the day to reflect the new Yesterday s High for the next trading session.

In addition to annotations a trader could configure a number of alerts that may be played or displayed to a trader in combination with or independently of one or more annotations. For example an alert may be configured as part of a dynamic annotation and the alert may be triggered upon creating or updating the annotation. Alternatively any annotation may be combined with an alert that may be activated when a current market reaches one or more price levels associated with the annotation. For example a trader may wish to see or hear an alert upon a market reaching a yesterday s or last week s high price.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Those having ordinary skill of art will recognize that many additional modifications and embodiments are possible as well.

Host exchanges and may represent electronic exchanges such as for example the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange LIFFE the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT the New York Stock Exchange NYSE the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME the German stock exchange Exchange Electronic Trading Xetra or the European Exchange Eurex or any other exchange which may include basic to more complex systems that automatically and electronically match incoming orders. These example exchanges and other exchanges are well known in the art. Communication protocols required for connectivity to one of these exchanges are also well known in the art.

Exchanges allow traders to log onto a market to trade tradeable objects. As used herein the term tradeable objects refers simply to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of tradeable objects such as financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

An exchange can implement numerous types of order execution algorithms and sometimes the type of algorithm depends on the tradeable object being traded. The preferred embodiments may be adapted by one skilled in the art of work with any particular order execution algorithm. Some example order execution algorithms include first in first out and pro rata algorithms. The first in first out FIFO algorithm that is used for some markets listed with Eurex for example gives priority to the first person to place an order. The pro rata algorithm that is used for some markets listed with LIFFE for example splits all orders for the same price. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of order execution algorithm.

Regardless of the type of order execution algorithm used each exchange and preferably provides similar types of information to subscribing devices and . Market information may include data that represents the inside market which is the lowest sell price best ask and the highest buy price best bid at a particular point in time. Market information may also include market depth. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and can also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words the exchange usually provides the total buy quantity and the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the exchange. For instance some exchanges provide market depth for all or most price levels while some provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all. Additionally the exchanges can offer other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and order fill information.

Gateways are devices such as a mainframe superminicomputer minicomputer workstation microcomputer that connect network to networks so that market information can be successfully passed between client devices and exchanges . Gateways preferably receive market information from the exchanges and and convert it to a format compatible with the protocols used by the client devices using conversion techniques known in the art. Also as known by those skilled in the art gateways may have one or more servers to support data feeds such as a price server for processing price information an order server for processing order information and a fill server for processing fill information. A trader at one of the client devices can subscribe to price information order information and fill information for a particular market hosted at the exchanges and . The gateways and also preferably receive transaction information such as orders order changes queries etc. from the client devices and and forward that information to corresponding exchanges and .

The client devices and are devices that provide an interface for traders to trade at one or more markets listed with one some or all of the exchanges and . Some examples of client devices include a personal computer laptop computer handheld computer and so forth. The client devices and according to one preferred embodiment include at least a processor and memory. The processor and memory both well known computer components are not shown in for sake of clarity. Preferably the processor has enough processing power to handle and process various types of market information. It should be understood that more market information is received and processed the more processing power is preferred. However any present day processor has enough capability to perform at least the most basic part of the present invention.

Memory may include a computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as a storage device. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory or random access memory RAM . Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

The client devices and receive market information from any of the exchanges and . According to the preferred embodiments market information is displayed to the trader s on the visual output device or display device of the client devices and . The output device can be any type of display. For example the display could be a CRT based video display an LCD based or a gas plasma based flat panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or some other display type. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of display.

Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to send orders to an exchange cancel orders in a market query an exchange and so on. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client devices and for example by typing into a keyboard inputting commands through a mouse or inputting commands or signals through some other input devices. Upon receiving one or more commands or signals the client devices and preferably generate transaction information. For instance a trader may click a mouse button to initiate an order to buy a tradeable object. Then transaction information would include an order to buy a particular quantity of the tradeable object at a particular price. There are many different types of messages and or order types that can be submitted all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated transaction information is sent from the client devices and to the host exchange for example over the networks and .

Also as illustrated in the trading application includes an annotation application that may enable a trader to activate and use an annotation interface. For example the annotation interface may allow a trader to input any desirable information into an annotation link the annotation to any desirable price or configure how and when the annotation should be dynamically updated or displayed in relation to a trading interface the embodiments of which will be described in greater detail below. The trading application and annotation application may share commonly used information that is received from one or more exchanges or other sources for example. Alternatively the annotation application may be a separate and independent application from the trading application . In such an embodiment the annotation application does not necessarily interact with the trading application however it may still share data with the trading application .

Even though illustrates the annotation interface being part of the client terminal the annotation application may alternatively be installed on a server or a gateway that communicates with the client terminal . In such an embodiment when a trader at the client terminal subscribes to annotation services the client terminal can access the annotation application over a computer network. Alternatively portions of the annotation application may be installed on the server and or gateway and some portions may be installed on the client terminal . Such an embodiment may turn out especially beneficial when a client terminal has little processing power or not enough storage power. Those skilled in the art will understand that other embodiments are possible as well.

A commercially available trading application that allows a user to trade in a system like the one shown in is X TRADER from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. X TRADER also provides an electronic trading interface referred to as MD Trader in which working orders and or bid and ask quantities are displayed in association with a static axis of prices. Portions of the X TRADER and the MD Trader style display are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth filed on Jun. 9 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 772 132 issued Aug. 3 2004 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth and Price Consolidation filed on Oct. 5 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 127 424 issued Oct. 24 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 entitled Trading Tools For Electronic Trading filed on Apr. 19 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 389 268 issued Jun. 17 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 376 417 entitled A System and Method for Trading and Displaying Market Information in an Electronic Trading Environment filed on Feb. 28 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 289 issued Jun. 5 2007 the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference. Further it should be understood that orders in the system illustrated in could also be placed using any other automatic trading applications as well. Additionally the preferred embodiments are not limited to any particular product that performs translation storage and display functions.

As mentioned earlier a client terminal consists of one or more computers or software applications that allow a trader to participate in the market being hosted at one or more electronic exchanges. More specifically the client terminal uses one or more trading applications to create specialized trading interfaces that enable a trader to enter and execute orders. As will be described in greater detail below an annotation application in conjunction with a trading application enables a trader to activate an annotation interface that provides means for a trader to record any market related or trader related information or define a set of predetermined conditions events that dynamically trigger generation of one or more annotations. Also a dynamic annotation may be created for one tradeable object upon detecting a predetermined trigger associated with another tradeable object. In one embodiment a dynamically created or user created annotation may be combined with an alert that may be activated every time one or more conditions associated with the annotation are detected. For example an alert may be played to a trader when a current market level reaches a predetermined price level associated with one or more annotations. It should be understood that an alert may take any format including audio and or text messages popup windows or one or more indicators that may be displayed to a trader via a trading interface.

An annotation entered by a trader may be linked to one or more price levels and may be displayed in relation to those price levels via a trading interface. In such an embodiment one or more prices are effectively flagged to correlate with a specific user configurable event associated with one or more past trading sessions a current trading session or any future trading sessions. For example a user configurable event may include a yesterday s maximum or minimum price level an average traded price range associated with one or more previous days or one or more price levels corresponding to maximum order quantities that have been traded during one or more previous trading days at specific price levels or a range of price levels.

It should be understood however that the annotations may be related to market trends determined by a trader by observing the market. For example a trader may enter annotations related to one or more market resistance points such as when the trader notices that the market bounces back and forth around some price level. As another example a trader may enter an annotation to define that the market often crosses a predetermined price level only by a specific number of ticks.

In addition to configuring annotations in relation to predetermined price levels a trader may also preset display rules defining when each annotation is displayed via a trading interface. For example an annotation may be configured so that it is only displayed to a trader when a current market reaches a number of ticks away from the price level corresponding to the annotation. Alternatively annotations may be displayed to a trader regardless of the market position and rather based on price levels that are viewable to a trader via a trading interface the embodiments of which will be described in greater detail below.

A trader could also define a number of trader related or market related conditions or events corresponding to the same or different tradeable objects that may automatically trigger creation of one or more annotations and or corresponding alerts. For example market movements associated with two or more tradeable objects may be interrelated such that a market change associated with one tradeable object often causes market changes in one or more other tradeable objects. In such an embodiment a trader can configure a number of conditions for one or more tradeable objects that may cause dynamic generation and display of an annotation in relation to a trading interface associated with another tradeable object. In one embodiment the conditions may include detecting a predetermined market movement detecting a new daily high low price or detecting a large quantity being traded at some price level associated with one or more tradeable objects. For example a trader may configure an annotation to be dynamically created in relation to a trading interface associated with a first tradeable object upon detecting a market associated with a second tradeable object reaching a price level breaking a yesterday s high.

It should be understood that when an annotation is displayed in relation to a trading interface associated with a first tradeable object based on detecting a predetermined event associated with a second tradeable object the annotation may be displayed in relation to any user configurable price associated with the first tradeable object. In one embodiment the annotation may be displayed in relation to the last traded price any inside market price the best bid or ask prices or a mid point between the best bid and ask prices associated with the first tradeable object at the time when the annotation is generated. Alternatively a trader may configure a scaling factor that may be used to correlate prices between the two tradeable objects. In such an embodiment the price level at which the annotation is displayed may be determined based on the last traded price of the second tradeable object at the time when a specific event has been detected and further based on the scaling factor correlating the prices of the two tradeable objects. It should be understood that the tradeable objects could be traded at the same or different exchanges and the tradeable object could be a user configurable synthetic tradeable object made up of two or more tradeable objects.

In addition to market specific events a trader could also define a number of annotations that are based on theoretical market position values. For example a trader could define one or more formulas that may be used to calculate various market related levels such as theoretical positions of inside market prices. It should be understood that such theoretical values could be calculated based on data related to any number of markets that a trader considers to be related to the specific market for which the theoretical values are calculated. Also annotations related to theoretical market data are preferably configured to expire after a predetermined period of time since the values for such annotations would be changing on periodical basis.

In addition to creating annotations a trader could also define a number of alerts to be played or displayed via a trading interface when one or more market related or trader related conditions are detected. For example in addition to displaying an annotation when one or more conditions are detected in relation to one or more tradeable objects a trader may configure an alert to be played when such conditions are detected. Such alerts could be activated using a number of trigger levels including an alert to be activated when an annotation is within the display view or right above or below the highest lowest price displayed via a trading interface. Also a trigger level may depend on a location of the annotation compared to the last traded price or any other user configurable price.

Also a trader may wish to be notified when he is approaching his limit on any parameters that control the trader s ability to trade. Such alerts may be based on a maximum order quantity that a trader is allowed to trade a maximum net position a trader s credit limit a trader s contract credit limit or a maximum number of trades that the trader may make during a trading session for example. However it should be understood that different triggering events related to the trader could also be used.

Trader configurable alerts could also be based on any user configurable formulas. For example a trader may define an alert to be activated upon determining a certain probability of some event happening. In one embodiment a trader could define a formula that may be used for determining a probability of an order getting filled. Such a formula may be based on a total buy sell quantity at an order price level a total buy sell order quantity at one or more prices in relation to the order price and or the estimated queue position of the trader s order for example. A trader could then define an alert to be activated when the probability of an order getting filled reaches some user configurable percentage such as 90 for example.

It should be understood that different formulas could also be used to define other events triggering one or more alerts. For example a trader may define an alert to be activated when a predetermined working order quantity is detected at one or more price levels. In one embodiment the activation of an alert may be limited to the embodiment where the predetermined order quantity stays at some price level for a preset time period or is detected at some price level more than once during a predetermined time period. Also a trader may wish to have an alert activated when the daily total traded volume associated with one or more tradeable object reaches a predetermined user configured level.

In addition to trader related alerts and market related alerts a trader could define time based alerts. Such alerts may be beneficial to a trader when some event that may possibly impact the market movement typically happens during a predetermined time period. For example a trader may wish to be alerted at a predetermined time before an unemployment number or interest rates are typically released. To do that a trader may configure an alert that may be activated at a predetermined time and deactivated at another user configurable time. It should be understood that time based alerts may have many different formats including sound alerts displaying one or more indicators in relation to a trading interface or flashing changing colors of trader s orders being displayed via the trading interface.

Additionally as mentioned earlier activation of an alert may dynamically trigger creation of an annotation having a description of the detected event. The created annotation may then be automatically linked to a predetermined price level and could be displayed in relation to that price level on a trading interface. Also the alert may be configured so that it is automatically triggered every time a higher order quantity is detected at that price level which may in turn dynamically update the annotation being displayed in relation to the price level. It should be understood that actions taken in relation to alerts and annotations may depend on user configuration. For example rather than updating the annotation every time a higher order quantity is detected the annotation may be updated only when the quantity increases by a predetermined amount.

At step a trading interface displays a market information region including a plurality of locations corresponding to prices an embodiment of which will be described in relation to . At step a trading application and or an annotation application detects an input to flag at least one price level. It should be understood that the input may take many different formats including detecting a predetermined key combination input first and then detecting a selection of a predetermined location on the trading interface corresponding to the price level to be flagged. Alternatively a trader may flag a price level via an annotation interface an example of which will be described in reference to .

Once a trader selects a price level at step a trader may input an annotation to record an occurrence of an event. For example in an embodiment where a trader flags a price level via a trading interface the trading interface may dynamically display a graphical interface such as a popup window that a trader may use to input a desired annotation. Alternatively in an embodiment where an annotation interface is used a trader may input annotations in relation to price levels being displayed via the annotation interface. At step once the trader inputs the annotation the trading application and or the annotation application link the annotation to the predetermined price level and the annotation may be displayed in relation to one or more locations corresponding to the flagged price levels the embodiments of which will be described in reference to . Also as mentioned in earlier paragraphs the process described in may be automated whereas when a preset event is detected the annotation application may automatically generate an annotation and then link to some price level based on any user configured conditions.

The annotation interface allows a trader to enter trader related market related or other types of annotations in relation to specific prices corresponding to a tradeable object being traded by the trader. The annotations corresponding to specific prices may then be displayed in relation to specific prices via a trading screen display such as an MD Trader style display which displays information such as orders to buy or orders to sell in association with price levels arranged along a common static axis or scale of prices the embodiments of which will be further described in relation to subsequent figures. It should be understood that in a preferred embodiment the static axis of prices displays prices however alternatively prices do not need to be displayed.

The annotation interface includes a user entry area and a number of subject matter icons . The user entry area may be provided with a predetermined document entry format having one or more user entry locations. For example the user entry area may take a tabular format having one or more user entry locations. As illustrated in the user entry area includes a price column and an annotation alert column. The price column includes a number of prices corresponding to a tradeable object for which a trader may wish to create the annotations. Alternatively for automatically generated annotations rather than having specific price levels the price column may include any user configurable formulas based on which the annotation application may determine a price level at which to display an annotation. In such an embodiment the price column may define a command to display the annotation at the last traded price at the time when the automatic annotation is detected.

In one embodiment a trading interface may include a graphical selection input that enables a trader to activate the annotation interface . When a trader activates the annotation interface via the trading interface the prices corresponding to the activated tradeable object may be automatically mapped to the annotation interface . Alternatively the annotation interface may enable a trader to select a tradeable object and the annotation interface may then access prices corresponding to the selected tradeable object.

Once the annotation interface displays prices corresponding to a tradeable object the trader may input an annotation to be displayed in relation to one or more prices or may flag the prices with some indicators or alerts. The trader may select a specific category of annotations or other actions by selecting one of category icons including an alert category a trader related annotation category a dynamic change category a market related annotation category or a link category . For example once a trader selects the trader related icon or the market related icon the trader may then enter any trader related or market related annotations to be displayed in relation to one or more prices respectively. By dividing the trader related and market related annotations into two different categories the annotations associated with each category may be automatically displayed using different annotation patterns or colors selected by a trader.

Also as mentioned earlier a trader may configure dynamic annotations that may be automatically updated every time one or more user configurable conditions are detected. To create such annotations a trader may select a dynamic annotation icon . The selection of the icon may cause the annotation application to display an interface enabling a trader to configure dynamic annotations and to define when the automatic update should be performed. For example a trader may configure a dynamic annotation to monitor how much time a market spends at some price range during a predetermined time period such as during the last hour or any other user configurable time period. Alternatively a dynamic annotation may be associated with a price range associated with the highest trading activity during a predetermined time period. It should be understood that the process of updating dynamic indicators and determining data related to the dynamic indicators may be performed by the annotation application the trading application and or any other external source based on market data being received from one or more exchanges.

Each dynamic annotation may be also associated with one or more expiration conditions. An expiration condition may include a finite time period or may be based on a market position compared to an annotation. For example an expiration time for a dynamic annotation may be based on a tick distance between the price associated with the annotation and the last traded price or the inside market level. Also for example a dynamic annotation may be set to expire when a price level associated with the annotation falls outside the price range being displayed via the trading interface.

As mentioned earlier a trader may wish to be notified of market conditions related to tradeable objects that the trader is not trading at the moment. For example a trader may realize that there is a correlation between two or more markets and may wish to be notified of certain market conditions related to a first tradeable object or a number of tradeable objects while he is trading a second tradeable object. According to one example embodiment a trader may use a link annotation icon to link a dynamic annotation associated with one or more tradeable object to a trading interface associated with another tradeable object. For example a trader may create an annotation to be activated in relation to a trading interface of a first tradeable object when a certain market related event occurs in association with a second tradeable object. For example a trader may wish to know when the market of the second tradeable object becomes highly volatile when a new daily high is reached when a traded volume exceeds a specific user configured volume or when any other conditions occur.

When one or more user configurable events are detected in relation to one or more tradeable objects annotations corresponding to the detected events may be displayed in relation to one or more prices associated with a linked tradeable object. For example an annotation could be displayed in relation to the last traded price of the linked tradeable object so that a trader can easily view the movement of the market in relation to the annotation. Also the annotation may include some text corresponding to the detected event so that a trader can easily distinguish the annotations. Alternatively as mentioned earlier price scaling can be used to determine a relative price level of the first tradeable object based on the price level when the event associated with the second tradeable object has been detected.

Also as illustrated in a trader may configure a number of alerts by first selecting the alert icon and then defining one or more alerts. For example the alert icon when selected may activate another interface defining all annotations to be displayed in relation to a trading interface. Such implementation may allow a trader to flag the existing annotations with alerts. For example when an annotation is created for a price level corresponding to a yesterday s high a trader may wish to create an alert for that price level and the alert may get activated when the market corresponding to a current trading session reaches the yesterday s high price. In one embodiment the alert may cause the annotation to start flashing or change colors. It should be understood however that the alert may take any user configurable format and could take a format of an audio alert. Also it should be understood that the current market position may be determined based on the last traded price the highest bid price the lowest ask price a mid point between the inside market prices or any other user configurable prices.

In another embodiment a trader could create alerts that are independent of any annotations. For example alerts may be created to notify a trader of a possibility of a predetermined event happening such as an alert notifying a trader when the probability of an order getting filled reaches a predetermined percentage level. Alternatively an alert may be based on any user related parameters that control the user s trading such as a trader s available credit reaching a predetermined level a trader completing a predetermined number of trades or a trader reaching a predetermined net position. For example a trader could configure an alert to be activated when the trader is approaching his credit limit so that the trader will know ahead of time that his available credit has decreased to a predetermined low level.

Once a trader configures annotations and or alerts for a tradeable object the trader may view all configured annotations and alerts in relation to their prices by selecting View All icon that may then cause a display of an interface window such as the one illustrated in . The interface displays three price levels corresponding to one or more annotations and or alerts. For example the price level of 98 corresponds to an annotation of a Yesterday s High and also to an alarm that will be activated when the current market reaches the Yesterday s High. Then the price level of 92 corresponds to an annotation of a Two Day Avg. and a dynamic annotation that tracks a today s average price and updates such a price every hour. The price level of 87 is associated with two annotations a Yesterday s Low and a 10 000 Max where the second annotation is updated every time a new maximum order quantity is detected. In one embodiment the 10 000 Max may correspond to the maximum number of contracts that have been traded during a current trading day or during any number of previous trading days. displays three price levels however it should be understood that more price levels could be displayed if more annotations are created for different price levels. Also it should be understood that different categories of available annotations could be created as well.

Once the trader configures desired annotations the annotations may be displayed in relation to a trading interface. is a block diagram illustrating one example trading interface that may be used to display annotations according to preferred embodiments. The trading interface displays market information via a market information region such as current Bid Quantities and Ask Quantities as well as trader related information such as trader s Working Orders along a price axis . The price axis and variations thereof are described in the above incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth now U.S. Pat. No. 6 772 132 issued Aug. 3 2004 and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 376 417 entitled A System and Method for Trading and Displaying Market Information in an Electronic Trading Environment now U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 289 issued Jun. 5 2007.

In general price values being displayed along the price axis are statically displayed such that the price levels do not normally change positions unless a recentering repositioning or other user initiated command is received. The market information display regions such as the bid and ask display regions are associated with a plurality of locations arranged such that each location corresponds to a predetermined price level. Also the indicators displayed in such regions such as indicators in the bid quantity display region and the ask quantity display region are dynamic. For example the indicators may move up and down along the price axis to reflect the inside market and or market depth for a given tradeable object. Then for example when the inside market moves up in price quantities populate appropriate price levels which using the preferred display show that the inside market has just moved up. Similarly when the inside market moves down in price quantities populate the appropriate price levels which using the display show that the inside market has just moved down. Additionally quantity values displayed in the bid and ask regions are dynamic in the sense that the actual quantity itself may go up or down in magnitude at a particular price level. Regardless of whether the price axis is straight curved horizontal vertical or oriented at any angle the display and trading methods of the present embodiments preferably allow the trader to better and quicker visualize market movement.

Once a trader configures desired annotations for a tradeable object the trading interface may display the annotations in relation to one or more price levels. The annotations shown in correspond to the annotations that have been described in reference to . More specifically an annotation corresponding to a Yesterday s High is displayed in relation to the price level of 98 an annotation corresponding to a Two Day Average is displayed in relation to the price level of 92 and an annotation corresponding to a Yesterday s Low and a 10 000 Max is displayed in relation to the price level of 87.

In addition to the annotations related to the tradeable object that can be traded via the trading interface the annotations corresponding to different tradeable objects could be linked to and displayed in relation to the trading interface . Thus as shown in the tradeable object associated with the trading interface is linked to an event corresponding to breaking a yesterday s high associated with a tradeable object Y. Once such an event is detected the trading interface may display an annotation notifying a trader that the event has been detected.

It should be understood that illustrates only one example of many possible annotation formats. It should be understood that a trader could create his own abbreviations of the annotations. Alternatively a trader could develop a set of indicators and each indicator could correspond to a predetermined annotation type. Also a trader could define a number of rules that may be used to control how long each annotation is displayed via a trading interface. For example different annotation types may be associated with different expiration time periods.

Also as shown in the trading interface displays a limited number of price levels and a trader may for example reposition the price axis so that the price axis is centered around the inside market or any other item of interest. After such repositioning some price levels with the corresponding annotations may be positioned outside the price display region. A trader however may still wish to view a current market s position in relation to any significant annotations that are outside of the viewable prices. In one embodiment the annotations corresponding to price levels outside the viewable price area may be consolidated and displayed in relation to another scale like column. is a block diagram illustrating a trading interface that may be used to display annotations according to one example embodiment. The trading interface displays the annotations that have been described in reference to in relation to the repositioned price axis associated with the trading interface . More specifically the annotations including the New High on Y Two Day Avg. YL 10 000 Max are displayed as annotations and respectively.

As mentioned earlier some price levels associated with annotations may be outside the viewable area once the price axis is repositioned. Referring back to the example in the price level of 98 corresponding to the annotation of Yesterday s High is outside the viewable area. According to one example embodiment such annotations may be displayed in relation to one or more graphical interfaces corresponding to prices outside the viewable area. displays interfaces and that may be used to display annotations outside the viewable area.

The interfaces and are displayed in relation to the highest and lowest viewable price levels respectively. However it should be understood that the interfaces and could be positioned at any location on the trading interface. For example a trader may be able to drag the interfaces and to any desirable locations. Since the annotation corresponding to the Yesterday s High is associated with the price level of 98 that is positioned outside the viewable area it is displayed in relation to the interface . Also as illustrated in the interface displays two additional annotations a Week s Low and a Month s Low that have not been described in relation to the interface described in reference to since the price levels corresponding to these annotations were outside the viewable area. In one embodiment the positions of annotations on the interfaces and may relate to price levels corresponding to each annotation. For example referring to the interface the trader may quickly determine that the price level corresponding to the annotation is lower than the price level associated with the annotation . Also it should be understood that each annotation displayed in relation to the interfaces and may be displayed in combination with a corresponding price level such as Y H 98 or in any other user configurable format.

Also in an alternative embodiment mentioned earlier rather than having a separate interface for inputting annotations such as the one described in reference to a trader could input annotations in relation to specific price levels directly via the trading interface or . For example as mentioned in reference to the flowchart in a trader could first flag a price and then enter a predetermined user selection input such as a predetermined key combination input to activate a popup window that may be used by the trader to input an annotation in relation to the flagged price level. It should be understood that rather than flagging a price level first a trader could activate an annotation popup window first and then drag it to a desired price level.

It should be understood that the annotations may be displayed in relation to or may overlay other market related data such as any charts or other trader related graphical interfaces. In such an embodiment the annotations may be transparent so that a trader can view both the annotations as well as an underlying charts displayed in relation to the price axis.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications. For example the present invention is not limited to the annotations or annotation inputs described hereinbefore and those skilled in the art will understand that different annotations as well as annotation input methods could also be used.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for price based annotations in an electronic trading environment may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

