---

title: Client connection establishment over fibre channel using a block device access model
abstract: A system and method executed by a client for connecting with a server over a Fiber Channel (FC) network. The method including creating a first Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) request to establish a virtual connection, sending the first SCSI request to the server over the FC network, receiving, from the server over the FC network, a first SCSI response responsive to the first SCSI request, wherein the first SCSI response includes an identifier for the virtual connection, creating a second SCSI request, including the virtual connection identifier and a descriptor for a server process at the server, and sending the second SCSI request to the server over the FC network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473590&OS=09473590&RS=09473590
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09473590
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 652 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 668 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 816 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 823 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 845 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application a patent application Ser. No. 13 725 850 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 726 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 737 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 748 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 765 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 854 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 860 filed Dec. 21 2012. This application is related to a co pending application of patent application Ser. No. 13 725 819 filed Dec. 21 2012.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to data storage systems. More particularly embodiments of the invention relate to data communicated across a Fibre Channel network.

In modern computer systems a file system stores and organizes computer files to enable a user to efficiently locate and access requested files. File systems can utilize a storage device such as a hard disk drive to provide local access or provide access to data stored on a remote file server. A file system can also be characterized as a set of abstract data types that are implemented for the storage hierarchical organization manipulation navigation access and retrieval of data. The file system software is responsible for organizing files and directories.

Many companies and individuals with large amounts of stored data employ a file system as a data storage system. These data storage systems can be located local to the data to be backed up or at a remote site. The data storage systems can be managed by the entity controlling the data storage devices or a data storage service company. Data can be added to the storage system at any frequency and at any amount.

Data storage systems may offer storage for backup and disaster recovery. Transfer to remote storage may require the transfer of data over a network. One network that allows transferring data across a data storage system is a Fibre Channel network. Fibre Channel allows a server and or a storage unit to be located at a substantial distance from other components of the data storage system if optical fiber is used as the physical medium. However optical fiber is not required for shorter distances as a Fibre Channel network may also be implemented using coaxial cable and ordinary telephone twisted pair.

Several embodiments of the invention with reference to the appended drawings are now explained. The following description and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

Reference in the Specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in conjunction with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the Specification do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

To efficiently transfer data within a data storage system a request in a data storage system can be sent using a Small Computer System Interface SCSI request. SCSI requests traditionally specify a logical block address to be written to or to be read. These requests may be sent over a Fibre Channel network by packaging the SCSI requests as Fibre Channel frames and unpackaging the SCSI request at the recipient. Responses to SCSI requests may be likewise received over the Fibre Channel network.

A client can be any type of client such as a personal computer e.g. desktops laptops and tablets a workstation a handheld device a Web enabled appliance a gaming device a media player or a mobile phone e.g. Smartphone or any computing system operable to communicate over a Fibre Channel network.

SCSI requests are sent from by clients and received at the server across the FC network . FC network can be any type of network using Fibre Channel. In one embodiment the FC network is a storage area network SAN . The FC network can feature any suitable network topology. Thus the FC network can be a point to point network. Alternatively the FC network can be an arbitrated loop network. In another embodiment the FC network can be a switched fabric network. In such embodiments the FC network can include one or more Fibre Channel switches not shown and visibility of the server and or clients can be controlled with Fibre Channel zoning.

The server can include any type of server or cluster of servers. For example the server can be a storage server used for any of various different purposes such as to provide multiple users with access to shared data and or to back up mission critical data. The server can be for example a file server e.g. an appliance used to provide NAS capability a block based storage server e.g. used to provide SAN capability a unified storage device e.g. one which combines NAS and SAN capabilities a nearline storage device a direct attached storage DAS device a tape or virtual tap backup device or essentially any other type of data storage device or a combination thereof. The server can have a distributed architecture or all of its components can be integrated into a single unit. The server can be implemented as part of an archive and or backup system such as a deduplication storage system available from EMC Corporation of Hopkinton Mass. Additionally the server can be communicatively coupled with an auxiliary storage system not shown similar to the server . The auxiliary storage system can duplicate the functionality of the server . Alternatively or in addition to the server the auxiliary storage system can provide some additional data warehousing or data manipulation.

As shown in the server is coupled with one or more storage units . A storage unit can be implemented locally e.g. single node operating environment or remotely e.g. multi node operating environment via an interconnect which can be a bus or a network. In one embodiment one of the storage units operates as an active storage unit to receive and store external or fresh data while the other storage unit operates to periodically archive data from the active storage unit according to an archiving policy or scheme. A storage unit can be for example conventional magnetic disks optical disks such as CD ROM or DVD based storage magnetic tape storage magneto optical MO storage media solid state disks flash memory based devices or any other type of non volatile storage devices suitable for storing large volumes of data. The storage units can also be combinations of such storage devices. In some embodiments the storage units can be organized into one or more volumes of Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks RAID .

A simple embodiment of a client is illustrated at . The client can be or can include one of clients of . In one embodiment the client includes but is not limited to several components including a user interface main memory a client host bus adapter storage and a processor . These components can be communicatively coupled via a bus . The bus can be any communication subsystem or medium adapted to transfer data within the client . The bus can be a plurality of computer buses and include additional circuitry to transfer data.

The user interface can allow a user to interact with the client such as a through a graphical user interface GUI provided by a module or through a command line interface. To realize this the client can include or can be communicatively coupled with one or more hardware devices not shown such as a display and one or more devices suitable for user input e.g. a keyboard a mouse or touch screen .

Storage can be implemented locally e.g. single node operating environment via bus as shown or remotely e.g. multi node operating environment via a network not shown . Storage can be for example conventional magnetic disks optical disks such as CD ROM or DVD based storage magnetic tape storage magneto optical MO storage media solid state disks flash memory based devices or any other type of storage devices suitable for storing data. In some embodiments storage includes registers caches or other similar temporary memory components. Though illustrated as a single device storage can be a combination of several devices such as volatile and non volatile memory devices.

The processor can be any processor suitable to execute instructions of the components stored in main memory . Accordingly the processor can be for example a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a network processor or other similar processing device. In some embodiments the processor includes a plurality of processors such as a dedicated processor e.g. a graphics processing unit a network processor a front end processor or any processor suitable to execute operations of the client connected with a server by a Fibre Channel network.

Main memory may be coupled with the processor . In some embodiments main memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program and application modules and other data for the client . Main memory can include but is not limited to a client operating system OS Small Computer System Interface SCSI service a data optimization module a data storage module and a Fibre Channel FC transport adapter .

The client OS SCSI service is operable to discover SCSI devices send SCSI requests and receive SCSI responses across a FC network using a client host bus adapter HBA . The client OS SCSI service can include any SCSI interface such as the Windows SCSI Pass Through Interface SPTI or the Linux SCSI subsystem. In some embodiments the client OS SCSI service is operable to discover SCSI devices as one or more logical unit numbers LUN advertised by a server. The client OS SCSI service can discover a LUN when the client OS SCSI service is loaded or at any point thereafter e.g. the client OS SCSI service can be configured to discover the available LUNs at boot time to periodically discover new or removed LUNs or to discover available LUNs in the event of an error in communicating with a previously discovered LUN. The client OS SCSI service can create one or more SCSI device entries such as in a device directory for each discovered LUN. In some embodiments multiple SCSI device entries are created at the client for a single LUN to indicate that a client can access that LUN over multiple paths e.g. one LUN may be advertised at multiple ports of the server host bus adapter at the server and visible through multiple ports of the client host bus adapter . These client side SCSI device entries can be accessed by other components of the client such as the FC transport adapter . In some embodiments the client can support multi pathing and therefore a single SCSI device entry is created.

The client OS SCSI service can scan the available SCSI devices by sending a SCSI inquiry request for each LUN. The client OS SCSI service can receive a SCSI inquiry response that includes inquiry information associated with the advertised LUN. In some embodiments the inquiry information includes an indication that this LUN can receive SCSI requests from the client over a FC network such as a field of the SCSI inquiry response that contains a specific value. A LUN having such an indication represents a transport path between the client and a server over the FC network e.g. a connection from the client host bus adapter to a server host bus adapter . The inquiry information can also include for example a vendor or provider of the server and a SCSI device type. The client OS SCSI service can then store the inquiry information e.g. at a cache and or at storage such that the stored inquiry information is accessible by other components of the client .

In one embodiment the client OS SCSI service includes other layers so that SCSI requests and responses can be sent and received over a FC network. The client OS SCSI service can include one or more drivers such as a driver for the client HBA to present devices advertised over the FC network as standard SCSI devices which can then be discovered as such. Thus the one or more drivers can package SCSI requests as FC frames and unpackage SCSI responses from FC frames and route the SCSI responses accordingly such as by implementing Fibre Channel Protocol.

All or part of the client OS SCSI service can be included in an operating system not shown that can be operable to initiate the execution of the instructions provided by components interact with the user at the user interface e.g. by providing a graphical user interface or command line interface and receiving user input and or manage hardware not shown . The operating system may be adapted to perform other operations across the components of the client including threading resource management data storage control and other similar functionality.

The data optimization module can identify data e.g. data at storage that is to be sent to a server and communicate with the FC transport adapter to send or receive data. In one embodiment the data optimization module provides an application programming interface API a dynamic link library DLL or other communicative resource that manages or otherwise handles data send and receive operations to be communicated to the server. The data optimization module can be operable to optimize the communication speed between the client and the server such as by providing data compression and deduplication operations. The data optimization module can identify new or modified data at the client e.g. data at storage that is to be backed up and or archived at the server. Additionally the data optimization module can identify data for the client at the server e.g. data at a storage unit of server .

In some embodiments data send and receive requests are provided to the data optimization module from the data storage module at the client . Accordingly the data optimization module can communicate with the data storage module in response to the data send and receive requests. The data storage module can be for example an application or application suite for backing up and or archiving data such as an enterprise level backup and recovery suite. The data storage module can be configured to specify that data send and receive operations are to be sent to a server over a FC network such as by having a server identifier or other indicator e.g. a stored value a value received as user input etc. indicating that data is to be transmitted over the FC network. In some embodiments some or all of the functionality provided by the data optimization module is combined with the data storage module .

To facilitate communication between the data optimization module and a server the data optimization module can provide a call message to the FC transport adapter . The data optimization module can provide a call message to the FC transport adapter for a variety of reasons such as in response to user input that requires server functionality. In one embodiment a call message is provided to the FC transport adapter in response to or in anticipation of a data send and receive requests from the data storage module . However the data optimization module can provide a call message to the FC transport adapter for a variety of reasons and the call message is not limited to backup and or storage applications. A call message can be for example a message requesting a subroutine or procedure to execute at a server process e.g. a process of server such as a remote procedure call RPC message. Additionally a call message can include data e.g. data from storage data from a module or other data that is to be sent to the server over the FC network. Thus the call message can be of any size e.g. greater than a terabyte . A call message can be for example a message to read data from or write data to the server or a message to retrieve information about data stored at the server. The data optimization module can include data in the call message by for example marshaling the data. Correspondingly the data optimization module can get data in a reply message by unmarshaling. In some embodiments the data optimization module concatenates a plurality of data send and or receive requests into one call message. For example one call message can include RPC requests to write data and read data.

The data optimization module can provide a call message to the FC transport adapter to be sent to a server over the FC network. To identify a server process for which the message is intended the data optimization module can provide a process descriptor for the intended server process. The data optimization module can have these process descriptors stored or can provide a call message to the FC transport adapter for a server that is to get a process descriptor for a server process. A call message to get a process descriptor can be for example a call message intended for a port mapper process at the server. The FC transport adapter can also be provided a server identifier for the server. The data optimization module can provide the server identifier such as from a stored value or from the data storage module .

The FC transport adapter is operable to receive a call message provided by the data optimization module and adapt the call message for communication to a server over a FC network. The FC transport adapter can adapt the call message to a SCSI request a call SCSI request. In one embodiment the FC transport adapter creates a SCSI write request that can include the call message as the request s payload. The FC transport adapter can then identify a connection from the client to the server that is suitable to send the call SCSI request across. To retrieve a reply message to a call message e.g. a RPC reply message from the server the FC transport adapter can create another SCSI request a reply SCSI request. A reply SCSI request can be a SCSI read request which the FC transport adapter then sends to the server over the FC network. The FC transport adapter can create the reply SCSI request in response to a request from the data optimization module .

In some embodiments a call SCSI request includes a plurality of messages. The FC transport adapter can receive a plurality of call messages from the data optimization module such as from a staging area and or storage . Accordingly a call SCSI request can be created that includes the plurality of call messages. Similarly a reply SCSI response can include a plurality of reply messages. In one embodiment a call message can be segmented before communication. Consequently adapting a call message to be sent to the server over the FC network can require a plurality of call SCSI requests such that each call SCSI request contains a segment of the call message. Likewise a reply message can be received as a segment of a whole and the FC transport adapter can provide the reply message to the data optimization module as it becomes available.

Accordingly it is to be understood that call messages and reply messages are not necessarily discrete data requests and responses e.g. RPC requests and responses having a one to one relationship with SCSI requests and responses and sequentially exchanged. For example the FC transport adapter can create a plurality call SCSI requests having a plurality of call messages segmentally distributed across the call SCSI requests and send the plurality of call SCSI requests to the server. The FC transport adapter can create one or more reply SCSI requests and in response receive one or more reply SCSI responses having a plurality of reply messages segmentally distributed across the one or more reply SCSI responses. Therefore references to a call message or a reply message adapted to a respective SCSI request or SCSI response e.g. included in a payload of a SCSI request or response can denote the message data contained in that particular SCSI request or response and not necessarily a single or complete RPC request or response.

The FC transport adapter can identify a connection to a server over a FC network using the one or more LUNs discovered by the client OS SCSI service . In one embodiment the FC transport adapter is operable to examine inquiry information for one or more discovered LUNs of one or more SCSI devices advertised by the server. Where the client OS SCSI service has not stored inquiry information for a SCSI device entry the FC transport adapter can be operable to send a SCSI inquiry request for the LUN and receive the inquiry information for that LUN as a response. The FC transport adapter can determine using the inquiry information which LUN s advertised by the server can receive SCSI requests over the FC network. In one embodiment the FC transport adapter makes this determination by examining one or more specific fields of the inquiry information such as the vendor identification device identification and or device type and verifying that those specific fields match predetermined values for those fields. The FC transport adapter can establish a virtual connection with the server using a LUN indicating that it can receive SCSI requests from the client via the FC network.

The FC transport adapter can establish a connection for one or more messages as a virtual connection. In some embodiments a virtual connection abstracts the connection from the client to a server to a connection for one or more messages that are to be communicated between the data optimization module and a server process at the server. In some embodiments the FC transport adapter is operable to receive a process descriptor provided by the data optimization module and accordingly establish the virtual connection using the process descriptor. The FC transport adapter can associate a virtual connection with the data optimization module . In some embodiments a virtual connection is associated with the data optimization module by for example mapping the virtual connection to the data optimization module .

A virtual connection can be identified by a virtual connection identifier such as a value. The virtual connection identifier can be part of a tuple to guarantee the virtual connection is identifiably unique across space and time for example the tuple can include a generation number and or a verifier value generated by the server so that virtual connection identifier can be recycled. The virtual connection identifier is included in most SCSI requests and SCSI responses for the virtual connection. For example a SCSI request can include the virtual connection identifier in the logical block address LBA field of the SCSI request s command descriptor block CDB . For some SCSI requests additional parameters e.g. a virtual connection tuple and or a sequence number can be included in a header added to SCSI request s payload. For call SCSI requests the call message can be included in the SCSI request s payload. Other SCSI requests such as a SCSI read request to retrieve a reply message may only include a portion of the virtual connection tuple e.g. the low order four bits of a tuple value for the virtual connection in the LBA field of the SCSI request s CDB. A reply SCSI response received from the server can include the virtual connection identifier and the reply message in the response s payload. In some embodiments a reply SCSI request is validated at the server and the reply SCSI response is validated at the client .

The FC transport adapter is also operable to track the sent call and reply SCSI requests using counters or other values. In one embodiment a call sequence number is incremented for each call SCSI request and a reply sequence number is incremented for each reply SCSI request. Each sequence number is incremented where a SCSI response is received for the SCSI request that does not indicate the SCSI request failed e.g. aborted at the server or failed during the communication of the SCSI request over the FC network . Thus the call sequence number is incremented even where the server only accepts a portion or none of the call message e.g. due to insufficient memory at the server . Similarly the reply sequence number is incremented even where a reply SCSI response includes an incomplete reply message or indicates that no reply message is available at the server. The call and reply sequence numbers can be included in the respective call and reply SCSI requests. However some SCSI requests e.g. reply SCSI requests may only include a bit segment of the sequence number. To acknowledge to the server that a reply SCSI response has been received by the FC transport adapter the FC transport adapter can include in a call SCSI request the reply sequence number of the last reply SCSI request for which a reply SCSI response was received.

In one embodiment some SCSI responses received from the server include the sequence number. For example reply SCSI responses include the sequence number in a payload of the reply SCSI response. However the server does not increment the sequence numbers included in the SCSI responses. For reply SCSI responses the FC transport adapter can validate a reply SCSI response by comparing the sequence number included in the reply SCSI response to the actual sequence number for the reply SCSI request. In instances in which the sequence numbers do not match the FC transport adapter closes the virtual connection and or discards the reply message.

The FC transport adapter can retry failed or aborted SCSI requests without incrementing the sequence number. For example the FC transport adapter can retry a SCSI request where the FC transport adapter receives an indication that the SCSI request failed or where a timeout for the SCSI response expires. The FC transport adapter can use the same sequence number for a subsequent SCSI request that recreates the failed SCSI request to ensure that the client s sequence number matches the server s expected sequence number. The FC transport adapter then transmits the recreated SCSI request to the server over the FC network.

The FC transport adapter can additionally identify the transport path for a call SCSI request or a reply SCSI request. The transport path is a path over the FC network between the client and the server such as a connection between the client host bus adapter and the server host bus adapter . In some embodiments the transport path includes a physical component and a logical component. The physical component includes the physical path between the client HBA and a server HBA such as the server HBA . The physical path can include for example respective World Wide Names for the client HBA and the server HBA such as a World Wide Port Name WWPN for a port of the client HBA of the client and the WWPN for a port of the HBA of the server . In one embodiment World Wide Node Names WWNN can be included. The logical component can include a LUN or other identifier for a SCSI device advertised by the server.

In one embodiment the transport path is identified by issuing a SCSI request for one of the SCSI device entries and the SCSI response can include the transport path in its payload. The FC transport adapter can use any suitable SCSI device entry as the transport path. In some embodiments the FC transport adapter identifies the transport path in response to a SCSI response from the server. The FC transport adapter can create a SCSI request to be sent over a FC network and provide the transport path to the client OS SCSI service which will then use that transport path to the server. For example all SCSI requests issued for one SCSI device entry are sent by the client OS SCSI service to the same LUN advertised at the same port of one server host bus adapter.

The client host bus adapter is operable to perform the physical transmission of the SCSI requests and SCSI responses between the client and a server HBA of a server e.g. the server host bus adapter of the server . One or both of the HBAs can be Fibre Channel interface cards. Each HBA has a World Wide Name WWN for the respective HBA a node WWN WWNN which is shared by all ports on a respective HBA or and a port WWN WWPN which is unique to each port of a respective HBA or . As described above the FC transport adapter can provide the transport path to the client OS SCSI service . Accordingly the client OS SCSI service uses the client HBA to send a SCSI request over the FC network using the provided transport path or the physical component therein . Note that although only one client HBA is illustrated the client can have more than one client HBA. Furthermore the client HBA can have more than one port either physical or virtual . Multiple client HBAs and or multiple ports of the same client HBA can be connected with multiple ports either physical or virtual of one or more server HBAs e.g. server HBA at the server.

Turning now to a simple embodiment of a server is shown. The server can be or can include the server of and can be coupled with one or more local or remote storage units e.g. the storage units . The server includes but is not limited to several components including main memory a processor and a server host bus adapter . These components may be communicatively coupled through a bus . The bus can be any subsystem adapted to transfer data within the server . The bus can be a plurality of computer buses and include additional circuitry to transfer data.

The server host bus adapter is operable to receive the physical transmission of SCSI requests over the FC network from a client. Though only one server HBA is illustrated a server can have more than one server HBA. Furthermore the server HBA can have more than one port either physical or virtual . Multiple server HBAs and or multiple ports of the same server HBA can be connected with multiple ports either physical or virtual of one or more client HBAs at a client.

The processor can be any processor suitable to execute instructions of the components stored in main memory . Accordingly the processor can be for example a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor or other similar processor. In some embodiments the processor includes a plurality of processors such as a dedicated processor e.g. a graphics processing unit a network processor or any processor suitable to execute operations of the server connected with a client by a Fibre Channel network.

Main memory may be coupled to the processor . In some embodiments main memory provides storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the server . Main memory can include but is not limited to one or more processes a server Fibre Channel FC adapter and a server OS SCSI service .

The server OS SCSI service can include but is not limited to components operable to handle SCSI requests and responses using the server HBA such as the SCSI layers e.g. SCSI interconnect layer SCSI transport layer other SCSI layers and interrelated elements to appropriately route received SCSI requests and send SCSI responses for a client over a FC network.

In one embodiment the server OS SCSI service is operable to manage the fundamental SCSI over Fibre Channel configuration at the server . The server OS SCSI service can provide hardware management of the server HBA and the transport path between a client and the server HBA and can therefore include one or more drivers e.g. a target mode driver to provide a data path between the client and other SCSI layers of the server OS SCSI service and or a virtual host bus driver to route SCSI requests from the server OS SCSI service to the server FC adapter . One such driver can be for the server HBA so that SCSI devices can be advertised over a FC network. This driver can package SCSI responses as FC frames and unpackage SCSI requests from FC frames and route the SCSI requests accordingly such as by implementing Fibre Channel Protocol. Additionally the server OS SCSI service can provide logical management such as mapping advertised LUNs managing the namespace of one or more LUNs and routing SCSI requests.

In one embodiment the server OS SCSI service is operable to receive SCSI requests and provide those SCSI requests to the server FC adapter . Additionally the server OS SCSI service is operable to receive SCSI responses from the server FC adapter and send the SCSI responses to a client over a FC network in response to a SCSI request from the client. The server OS SCSI service can also implement some SCSI functionality such as sending a SCSI response to a SCSI report LUNs request.

In one embodiment the server OS SCSI service advertises one or more LUNs to a client over a FC network. A LUN can be advertised at one or more ports of the server HBA and or at other HBAs not shown . A LUN can be mapped to a SCSI device created by the server FC adapter . Accordingly SCSI requests to such a LUN can be routed to the server FC adapter . The server FC adapter can specify the advertisement of LUNs by the server OS SCSI service such as by specifying a client to which the LUN is to be advertised or specifying a port of the server HBA .

All or part of the server OS SCSI service can be included in an operating system not shown that is operable to initiate the execution of the instructions provided by components and or manage hardware not shown . The operating system may be adapted to perform other operations across the components of the server including threading resource management data storage control and other similar functionality.

With respect to the processes a process can be for example an instance of a program at the server such as a set of machine readable instructions that are executed by the processor . A process can be a file system process e.g. a read write process for data stored at a storage unit . Multiple processes can run concurrently at the server . For example a file system may have different processes . Additionally multiple processes can accommodate multiple clients that are concurrently connected with the server .

Preferably each process has a descriptor associated with it at the server . In one embodiment the descriptor is a port number and a port for a process can be maintained by a port map. Additionally a process e.g. the process can identify other processes e.g. the other process such as by providing a port map. A process can service call messages from the server FC adapter that originated at a client such as by unmarshaling the call message marshaling data in response to the call message e.g. a reply message and or writing data from the call message to a storage unit e.g. a storage unit . The process can then send a reply message to the server FC adapter . To receive call messages and send reply messages the server can provide a server messaging service so that the messages are communicated between the server and the client over the FC network.

The server FC adapter can receive SCSI requests from and provide SCSI responses to the server OS SCSI service . Thus the server FC adapter handles among other SCSI requests the SCSI write SCSI read and SCSI inquiry requests from a client. To that end the server FC adapter implements the server side of a virtual connection with a client. In some embodiments the server FC adapter creates one or more SCSI devices which then are mapped to one or more LUNs. A device can be of any type such as a processor SCSI device or any other SCSI device type such as a communications SCSI device. The LUNs are then advertised to a client as described above.

Importantly because the server FC adapter creates a SCSI device so that SCSI requests for the associated LUN are routed to the server FC adapter instead of to a logical disk or physical device the LUN is effectively a rendezvous point at the server FC adapter for SCSI requests sent to the server over a FC network. Consequently the server FC adapter can accept multiple client SCSI requests to a single LUN. Furthermore this allows the LBA field of SCSI requests to include values that are not an actual logical block address. For example the LBA field can include the virtual connection identifier instead of an actual logical block address for the created SCSI device.

The server FC adapter can implement the SCSI inquiry request sent by a client to describe an advertised LUN by for example responding with a SCSI response indicating that the LUN can receive SCSI requests over a FC network. Thereafter the server FC adapter can receive one or more SCSI requests over the FC network from the client to establish a virtual connection. The server FC adapter can respond to such requests by assigning a virtual connection identifier for the virtual connection. The virtual connection identifier can be part of a tuple to guarantee the virtual connection is identifiably unique across space and time for example the tuple can include a generation number and or a verifier value generated by the server FC adapter . Additionally the server can identify a transport path over the FC network that the client is to use for the virtual connection by for example selecting the transport path from a catalog of transport paths provided by the client.

The server FC adapter can also associate a process with the virtual connection by for example using a process descriptor for the process provided in a SCSI request for a virtual connection from a client. Once a virtual connection is established the server FC adapter is able to handle SCSI requests that include the virtual connection identifier using the associated process . The server FC adapter can provide call messages to a process by for example extracting a call message from a call SCSI request originating at a client and providing the call message to the process . Thereafter the server FC adapter can respond to the call SCSI request with a status code e.g. a SCSI status code or a vendor specific status code indicating the all or part of the call message has been accepted.

In response to the call message a process can provide a reply message to the server FC adapter . Where the server FC adapter subsequently receives a reply SCSI request for the virtual connection the server FC adapter can respond by creating a reply SCSI response that includes the virtual connection identifier and the reply message in the payload.

In one embodiment the server FC adapter can associate a process with a virtual connection by establishing a backend connection from the server FC adapter to a process . This connection can be for example a localhost connection or other transmission control protocol TCP connection established using a process descriptor e.g. a port number for a process . Accordingly server FC adapter can associate the virtual connection identifier with the process using the backend connection.

The server FC adapter is also operable to monitor the expected received call and reply SCSI requests using counters or other values. An expected sequence number can be included in a SCSI response from the server FC adapter . In one embodiment an expected call sequence number is incremented for each call SCSI response to a received call SCSI request and an expected reply sequence number is incremented for each reply SCSI response to a received reply SCSI request. Each expected sequence number is incremented after a SCSI response is provided to the server OS SCSI service to be sent to a client over a FC network. A respective expected call sequence number is incremented even where the server FC adapter only accepts a portion or none of a call message e.g. due to insufficient memory at the server . Similarly the reply sequence number is incremented even where the server FC adapter only includes an incomplete reply message or returns an indication that no reply message is available.

SCSI requests received at the server FC adapter from a client can include the sequence number or a portion thereof. For example call SCSI request includes the call sequence number in a payload of the reply SCSI response. However the server FC adapter does not increment the sequence numbers included in the SCSI responses rather the expected sequence numbers are only incremented after the SCSI responses are provided to the server OS SCSI service to be sent to a client over a FC network.

The server FC transport adapter can validate SCSI requests received from a client according to the actual sequence numbers included in the SCSI requests. For SCSI requests that include the full sequence number e.g. call SCSI requests the server FC transport adapter can validate the SCSI request by comparing the sequence number included in the call SCSI request to the expected call sequence number. For SCSI requests that include only a portion of the sequence number e.g. reply SCSI requests the server FC transport adapter can validate a reply SCSI request by comparing the portion of the sequence number included in the reply SCSI request to the corresponding portion of the expected reply sequence number. The server FC adapter validates a sequence number included in a SCSI request that matches the excepted sequence number. In some embodiments the server FC adapter validates a sequence number included in a SCSI request that indicates a retried SCSI request e.g. the expected sequence number is an increment greater than the actual sequence number in the SCSI request . In instances in which the sequence numbers do not match and do not indicate a retried SCSI request the SCSI request is erroneous and may be discarded or responded to with an indication that the sequence number is erroneous.

Because a client can retry failed or aborted SCSI requests without incrementing the sequence number the server FC adapter is operable to handle situations in which the sequence number included in the SCSI request indicates a retried SCSI request. For retried call SCSI messages the server FC adapter again responds with a call SCSI response indicating that all or part of the call message from the call SCSI request has been accepted. For retried reply SCSI messages the server FC adapter again responds with a reply SCSI response including all or part of the reply message which may be stored in a buffer or cache until the server FC adapter receives an acknowledgement from the client that the reply SCSI message has been received by the client. The server FC adapter then sends the stored SCSI response to the client over a FC network.

It should be appreciated that embodiments of the invention as will be hereinafter described may be implemented in conjunction with the execution of instructions by a processor e.g. processor or processor of a client or the server and or other circuitry of a client or the server . Particularly circuitry of both a client and the server including but not limited to a respective processor can operate under the control of a program routine or the execution of instructions to execute methods or processes in accordance with embodiments of the invention. For example a data optimization module at a client may be implemented in firmware software e.g. stored in main memory or hardware and may be implemented by a processor and or other circuitry of the client . Further it should be appreciated that the terms processor microprocessor circuitry controller etc. refer to any type of logic or circuitry capable of executing logic commands instructions software firmware functionality and the like.

Beginning first with the server the server FC adapter creates one or more SCSI devices which are mapped to one or more LUNs to be advertised to the client . As described above the LUN is effectively a rendezvous point at the server FC adapter for SCSI requests sent to the server over the FC network . Consequently the server FC adapter can accept multiple client SCSI requests from multiple clients to a single LUN. Furthermore this allows the LBA field of SCSI requests to include values that are not an actual logical block address. For example the LBA field can include the virtual connection identifier and low order bits of the actual sequence number. The server OS SCSI service advertises the created LUN to the client over the FC network .

Turning to the client the client SCSI OS service discovers an advertised LUN as a SCSI device and identifies the LUN as such e.g. by creating a SCSI device entry. The FC transport adapter can then examine the discovered LUN to determine if the LUN is a transport path over the FC network to the server FC adapter such as by sending a SCSI read request to retrieve server information.

To communicate a message using SCSI requests and responses the data optimization module can provide a process descriptor to the FC transport adapter . The process descriptor identifies a server process to which the module is attempting to communicate a call message. The FC transport adapter can then establish a virtual connection by receiving a virtual connection identifier for the virtual connection and by sending a SCSI request to the discovered LUN that includes the process descriptor. The server OS SCSI service receives the SCSI request for the LUN and routes the SCSI request to the server FC adapter . Using the process descriptor in the SCSI request the server FC adapter associates the virtual connection with the process .

After providing the process descriptor the module provides the call message to the FC transport adapter . In one embodiment the call message is provided in response to a data send or receive request from the data storage module . The FC transport adapter adapts the call message to be communicated over the FC network as a SCSI request by for example creating a call SCSI request that includes the virtual connection identifier in the LBA field of the SCSI request and the call message in a payload of the SCSI request. In some embodiments the payload includes a header added by the FC transport adapter that includes other parameters e.g. a virtual connection tuple full call sequence number etc. . The FC transport adapter then sends the call SCSI request over the FC network to the discovered LUN using the client OS SCSI service .

The call SCSI request is then received over the FC network by the server OS SCSI service . The server OS SCSI service routes the call SCSI request to the server FC adapter . The server FC adapter receives the call SCSI request and examines LBA field of the call SCSI request s CDB to validate or identify the virtual connection. Once the server FC adapter has validated the virtual connection the server FC adapter extracts the call message from the call SCSI request such as by separating it from the SCSI specific data e.g. the CDB and from the header included in the request payload. The server FC adapter then provides the call message to the server process . In response to the call message the process services the call message and provides a reply message to the server FC adapter .

Thus the call message traverses the call message path as a call message that is adapted to a SCSI request sent over the FC network extracted from the SCSI request and then provided to the intended process . To retrieve a reply message to the call message the FC transport adapter creates a reply SCSI request. The reply SCSI request includes the virtual connection identifier in the LBA field of the SCSI request. The FC transport adapter then sends the reply SCSI request over the FC network to the discovered LUN using the client OS SCSI service . In some embodiments the reply SCSI request is created in response to a request from the data optimization module to get the reply message. Additionally the FC transport adapter can create and send a plurality of SCSI requests having one or more call messages before creating and sending the reply SCSI request.

The server OS SCSI service then receives the reply SCSI request over the FC network . The server OS SCSI service routes the reply SCSI request to the server FC adapter . The server FC adapter receives the reply SCSI request and examines the LBA field of the reply SCSI request s CDB to validate or identify the virtual connection. Once the server FC adapter has validated the virtual connection the server FC adapter adapts the reply message to a SCSI response. The server FC adapter adapts the reply message to be communicated over the FC network as a SCSI response by for example creating a reply SCSI response that includes the reply message in a payload of the SCSI response. The response payload can include a header added by the server FC adapter that includes the virtual connection identifier and or other parameters e.g. a virtual connection tuple reply sequence number etc. . The server FC adapter then responds to the reply SCSI request by sending the reply SCSI response over the FC network using the server OS SCSI service .

The client OS SCSI service then receives the reply SCSI response over the FC network . The client OS SCSI service routes the reply SCSI response to the FC transport adapter . The FC transport adapter receives the reply SCSI response and examines the header of the response s payload to validate or identify the virtual connection. Once the FC transport adapter has validated the virtual connection the FC transport adapter extracts the reply message from the reply SCSI response such as by separating it from the SCSI specific data and from the header included in the response payload. The FC transport adapter then provides the reply message to the module . Thus the reply message traverses the reply message path as a reply message that is adapted to a SCSI response sent over the FC network extracted from the SCSI response and then provided to the module .

To illustrate the communication between the client and the server of show embodiments of structures of SCSI requests and responses communicated over the FC network . shows a SCSI request that can be a SCSI write request or a SCSI read request. In the latter case the SCSI request does not include a payload . The SCSI request is packaged as a Fibre Channel frame or multiple frames if appropriate that includes a transport path between the client and the server along the FC network . In one embodiment the FC transport adapter specifies the transport path by issuing the SCSI request to the client side SCSI device entry for the discovered LUN. Consequently the FC frame having the SCSI request traverses the FC network from the client to the server according to the physical component . Once received by the server the server OS SCSI service can route the SCSI request to the server FC adapter according to the logical component .

Prior to being packaged as the FC frame the FC transport adapter can create the SCSI request . For many SCSI requests the FC transport adapter adopts the LBA field of the SCSI protocol to contain the virtual connection identifier for the virtual connection between the client and the server over the FC network . However the LBA field of an initial SCSI request to begin the establishment of a virtual connection can instead include an indication that the client wishes to establish a virtual connection with the server e.g. using a predetermined value or flag . In other embodiments the FC transport adapter can likewise omit a virtual connection identifier from the LBA field of a SCSI request for an operation not requiring a virtual connection e.g. a SCSI request to log a message at the server FC adapter . Additionally the FC transport adapter can include other parameters in the LBA field beyond a virtual connection identifier or an indicator.

In some embodiments such as SCSI read requests the SCSI request may not include any parameters outside of those added to a CDB by the FC transport adapter . In other embodiments of the SCSI request such as SCSI write requests the FC transport adapter creates the payload . The FC transport adapter can include a header in the payload . The content of the header varies according to the embodiment of the SCSI request . For example the FC transport adapter can add parameters to the header such as a process descriptor a catalog of transport paths a virtual connection tuple a request type e.g. a code for virtual connection establishment or to send a call message or if applicable information about a call message e.g. a byte size a byte sequence number or a call sequence number or an acknowledgement that a previous SCSI response sent by the server has been received e.g. a reply sequence number of a last received reply SCSI response . Additionally the FC transport adapter can include all or part of a call message such as a call message provided by the data optimization module . The created SCSI request can then be packaged as the FC frame and sent to the server over the FC network .

At the server the server FC adapter examines the LBA field included in the CDB of the SCSI request . The server FC adapter can use the included virtual connection identifier either alone or in combination with other parameters of the SCSI request such as a SCSI operation code to validate or handle the SCSI request . Where included the server FC adapter can also examine the header for validation and handling. For call SCSI requests the server FC adapter can extract the call message and provide the call message to the server process .

In response to a client SCSI request the server can send a SCSI response to the client over the FC network as shown in . Similar to the SCSI request the SCSI response is packaged as a FC frame or multiple frames if appropriate to be sent to the client along the FC network . In one embodiment the transport path is the same as that of the client SCSI request to which the SCSI response is responsive. Once received by the client over the FC network the client OS SCSI service can route the SCSI response to the FC transport adapter .

For many SCSI responses the server FC adapter creates the SCSI response prior to its being packaged as the FC frame . In some embodiments the server FC adapter adopts the sense data of the SCSI protocol to contain a status code responsive to the client SCSI request. For example the status code can indicate that the client SCSI request has been completely or incompletely processed by the server FC adapter that the client SCSI request has been rejected by the server FC adapter or other status related to the client SCSI request. The status code can comprise a number of values so that a meaningful status is conveyed for example the status code can be a combination of a generic status code e.g. check condition and a vendor specific status code e.g. an indication that only a segment of a call message has been accepted or an indication that a reply message is not available . Additionally the server FC adapter can include further information about the status code such as by including in the sense data a vendor specific value or a number of bytes of a call message that have been accepted.

In some instances the server FC adapter does not create the SCSI response . For example the client SCSI request may be aborted before reaching the server FC adapter and therefore the SCSI response includes an aborted status code originating at a component that aborted the client SCSI request e.g. the server OS SCSI service .

In some embodiments such as SCSI responses to call SCSI requests from the client the SCSI response may not include any parameters outside of the status code or the sense data . In other embodiments of the SCSI response the server FC adapter creates a payload . The server FC adapter can include a header in the payload . The header can include a virtual connection identifier as well as other parameters such as a virtual connection tuple a request type e.g. a code for virtual connection establishment or to send a reply message a request for the client to migrate to a new transport path or if applicable information about a reply message e.g. a byte size a byte sequence number or a reply sequence number . Additionally the server FC adapter can include all or part of a reply message such as a reply message provided by the server process . The created SCSI response can then be packaged as the FC frame and sent to the client over the FC network .

At the client the FC transport adapter examines the status code included in the sense data of the SCSI response . The FC transport adapter can use the status code either alone or in combination with other parameters of the SCSI response to validate or handle the SCSI response . Where included the FC transport adapter can examine the header for validation and handling. For reply SCSI responses the FC transport adapter can extract the reply message and provide the reply message to the data optimization module .

In the virtual connection identifier is included to identify a virtual connection which the FC transport adapter is to use to communicate messages over the FC network . The sequence number is included to monitor or validate an associated one of a reply message or a call message. Similarly a generation number of a virtual connection tuple is included to validate the SCSI request. The byte padding is included to indicate a number of padding bytes included in SCSI requests and responses. The byte padding can be included in some embodiments because the FC transport adapter and the server FC adapter use SCSI read and write requests to transfer data of any size but the SCSI requests operate in units of block that are customarily 512 bytes. Finally a timeout is included to indicate an expected maximum duration for a SCSI request to be serviced or for a SCSI response to be received. In some embodiments one or more parameters can be a bit segment of a full parameter such as a low order bit segment of the sequence number or the generation number .

Importantly the parameters included in the LBA field of are to be regarded as illustrative and not limiting. Other parameters are used in other embodiments of the LBA field . For example the LBA field of an initial SCSI request to begin the establishment of a virtual connection can instead include an indication that the client wishes to establish a virtual connection with the server e.g. a predetermined value or flag .

Turning to a method for initializing a client is illustrated according to one embodiment of the invention. The client can be initialized for connecting with a server over a Fibre Channel network so that the client can send SCSI requests to and receive SCSI responses from the server. The method can be performed by a client of to connect with the server over the FC network .

Beginning first with operation an identifier for the server is received at the client. In one embodiment the server identifier can be received as input at the client. For example a user can input the server identifier at an interface of the client such as a graphical user interface GUI provided by a module at the client or a command line interface. In some embodiments the server identifier can be a stored value.

At operation a FC transport adapter at the client is initialized. The initialization can occur for example when the client boots up in response to a module at the client or in response to user input. In some embodiments operations and are transposed or are concurrent so that the FC transport adapter is initialized before or simultaneously with the reception of the identifier for the server. Thus the client can receive a server identifier using FC transport adapter.

Proceeding to operating the client registers the server. In some embodiments registering the server with the received server identifier indicates that messages between the client and the server are to be communicated over a FC network. According to the server identifier the client can determine which of the discovered LUNs are paths to the registered server by for example sending a SCSI read request to get server information and comparing the SCSI response to the server identifier. Thus call messages from a module can be sent to the registered server using discovered SCSI LUNs.

With the server registered the client is operable to communicate with the server using SCSI requests over a FC network. In one embodiment the client communicates with the server in response to a module at the client that is to communicate with a server process. To do so a virtual connection is first established. With a virtual connection established the client is operable to communicate with the server over the FC network using messages adapted to SCSI requests and responses. The client can establish additional virtual connections for additional message communication.

Where the client is to end communication with the server the client can unregister the server at operation . This operation can free resources at the client or allow the client to register another server n.b. the client can have more than one server registered concurrently . Additionally the client can unregister a server if an error has been detected e.g. where the FC network connecting the client to the server is unavailable or where there is a hardware failure at the client or the server . In one embodiment the server can be unregistered in response to input e.g. user input .

At completion the FC transport adapter at the client is shut down at operation . The shutdown can occur for example when the client shuts down and or in response to user input. In some embodiments operations and are transposed or are concurrent so that the FC transport adapter is shutdown before or simultaneously with the unregistering of the server.

Beginning with operation a process descriptor and a server identifier are provided at the client. The process descriptor and the server identifier may be provided sequentially or simultaneously. The process descriptor and the server identifier can be provided by a module of the client and subsequently be received by a FC transport adapter. The server identifier can identify the registered server with which the client is to communicate and the process descriptor can identify a process at the registered server for which one or more messages from the client are intended. The module can provide this information in response to a data send or receive request from another client module e.g. a data storage module .

At operation the client catalogs the transport paths to the registered server using LUNs discovered by the client. The client can catalog one or more transport paths to the registered server by issuing a SCSI request to get server information for each LUN such as a SCSI read request. The client can receive a SCSI response for each SCSI request that includes a server identifier and the transport path between the client and the server over the FC network. In response to the one or more SCSI responses the client can catalog the transport paths corresponding to the LUNs advertised by the registered server. In one embodiment the client compares the server identifier at the client e.g. the server identifier of the registered server to a server identifier included in the SCSI response. Where the client validates the server identifier received in the SCSI response the client catalogs that transport path to the registered server. The cataloged transport paths can be stored or cached. Accordingly the client can catalog transport paths by using stored or cached transport paths instead of issuing SCSI requests.

In one embodiment of operation the client can determine that a server can receive call SCSI requests over the FC network. The client can issue a SCSI inquiry request for each SCSI device entry and receive a SCSI inquiry response. The client can then examine the one or more fields of the SCSI inquiry response that indicate a server can receive SCSI requests over the FC network. This inquiry information can be stored or cached so that the client may issue further SCSI requests only for LUNs advertised by a server that can receive SCSI requests over the FC network. In one embodiment this inquiry information is stored or cached by a client OS SCSI service as part of the SCSI device discovery process so that the FC transport adapter can later access the inquiry information. The FC transport adapter may also be operable to get inquiry information.

At operation the client creates a first SCSI request for the registered server that is to start the establishment of a virtual connection. The SCSI request can be for example a SCSI read request. The SCSI request can include an indication that this SCSI request is to start establishing a virtual connection. For example the indication can be a predetermined value included in the LBA field of the SCSI request.

At operation the client sends the first SCSI request to the registered server over the FC network to start the establishment of a virtual connection. The client can send the SCSI request to the registered server over the FC network using any transport path to the registered server such a selected transport path from the catalog of transport paths.

At operation the client receives a first SCSI response to the first SCSI request over the FC network to start the establishment of a virtual connection with the registered server. The first SCSI response can include an identifier for the virtual connection such as a value. Additionally the SCSI response can include parameters such as a generation number and or a verifier value. The SCSI response can further include server identification information so that the client can verify that the SCSI response is from the registered server.

In response to receiving the identifier for the virtual connection the client creates a second SCSI request at operation . This second SCSI request can be for example a SCSI write request. The second SCSI request can include the virtual connection identifier and the process descriptor. Additionally the second SCSI request can include the generation number and or a verifier value from the first received SCSI response. In some embodiments the second SCSI request includes the cataloged transport paths. Some of this information can be included in the LBA field of the SCSI request while other information can be included in the SCSI request payload.

At operation the client sends the second SCSI request to the registered server over the FC network to indicate the server process with which the client is to communicate. The client can send the SCSI request to the registered server over the FC network using any transport path to the registered server such as the transport path used for the first SCSI request.

At operation the client receives a second SCSI response to the second SCSI request over the FC network. This second SCSI response can indicate that the registered server is able to establish the virtual connection. In one embodiment the SCSI response is a status code such as a SCSI status code or vendor specific status code. The client can determine whether the registered server is able to establish the virtual connection based on the second SCSI response.

Where the client determines that the registered server is able to establish the virtual connection the client creates a third SCSI request at operation . This third SCSI request can be a SCSI read request. The third SCSI request includes the virtual connection identifier. The virtual connection identifier can be included in the LBA field of the third SCSI request. Additional information can be included in the third SCSI request such as in the LBA field.

At operation the client sends the third SCSI request over the FC network to the registered server over the FC network to complete the establishment of the virtual connection. The client can send the third SCSI request to the registered server over the FC network using any transport path to the registered server such as the transport path used for the first and or second SCSI request.

At operation the client receives a third SCSI response to the third SCSI request over the FC network. The third SCSI response can include the virtual connection identifier. Additionally the third SCSI response can include a selected transport path that the client is to use for the virtual connection. In some embodiments the reception of the third SCSI response completes the establishment of the virtual connection.

At operation the client associates the virtual connection with the module providing the process descriptor. The client can associate the virtual connection by for example mapping the virtual connection to the module. In some embodiments operation occurs before some of the preceding operations of the method . For example the client can associate the virtual connection at any point after the virtual connection identifier is received at operation . With the virtual connection associated the client is operable to send and receive messages adapted to SCSI requests and responses over the FC network.

In one embodiment of operation the virtual connection is associated with the module by establishing a socket connection between the module providing the process descriptor and the FC transport adapter. For example the module can connect a stream socket with the FC transport adapter and provide that process descriptor when connecting. The FC transport adapter can subsequently map a socket identifier such as a file descriptor for the socket with the virtual connection identifier. Accordingly call messages can be received at the FC transport adapter as writes to the socket from the module. The module can then poll the socket and use socket reads to receive reply messages or other data provided to the socket by the FC transport adapter.

Turning to a method illustrates an embodiment of a method at a client for communicating messages between the client and a server over a Fibre Channel network using SCSI requests and responses. This method can be performed by a FC transport adapter communicatively coupled with one or both of a data optimization module and a data storage module of a client as shown in . In some embodiments the method is performed where a virtual connection has been established with a registered server over the FC network. Accordingly the SCSI requests include a virtual connection identifier associated with a client module.

Beginning with operation a call message is received at the client. As described above this call message can include for example an RPC request and data corresponding to the RPC request. In some embodiments the call message is received at the client s FC transport adapter from a client module such as a data optimization module that is associated with a virtual connection i.e. the module providing a process descriptor used to establish the virtual connection. In one embodiment the call message is received over a socket connection between the FC transport adapter and the module. For example the module writes the call message to a socket connected to the FC transport adapter.

At operation the client creates a call SCSI request such as a SCSI write request. In one embodiment the FC transport adapter creates the call SCSI request to adapt the call message to be sent over the FC network using the SCSI request structure. The virtual connection identifier is included in this call SCSI request. For example the LBA field of the call SCSI request can include the virtual connection identifier. Other parameters can be included in the LBA such as a timeout value and an operation sequence number or a bit segment of the operation sequence number . The call SCSI request includes the call message in the request s payload.

In some embodiments the payload of the call SCSI request includes a header added by the FC transport adapter in addition to the call message. The header can include some parameters for verification and handling of the call SCSI request and the call message contained therein. For example the header can include a virtual connection tuple. The header may additionally include an operation code so that the server receiving the call SCSI request can handle the call message appropriately. Furthermore the header can include a call sequence number a byte sequence number a number of bytes requested or an acknowledgement that a SCSI response has been previously received by the client such as a reply sequence number for a preceding reply SCSI request.

Subsequently the client sends the call SCSI request to the server over the FC network so that the call message may be received by a server process for which it is intended as shown at operation . In one embodiment the FC transport adapter provides the call SCSI request to a client OS SCSI service to be sent over the FC network. The client can send the SCSI request to the registered server over the FC network using any transport path to the registered server such as a transport path received from the server during the establishment of the virtual connection. In some embodiments one or more additional call SCSI requests can be created and sent to the server before proceeding.

At operation the client creates a reply SCSI request such as a SCSI read request. The reply SCSI request is created to retrieve a reply message from a server process over the FC network using the SCSI request and response structure. The virtual connection identifier is included in this reply SCSI request. For example the LBA field of the reply SCSI request can include the virtual connection identifier. Other parameters can be included in the LBA field such as a timeout value a reply sequence number and or a tuple value of the virtual connection tuple or bit segments of the reply sequence number or tuple value . In some embodiments this operation is performed in response to a request from a module such as the data optimization module that provided the call message.

Proceeding to operation the client sends the reply SCSI request to the server over the FC network so that the reply message may be retrieved from the server process for which the call message was intended. The client can send the SCSI request to the registered server over the FC network using any transport path to the registered server such as a transport path received from the server during the establishment of the virtual connection.

In response to operation the client receives a reply SCSI response from the server over the FC network at operation . In some embodiments the payload of the reply SCSI response includes a header in addition to the reply message. The header can include some parameters for verification and handling of the reply SCSI response and the reply message contained therein. For example the header can include a virtual connection identifier or virtual connection tuple so that the client receiving the reply SCSI response can validate the response. The header may additionally include an operation code so that the client receiving the reply SCSI response can handle the reply message appropriately. Furthermore the header can include a reply sequence number a byte sequence number a number of bytes returned in the reply message or a number of additional bytes of the reply message not returned in the reply SCSI response payload but available to be retrieved from the server. Where the reply SCSI response includes a number of additional bytes of the reply message not returned in the reply SCSI response the client can create one or more additional reply SCSI requests and send the one or more reply SCSI requests to the server of the FC network.

In one embodiment of operation the reply SCSI response includes an indication that the server requests that the client migrate to another transport path for future SCSI requests. This indication can be for example a flag or Boolean value or may simply be the presence of a new transport path. Going forward the client can use the new transport path when sending SCSI requests to the server.

At operation the reply message is extracted from the reply SCSI response. The extraction can include for example separating the reply message from SCSI specific or FC specific data. In some embodiments this operation involves recognizing a header in the reply SCSI response and separating the header from the reply message. For example the header can include a number of bytes of the reply message in the payload and a padding or offset of the reply message bytes within the payload so that the FC transport adapter recognizes that number of bytes as the reply message.

With the reply message available at the client the reply message is provided to the module associated with the virtual connection at operation . The reply message can be sent to the module or made available so that the module can retrieve the reply message such as by reading the reply message. In some embodiments the virtual connection includes a stream socket connected between the FC transport adapter and the module. The FC transport adapter can therefore provide the reply message to the module by making the reply message available at the stream socket. The module may be polling the socket and where the reply message is available read the socket to retrieve the reply message. Alternatively the FC transport adapter can write to the socket to provide the message to the module.

In one embodiment the client determines that all call messages from the client module and reply messages from the server process have been satisfactorily communicated. At this point the client can close the virtual connection such as by creating a SCSI request to close the virtual connection and sending that SCSI request to the server over the FC network. For example the client can close the virtual connection in response to the closing of the socket e.g. where the module closes the socket . The client can then return to the start virtual connection establishment state where a module may provide another process descriptor indicating that the module is to send additional call messages to a server process as shown in .

Now with respect to a server implementation of communicating messages between the server and a client over a Fibre Channel network using SCSI requests and responses illustrates a method for initializing a server according to one embodiment of the invention. The server can be initialized for connecting with a client over a Fibre Channel network so that the server can receive SCSI requests from and send SCSI responses to the client. The method can be performed by the server of to connect with a client over the FC network .

Beginning first with operation an identifier for the server is received at the client. In some embodiments the server identifier can be a stored value or received at the server as input e.g. user input . In one embodiment the server identifier can be received as input at the client and sent to the server. For example a user can input the server identifier at an interface of a client such as a command line interface and communicate the server identifier to the server using a cryptographic network protocol such as Secure Shell or other similar protocol.

At operation a client group is created. A client group can define the SCSI devices advertised to a client and at which ports of a server host bus adapter those devices are to be advertised. To that end the server can add a client to the client group where the client is connected to the server over the FC network as shown at operation .

Proceeding to operating the server creates one or more devices for the client group. The number of devices created may be contingent upon client considerations such as whether the client serializes SCSI requests and responses and presents those requests and responses to a single client side SCSI device entry. For other clients the client can dynamically adjust the number of simultaneous SCSI requests and responses so that the server need advertise only one SCSI device. Each SCSI device is then mapped to a respective LUN for the client group at operation . In some embodiments a SCSI device can be added to more than one client group so the SCSI device can be mapped to a LUN for each client group of which it is a member.

A LUN for the created client group is then advertised to the client over the FC network at operation . The advertised LUN can then be discovered by the client so that the client can send SCSI requests to that LUN. The server can advertise the LUN at one or more ports of one or more server HBAs according to the requirements of the client group. In some embodiments multiple LUNs are created and advertised for each client group.

With the client added to a group and one or more LUNs advertised to the client the server is operable to communicate with the client using SCSI requests and SCSI responses over the FC network. Accordingly at operation the server receives a SCSI request from the client over the FC network. The server can then service the SCSI request such as by routing the SCSI request to a server FC adapter. Where the server has responded to the SCSI request from the client the server is operable to send the SCSI response to the client over the FC network as shown at operation .

Beginning at operation a SCSI request originating at a client is received. This SCSI request can be a SCSI request for a LUN mapped to a SCSI device created by or associated with a server FC adapter of the server. The SCSI request can be received from a server OS SCSI service operable to receive SCSI requests over the FC network.

At operation the server determines the type of request included in the SCSI request. For example the type of request can be a request to establish a virtual connection a request to send or receive a message from the server or a request to get information associated with the server. For some SCSI requests the SCSI request includes the request type in the LBA field of the SCSI request such as a predetermined value or other indicator. The request type can also be included in a header within a payload of the SCSI request. For other SCSI requests the server is operable to identify a virtual connection identifier included in the SCSI request and resolve the request type based on the virtual connection identifier. In one embodiment the server determines the request type using the virtual connection identifier in combination with one or more other parameters such as an SCSI operation code of the SCSI request e.g. SCSI read or an additional value in the LBA field or payload of the SCSI request.

In response to determining the request type the server determines how to handle the SCSI request as shown at decision block . In one embodiment the SCSI request can include one of three request types 1 a request to get information about the server 2 a request establish a virtual connection and 3 a request for an existing virtual connection. A request to establish a virtual connection may include SCSI requests for the assignment of a virtual connection identifier and other related requests from the client to establish a virtual connection such as a SCSI request including a process descriptor. An embodiment of a method for establishing a virtual connection is illustrated at . A request for an established virtual connection may include SCSI requests including call messages or other data and SCSI requests to retrieve reply messages or other data. An embodiment of a method for communicating messages by a server is illustrated at .

A request to get server information may be received at the server where the server has not yet established a virtual connection with the client or where the client is attempting to confirm or catalog information about the server. Where the SCSI request is a request to get server information the server responds with a SCSI response that includes information about the server at operation . In one embodiment the server creates a SCSI response that includes information about the server included in a payload of the SCSI response. The server information can include for example a server identifier a serial number and or the transport path which the SCSI request traversed in reaching the server e.g. a transport path including a physical component and a logical component . The request is then sent by the server to the client over the FC network.

Beginning with operation a first SCSI request originating at the client is received by the server over the FC network. The first SCSI request can indicate that the client is attempting to start the establishment of a virtual connection. The SCSI request can be for example a SCSI read request that includes an indication or other a predetermined value included in the LBA of the SCSI request.

In response to the received SCSI request the server assigns a virtual connection identifier to the virtual connection as shown at operation . The virtual connection identifier can be for example a value and can be part of a virtual connection tuple that includes a generation number and or verifier assigned by the server to ensure that the virtual connection can be uniquely identified across space and time. The server can assign the virtual connection identifier by for example generating a value or selecting a value from a pool of available values.

At operation the server responds to the first SCSI request with the virtual connection identifier. In one embodiment the server creates a SCSI response that includes the virtual connection identifier and or other parameters such as the virtual connection tuple and or a server identifier. The server can then send the first SCSI response to the client over the FC network. In some embodiments the server places the virtual connection in a waiting state with a timeout. Where the server does not receive a second SCSI request from the client for the virtual connection before the timeout expires the server can release the virtual connection identifier and any resources associated with the virtual connection.

After responding to the first SCSI request with the assigned virtual connection identifier the server receives a second SCSI request from the client over the FC network as shown at operation . The second SCSI request includes a descriptor for a server process with which the client is attempting to communicate. The second SCSI request can be a SCSI write request. In one embodiment the second SCSI request includes the assigned virtual connection identifier in the LBA field of the second SCSI request. The second SCSI request can also include parameters for validation and creation of the virtual connection such as the virtual connection tuple. The parameters can be included in a payload of the second SCSI request. In one embodiment of operation the second SCSI request includes a catalog of transport paths between the server and the client over the FC network.

At operation the server associates the virtual connection with a server process corresponding to the process descriptor included in the second SCSI request. The server can associate the virtual connection by for example mapping the virtual connection to the server process. In some embodiments operation occurs after some of the succeeding operations of the method . For example the server can associate the virtual connection at any point after the process descriptor is received at operation . With the virtual connection associated the server is operable to receive and respond to messages adapted to SCSI requests over the FC network. An embodiment of this communication process is illustrated at .

At operation the server responds to the second SCSI request with a second SCSI response. This second SCSI response can indicate that the server is able to establish the virtual connection. In one embodiment this second SCSI response is contingent upon operation . For example the server FC adapter creates a second SCSI response indicating that the server is able to establish the virtual connection only where the server FC adapter first associates the virtual connection with the server process. In one embodiment the second SCSI response is a status code such as a SCSI status code or vendor specific status code. The server can then send the second SCSI response to the client over the FC network. In some embodiments the server again places the virtual connection in a waiting state with a timeout. Where the server does not receive a third SCSI request from the client for the virtual connection before the timeout expires the server can release the virtual connection identifier and any resources associated with the virtual connection and or disassociate the server process.

At operation the server receives a third SCSI request over the FC network that is to complete the establishment of the virtual connection. This third SCSI request can be a SCSI read request. The third SCSI request includes the virtual connection identifier such as in the LBA field of the third SCSI request.

The server can select a transport path to complete the establishment of the virtual connection. As shown at operation the server selects the transport path for the virtual connection from the catalog of transport paths provided to the server at operation . The catalog of transport paths can be used by the server for load balancing and other optimization. The server can select a transport path so that SCSI requests are more evenly distributed across ports server HBAs and or LUNs of the server.

At operation the server responds to the third SCSI request with the selected path for the virtual connection. In one embodiment the server creates a SCSI response that includes the virtual connection identifier and the transport path in a payload of the third SCSI response. The payload of the third SCSI response can include other parameters such as a virtual connection tuple. In response to the third SCSI request the server can then send the third SCSI response to the client over the FC network. In some embodiments responding to the third SCSI request with the third SCSI response completes the establishment of the virtual connection at the server.

Turning to a method illustrates an embodiment of a method at a server for communicating messages between the server and a client over a Fibre Channel network using SCSI requests and responses. This method can be performed by the server FC adapter operable to communicate with one or more processes of a server as shown in . In some embodiments the method is performed where a virtual connection has been established with a client over the FC network. Accordingly SCSI requests received at the server from the client include a virtual connection identifier for the virtual connection. With respect to the embodiment of the received SCSI request illustrated in the method can be a SCSI request received at operation and determined to be a SCSI request for an established virtual connection at operations .

Beginning with operation a SCSI request originating at the client is received by the server over the FC network. The received SCSI request is for an established virtual connection and accordingly the SCSI request includes a virtual connection identifier. Additionally the SCSI request can indicate that the client is attempting to send a call message to a server process or retrieve a reply message from a server process. The SCSI request can be a SCSI read request that includes a virtual connection identifier in the LBA field of the SCSI request i.e. a reply SCSI request . Alternatively the SCSI request can be a SCSI write request that includes the virtual connection identifier and a call message i.e. a call SCSI request .

At operation the server identifies a server process that is associated with the virtual connection of the received SCSI request. For example the server can maintain a map of the virtual connection to the server process. Subsequently the server can refer to the map to identify the process using the virtual connection identifier included in the received SCSI request. In one embodiment of operation the associated server process is identified from a map of the virtual connection to a socket identifier e.g. a file descriptor for an established socket connection between the server FC adapter and the server process.

Following the identification of the associated process the server handles the received SCSI message according to the type of request as shown at decision block . For some SCSI requests the server is operable to identify a virtual connection identifier included in the SCSI request and resolve the request type based on the virtual connection identifier. In one embodiment the server determines the request type using the virtual connection identifier in combination with one or more other parameters such as an operation code included in the CDB of the SCSI request e.g. a SCSI read operation code or an additional value in the LBA or payload of the SCSI request. In some embodiments the request type is determined at operations of . Consequently the type of request can be resolved before the associated server process is identified.

Where the received SCSI request is a call SCSI request e.g. a SCSI write request including the call message in the payload the method proceeds to operation . At operation the server extracts a call message from the SCSI request. The extraction can include for example separating the call message from SCSI specific or FC specific data. In some embodiments this operation involves recognizing a header in the call SCSI request and separating the header from the call message. For example the header can include a number of bytes of the call message in the payload and a padding or offset of the call message bytes within the payload of the call SCSI request so that the call message bytes can be extracted.

In one embodiment the call SCSI request includes an indication in the header that a prior SCSI response sent by the server was received by the client. The indication can be for example a sequence number included in a prior reply SCSI response received by the client from the server. In response to the indication that the client received a prior SCSI response from the server the server can increment the expected reply sequence number and free resources consumed by the prior SCSI response such as by removing a reply message included in the prior SCSI response from one or more buffers.

With the call message extracted at the server the call message is provided to the process associated with the virtual connection at operation . The call message can be sent to the process or made available so that the process can retrieve the call message such as by reading the call message. In some embodiments the virtual connection includes a connected stream socket between a server FC adapter and the associated process. The server FC adapter can therefore write to the socket opened for the associated process. Alternatively the server FC adapter can provide the call message so that it can be read from the socket connected with the associated process.

At operation the server responds to the received SCSI request with a SCSI response. This SCSI response can indicate that the server is able to accept the entire call message included in the SCSI request. In one embodiment the SCSI response is a status code such as a SCSI status code or vendor specific status code. The server can then send the SCSI response to the client over the FC network.

In one embodiment this SCSI response is contingent upon operation . For example the server FC adapter creates a SCSI response indicating that the server is able to accept the entire call message only where the server FC adapter first buffers the entire call message or provides the entire call message to the associated process. In some instances the server is unable to accept the entire call message. Therefore the server can create a SCSI response indicating that some or none of the call message is accepted. In some embodiments a SCSI response indicating that the entire call message is not accepted can include a number of bytes of the call message that are accepted by the server.

Where the received SCSI request is a reply SCSI request e.g. a SCSI read request for an established virtual connection the method proceeds to operation . At operation the server receives a reply message from the associated process. The reply message may be a reply to a call message such as data for a call message to get that data. The reply message can be sent by the associated process to the server FC adapter or made available so that the server FC adapter can read the reply message. In some embodiments the virtual connection associated with the identified process includes a stream socket connection between the server FC adapter and the associated process. The server FC adapter can therefore read the reply message from the socket connected with the identified process. Alternatively the associated process writes the reply message to the socket connected with the virtual connection.

At operation the server responds to the received SCSI request with a reply SCSI response. In one embodiment the server creates the reply SCSI response so that a payload of the response includes the virtual connection identifier and the reply message. The payload of the reply SCSI response can include other parameters such as a virtual connection tuple. In some embodiments the reply message is incomplete. For example the reply message may be responsive to an earlier received call message requesting data but the reply message may only contain a portion of the requested data. The reply SCSI response can indicate that the reply message does not contain all of the requested data such as by including a number of bytes returned in the reply message and or a number of bytes that are available at the server in response to a call message but not returned in the instant reply SCSI response. The server can then send the reply SCSI response to the client over the FC network.

In one embodiment the reply SCSI response includes an indication that the server requests that the client migrate to a different transport path for future SCSI requests. This indication can be for example a flag or Boolean value and or the presence of a different transport path in a header of the reply SCSI response. The different path may be selected from a catalog of transport paths received by the server from an earlier SCSI request from the client. In this way the server can balance the load of received SCSI requests across the server HBAs and or LUNs.

Turning now to the method illustrates an embodiment of a method executed by a server for servicing SCSI requests received over a FC network from a client. In one embodiment the method can be performed by the server FC adapter of the server illustrated in . The method can be performed in response to receiving a SCSI request from the client at a server FC adapter of the server such as a SCSI request routed to the server FC adapter by a server OS SCSI service. With respect to the embodiments of the method is not mutually exclusive and some operations of can be performed in addition to those operations illustrated in the method . For example operations may still be performed to determine the request type. In such an example the method is performed for both virtual connection assignment requests and requests for an established virtual connection.

Beginning with operation the server receives a first SCSI request from the client over the FC network. The first SCSI request includes a descriptor for a server process with which the client is attempting to communicate. Additionally the first SCSI request includes a virtual connection identifier for a virtual connection. This virtual connection identifier may have been assigned by the server such as described at operations and of . In one embodiment this operation is analogous to operation .

At operation a socket is created and connected to a server process using the process descriptor. A server FC adapter can create and connect the socket. By creating the socket a socket identifier such as a file descriptor is returned. Thus the socket identifier is received by the server FC adapter. In one embodiment the process descriptor is a port number. The server FC adapter can establish a connection with the server process by connecting the created socket to the server process using the port number. The established connection can be a localhost connection or a remote connection. The server FC adapter can then write to the socket poll the socket and read from the socket to communicate messages e.g. data to and from the server process.

Once the socket is created and connected to the server process the socket can be associated with the virtual connection identifier as illustrated at operation . The server can associate the socket with the virtual connection by for example mapping the virtual connection identifier to the socket identifier. The operations can be an embodiment of operation . Accordingly the virtual connection can be established following operation for example operations can be performed.

In one embodiment of operation two or more threads are created and attached to the socket so that messages can be continuously written to and read from the socket. For example the server FC adapter can write call messages to one or more buffers and attach those buffers to the virtual connection. A write thread then asynchronously writes the buffered call messages to the socket associated with the virtual connection. A read thread can then poll the socket and read reply messages into one or more buffers which the second thread then attaches to the virtual connection. The server FC adapter can receive the reply messages from the buffers attached to the virtual connection.

At operation a second SCSI request originating at the client is received by the server over the FC network. The received SCSI request is for the established virtual connection and accordingly the SCSI request includes a virtual connection identifier. Here the second SCSI request can indicate that the client is attempting to send a call message to a server process i.e. a call SCSI request . In some embodiments this operation is analogous to operation of . Accordingly operation follows operation in some embodiments of the method . In one embodiment the server process can be identified by the socket connected to the process.

Proceeding to operation a call message is extracted from the SCSI request. In one embodiment the extraction is analogous to operation . The extracted call message can then be written to the socket having the socket identifier associated with the virtual connection identifier included in the second SCSI request as shown at operation . This operation can include writing the call message to one or more buffers and attaching the one or more buffers to the virtual connection. A write thread can then write the buffered call message to the socket. Operation illustrates one embodiment of operation . Therefore operation can follow operation in some embodiments of the method .

At operation a reply message is read from the socket associated with the virtual connection. In some embodiments the server FC adapter is polling the socket and where the reply message is available the server FC adapter reads the reply message from the socket. Operation can include a read thread that polls the socket and reads the available reply message into one or more buffers which are then attached to the virtual connection. Depending upon the available buffer space the read thread can read an entire reply message to one or more buffers or a portion of a reply message. Operation illustrates one embodiment of operation .

Continuing to operation a third SCSI request originating at the client is received by the server over the FC network. The third SCSI request is for an established virtual connection and accordingly the third SCSI request includes a virtual connection identifier. The third SCSI request can be a SCSI read request that includes a virtual connection identifier in the LBA of the SCSI request i.e. a reply SCSI request . In one embodiment the third SCSI request is identified as a reply SCSI request according to an embodiment of operation for example the server FC adapter can determine that the third SCSI request is a reply SCSI request by examining the LBA for the virtual connection identifier and the operation code for the SCSI read operation code.

At the operation the third SCSI request is responded to with a reply SCSI response. In one embodiment the server creates the reply SCSI response that includes the virtual connection identifier and the reply message in the payload of the reply SCSI response. The payload of the reply SCSI response can include other parameters such as a virtual connection tuple. In some embodiments the reply message is incomplete. For example a read thread may only be capable of buffering a portion of a reply message available at the socket. The reply SCSI response can indicate that the payload of the reply SCSI response does not contain the full reply message. An embodiment of operation is described at operation . The server can then send the reply SCSI response to the client over the FC network. In one embodiment the reply SCSI response includes an indication that the server requests that the client migrate to a different transport path for future SCSI requests as described with respect to operation .

Turning to a method illustrates an embodiment of a method executed by a client for communicating messages between the client and a server over a Fibre Channel network using SCSI requests and responses. This method can be performed by a FC transport adapter communicatively coupled with one or both of a data optimization module and a data storage module of a client as shown in . In some embodiments the method is performed where a virtual connection has been established with a registered server over the FC network. Accordingly the SCSI requests include a virtual connection identifier associated with a client module. With respect to the embodiments of the method is not mutually exclusive and some operations of can be performed in addition to those operations illustrated in the method . For example operation may still be performed to receive a call message from a client module. The method can be included in to provide reliable communication of messages.

Beginning with operation the client creates a first SCSI request such as a call SCSI request or a reply SCSI request. The virtual connection identifier is included in this first SCSI request such as in the LBA field. Other parameters can be included in the LBA field such as a timeout value and or a sequence number or a bit segment of the sequence number . Additionally a SCSI write request can include other parameters as part of its payload. For a call SCSI request the request s payload can include a call message byte number and or the number of bytes of the call message included in the payload. Two embodiments of operation are described at operations and of .

Subsequently the client sends the first SCSI request to a server over the FC network as shown at operation . The client can send the SCSI request to the server over the FC network using any transport path to the registered server such as a transport path received from the server during the establishment of the virtual connection.

At operation the client determines a message status of the first SCSI request. In one embodiment the message status is one of four categories 1 complete 2 incomplete 3 invalid and 4 failed. The client can determine that the message status of the first SCSI request is complete where all of a message has been communicated between the client and the server. For example the client can determine that the message status of a call SCSI request is complete where the server has accepted the entire call message. Alternatively the client can determine that the message status of a reply SCSI request is complete where the client has received the entire reply message from the server.

In some instances the server is unable to completely accept a call message e.g. the server has insufficient buffer space for the entire call message or completely send a reply message e.g. the reply message is not available for communication at the server or is too large to include in a payload of a single SCSI response . Consequently the client can receive a first SCSI response from the server over the FC network that indicates this incompletion. The SCSI response can include for example a status code and or an indication of a number of bytes accepted for a call message or the number of bytes returned for reply messages. The client then can determine that the message status of the first SCSI request is incomplete.

To maintain data integrity the first SCSI request sent by the client to the server over the FC network is validated at the server. In one embodiment the first SCSI request includes the virtual connection identifier in the LBA field of the first SCSI request. The server can validate the first SCSI request using the virtual connection identifier and or other parameters in the LBA such as a sequence number. Additionally where the first SCSI request is a call SCSI request having a payload the server can validate the SCSI request using parameters included in the payload such as a virtual connection tuple. If the server determines that the first SCSI request is invalid the client receives a SCSI response from the server over the FC network indicating the first SCSI request is invalid. The client can determine that the message status is invalid upon receiving such a SCSI response from the server.

Additionally a SCSI response for the first SCSI request can be validated at the client. For example the client can validate a SCSI response using a header of the response that includes the virtual connection identifier and or other parameters included in the header such as a virtual connection tuple and a sequence number. If the client determines that the SCSI response is invalid the client can determine that the message status is invalid.

Occasionally the first SCSI request or the first SCSI response fails to be communicated such as due to a failure of software or hardware at the client the server or the FC network. The client can determine the failed message status where a client timeout expires and a SCSI response has not been received. Alternatively the client can determine the failed message status of the first SCSI request by receiving a notification that the SCSI request failed e.g. from a client OS SCSI service or by receiving a SCSI response from the server indicating that the first SCSI request was aborted e.g. before reaching a server FC adapter .

Where the message status is determined to be complete normal message communication using SCSI requests and responses over a FC network can resume as shown at decision block . An embodiment of this process is illustrated at and the process can resume at for example operations or .

If the message status is not complete the client can determine an action based on the determined message status as shown at operation such as retrying the SCSI request or closing the virtual connection. In one embodiment the client can provide the status to the module such as by indicating the call or reply message could not be sent or received or by indicating a socket failure at the FC transport adapter. In response the module can instruct the FC transport adapter to end message communication such as by closing a socket connection between the module and the FC transport adapter. Thus FC transport adapter can disassociate the module and the virtual connection and cease creating SCSI requests for message communication for that virtual connection.

In an embodiment in which the client determines the message status is incomplete the client can determine that the action is to complete the message communication by creating a next SCSI request at operation . Where the first SCSI request includes a call message the client can create a next call SCSI request that includes the remainder of the call message that was not accepted by the server. Where the first SCSI request is a reply SCSI request the client can create a next reply SCSI request that requests the remainder of the reply message.

In an embodiment in which the client determines the status is invalid the client determines that the action is to close the virtual connection. In one embodiment the client closes a virtual connection by sending a SCSI request to the server over the FC network to request that the virtual connection be closed. Thus at operation the client creates a next SCSI request e.g. a SCSI write request that includes the virtual connection identifier and an indication that the virtual connection is to be closed at the server. The client can also disassociate the virtual connection from the associated module.

In an embodiment in which the client determines the message status is failed the client can determine that the action is to retry the first SCSI request. Accordingly at operation the client can create a next SCSI request that is substantially the same as the first SCSI request. In some embodiments the next SCSI request does not increment the message sequence number but uses the same sequence number from the first SCSI request because the client assumes that the first SCSI request did not reach the server and therefore the expected sequence number at the server would not have been incremented. Additionally the client can select a new transport path for the next SCSI request to address a failure.

At operation the client sends the next SCSI request to a server over the FC network. The method then returns to operation and iterates through the method as described above.

Now with respect to a method illustrates an embodiment of a method executed by a server for reliably communicating messages between the server and a client over a Fibre Channel network using SCSI requests and responses. This method can be performed by a server FC adapter operable to communicate with one or more processes of the server as shown in . In some embodiments the method is performed where a virtual connection has been established with a client over the FC network. Accordingly the SCSI requests include a virtual connection identifier associated with a server process. With respect to the embodiments of the method is not mutually exclusive and some operations of can be performed in addition to those operations illustrated in the method . For example the operations of may be performed to create a socket connection to a server process and associate the socket with a virtual connection. The method can be included in to provide reliable communication of messages.

Beginning with operation a first SCSI request is received at the server. The received SCSI request is for an established virtual connection and accordingly the SCSI request includes a virtual connection identifier. The SCSI request can be a SCSI read request that includes a virtual connection identifier in the LBA field of the SCSI request i.e. a reply SCSI request . Alternatively the SCSI request can be a SCSI write request that includes the virtual connection identifier in the LBA field and a call message and or a header in the payload i.e. a call SCSI request . Embodiments of operation are described at operations and .

At operation the first SCSI request is validated. The first SCSI request can be validated by examining the virtual connection identifier such as by comparing it to an expected virtual connection identifier. Additionally the first SCSI request can be validated by examining other parameters included therein. In one embodiment the first SCSI request includes a tuple value of a virtual connection tuple or a bit segment thereof and the included tuple value is compared to an expected tuple value for that virtual connection. The server can examine the virtual connection identifier and other parameters at the LBA field of the first SCSI request. For a SCSI request that includes a payload e.g. a call SCSI request the server can use other parameters included in a header of the payload to validate the first SCSI request such as the virtual connection tuple in addition to or instead of the parameters in the LBA field. Where the server encounters an unexpected virtual connection identifier the server can determine that the first request is invalid. In one embodiment validation is contingent upon one or more parameters included in the first SCSI request in addition to the virtual connection identifier.

In one embodiment the first SCSI request includes a sequence number in addition to the virtual connection identifier. The server can compare the sequence number to an expected sequence number. Where the two sequences numbers do not match the server can determine that the request is invalid. However where the server determines that the request is otherwise valid and the received sequence number matches a last expected sequence number the server can assume that the client did not receive a last SCSI response sent by the server over the FC network and therefore the client is retrying the SCSI request. A retried request can be considered either valid or invalid depending upon the embodiment.

Where the first SCSI request is invalid the server proceeds to operation . At operation the server responds to the first SCSI request with a first SCSI response indicating that the first SCSI request is invalid. In one embodiment the server FC adapter creates a first SCSI response that includes a SCSI status code or vendor specific status code to indicate the invalidity. The first SCSI response is then sent to the client over the FC network.

Where the first SCSI request is valid the server continues to operation to determine a message status of the first SCSI request. The message status can be based on attempting to communicate a message with a server process associated with the virtual connection identified in the first SCSI request e.g. send a call message to or receive a reply message from the process .

Where the first SCSI request is a call SCSI request the message status can be determined based on whether the server accepts the entire call message. Two embodiments of this are illustrated at operations and . For example a server FC adapter can accept the entire call message by providing the call message to a server process associated with the virtual connection or by buffering the call message to be provided to the associated process and therefore the message status is complete. Where the server only accepts part of the call message the message status is incomplete.

Similarly where the first SCSI request is a reply SCSI request the message status can be determined based on whether a reply message is available for the virtual connection of the reply SCSI request. Two embodiments of this are illustrated at operations and . For example a server FC adapter receive the entire reply message from a server process associated with the virtual connection or by receiving the entire message from one or more buffers and therefore the message status is complete. Where the server only a portion of or none of the reply message is available the message status is incomplete.

In some embodiments the message communication is constrained by a timeout. If the server is unable to accept the call message or if an entire reply message is unavailable before the timeout expires the message status can indicate incomplete.

In one embodiment the first SCSI request includes an indication that a prior SCSI response sent by the server was received by the client. The indication can be for example a sequence number of a prior reply SCSI response received by the client from the server. In response to the indication that the client received a prior SCSI response from the server the server can free resources consumed by the prior SCSI response such as by removing a reply message included in the prior SCSI response from one or more buffers. Additionally the client can increment the expected reply sequence number.

At operation the first SCSI request is responded to with a first SCSI response based on the message status. For example if the server is able to accept or provide an entire call or reply message the server can create a first SCSI response indicating that the message status is complete. Where the server is unable to accept or provide an entire call or reply message the server can create a SCSI response indicating that the message status is incomplete. In some embodiments the SCSI response can include a number of bytes of an incomplete call message that were accepted or not accepted by the server. Alternatively the SCSI response can include a number of bytes of an incomplete reply message and or an indication that the reply message is incomplete e.g. the number of bytes requested and the number of bytes actually included do not match . Three embodiments of this operation are described at operations and of and operation of . The server can then send the SCSI response to the client over the FC network.

In embodiments wherein a retried SCSI request is not considered invalid the server can respond with the prior SCSI response. The server can have the prior SCSI response buffered or cached so that a retried SCSI request can be quickly responded to by the server without consuming additional resources. The server can then send the SCSI response to the client over the FC network.

At the end of the method normal message communication using SCSI requests and responses over a FC network can resume. An embodiment of this process is illustrated at .

At operation the server Fibre Channel adapter receives load conditions for endpoints of each path. The load conditions can be measured by a separate monitoring module or similar component of the system. The load can be measured in throughput resource usage queue length or similar metrics. The load is measured on an endpoint by endpoint basis. The local endpoints can be monitored by a module of the server Fibre Channel adapter at the server and or a module of the Fibre Channel transport adapter at the client. The server and client can exchange this data using the SCSI over Fibre Channel protocols as described herein or using other methods of communication.

The operation then selects the path with the lowest load at its endpoints. Where endpoint load is known for both ends the total cumulative load can be considered when selecting the path the server side endpoint can be given primary consideration or weight with the client side load being a secondary or tie breaking consideration or weight. Where endpoint load is only known for the server side endpoints then the path having the lowest load at the server side endpoint can be selected. In some embodiments the LUNs of a path are considered as a tertiary component of the load. Where the load across the LUNs of a selected server side endpoint are unevenly distributed then a less busy LUN of that server side endpoint can be selected for the path. The selected path is then assigned to the virtual connection at operation . The server Fibre Channel adapter can return the selected path that is assigned to the virtual connection as described herein above.

At operation the load on a particular path assigned to a virtual connection can be determined to exceed a define threshold. If such a threshold were not exceeded then the process would continue at the next interval at operation . The operation checks the load on alternate paths for a virtual connection in response to determining that the load on the path of the virtual connection has exceeded the threshold. The alternate paths can be known from the catalog or set of paths that was provided by the client at the time of the selection of the initial path for the virtual connection or by a recalculation of the available paths based on current topology data maintained by the server. The alternate path having the lowest or minimum load is selected by the virtual connection rebalancing module at operation .

The server Fibre Channel adapter at operation then migrates the virtual connection to the selected alternate path. The virtual connection can be updated with the path identifier or path information. At operation this path identifier or path information is sent to the client via a SCSI message to direct the client to utilize the selected alternate path over the Fibre Channel network for the specified virtual connection. This process can continue intermittently or at the defined interval to continuously check and rebalance the distribution of the virtual channels over the paths between a set of clients and the server and thereby optimize the use of resources and throughput for the server.

At operation the server Fibre Channel adapter identifies a set of locality domains. Locality domains are sets of processing units such as central processing units and the resources such as memory caches and network bandwidth that are associated and available to each of the processing units. These locality domains can be contained within a discrete server machine or can be distributed over multiple machines or similarly arranged. In one embodiment resources and processors allocated to one locality domain cannot be allocated or shared to any other locality domain. These locality domains can remain fixed during the operation of the server or in other embodiments can be dynamically rearranged as resources change or in response to failures within the server system. The locality domains are conceptual units of operation that are maintained by the server Fibre Channel adapter to manage the resources that are available to the server Fibre Channel adapter.

At operation at least one virtual connection engine is generated and assigned to each of the locality domains. A virtual connection engine is a collection of processing threads that handle the functions of a set of virtual connections. In one example embodiment these threads handle processing of incoming SCSI request including DATA SEND and DATA RECEIVE operations referred to as an Engine Control Thread the writing of buffered data to the backend local host sockets tied to the processes of the server referred to as a Data Send Poll Thread and the reading of data from the backend local host sockets into buffers to be provided to client systems via SCSI response messages referred to as a Data Receive Poll Thread . The virtual connection engine VCE can guarantee a single producer consumer model for handling a set of virtual connections. Production i.e. adding data to the stream is fully controlled by one thread and consumption i.e. removing data from the stream is fully controlled by one thread. The producer and consumer threads are separate and independent. A VCE can handle any number of virtual connections however an uneven distribution of the virtual connections can diminish performance. This performance can for example impact data cache utilization by the virtual connections. With a VCE sharing data cache resources amongst the virtual connections assigned to the VCE the data cache can become a bottleneck for the operations of the virtual connections assigned to a VCE with a heavy load.

At operation the VCE management module generates a virtual connection for the client to service the communication request between the client and the server. At operation the VCE management module determines a load for each of the VCEs in the server Fibre Channel adapter. The load can be determined by metrics such as throughput queue length processing time or similar metrics. The VCE management module selects the VCE with a minimum load at operation . This provides an initial load distribution upon creation of each virtual connection. However this load balance can change over the operation of a set of virtual connections as some virtual connections generate a heavier load over time.

The VCE managing module can generate virtual connections or take responsibility for assigning virtual connections to particular VCEs . New virtual connections can be assigned to any VCE . In one embodiment the VCE managing module assigns new virtual connections to a VCE with a minimum load to create an initial load balance amongst the VCEs. Each VCE can have access to a set of domain resources specific to the local domain .

The VCE balancing module analyzes the load on each of the VCEs to determine whether any VCE has an excessive load or a load that exceeds a particular threshold. If such a VCE is found then the VCE balancing module reassigns a set of virtual connections from the VCE with the high load to another VCE such as a VCE with a minimum or low load. The VCE balancing module can check the load balance at any interval or with any frequency and can check each VCE or a subset of the VCEs. The VCE balancing module can obtain the metrics from monitoring modules or similar sources for determining the VCE and virtual connection loads.

At operation the VCE rebalancing module checks whether the load on each VCE exceeds a defined threshold load. The threshold can be set by an administrator dynamically determined or pre programmed. A check can be made for each VCE or can be made just until at least one VCE is found to exceed the threshold. If no VCEs have a load that exceeds the threshold then the method continues by waiting until the next rebalancing iteration at operation .

However if at least one VCE is found to exceed the threshold then at operation the VCE rebalancing module reassigns at least one virtual connection of the VCE with the highest load or the load that exceeded the threshold. The virtual connections that are reassigned can be reassigned to the VCE that has a minimum load or at least a VCE with a load below the threshold. In one embodiment the virtual connection contributing the largest load to the VCE is the virtual connection that is reassigned. In another embodiment any set of virtual connections that reduce the load of the VCE below the threshold to an average load or similar standard can be reassigned to another VCE such that it does not as a result of the reassignment exceed the threshold.

As discussed above each VCE can have three threads that process the data for all virtual connections that are serviced by the VCE. The three threads are the Engine Control Thread Data Send Poll Thread and the Data Receive Poll Thread. With this method the VCE can guarantee a single producer and single consumer model of operation. The production method of adding data to the data stream can be fully controlled by one thread and the consumption method of removing data from the data stream can be controlled by one thread. The producer and consumer threads are different for the two data streams associated with each virtual connection. There is a send data stream for the data to be forwarded to the local host socket for the server process. There is also a receive data stream for the data received from the local host socket from the server process.

For the send data stream the producer thread is the Engine Control Thread for most incoming data where the Send Data operation can be satisfied quickly because the send data stream is not full. In other situations the Data Send Poll Thread can be a producer for this data stream when handling a pending Send Data operation after some data has been removed from the send data stream and written to the local host socket. The consumer for the send data stream is always the Data Send Poll Thread. For this data stream the producer thread seeks to be able to add data to the data stream e.g. implemented as a queue while the Data Send Poll Thread is seeking to remove data items from the send data stream and write them to the backend local host socket. Avoiding blocking the Engine Control Thread while the Data Send Poll is writing minimizes any latency associated with the send data stream.

For the receive data stream the producer is always the Data Receive Poll Thread. The consumer is typically the Engine Control Thread in the case where the Receive Data operation can be satisfied quickly out of data already present in the receive data stream. In other cases the Data Receive Poll Thread may be a consumer when handling a pending Receive Data operation after some data has been read out of the backend local host socket into the receive data stream. The consumer thread seeks to be able to remove data from the receive data stream e.g. implemented as a queue while the Data Receive Poll Thread filling the receive data stream via a read operation from the backend local host socket. It is desirable to avoid blocking the Engine Control Thread while the Data Receive Poll Thread is performing a read.

Based on a single producer single consumer model of operation as defined herein above the time locking each data stream is minimized thereby maximizing throughput. These structures are shown for an example set of messages being processed between the client and the server process by the server Fibre Channel adapter. The structures shown are isolated for sake of clarity from the general structures shown for example in and discussed herein above.

The server Fibre Channel adapter enables communication between a server process and a client. In the example the client sends a SCSI Write message with a payload of data to be provided to the server process. The virtual connection places this data in the send data stream which includes a queue and state data to track the current conditions of the queue including in one embodiment a lock. The data from the payload and the SCSI Write can be handled by the Engine Control Thread or by the Data Send Poll Thread itself for pending operations which stores the data in the tail of the send data stream queue. The Data Send Poll Thread then reads this data from the data stream when it reaches the head of the queue and writes it to the backend local host socket as a message for the server process.

The server process may generate a response message with data to be returned to the client. This message and data are handled by the Data Receive Poll Thread which stores the data in the receive data stream at the tail of the queue. The Engine Control Thread retrieves this data in response to receiving the SCSI Read message from the client which generates a SCSI Read Response message with the data from the head of the receive data stream. The Data Send Poll Thread can also retrieve the data for pending operations. The processes of the producer and consumer threads are further described in regard to and .

Implementing this system and process the producer and consumer can simultaneously access an individual buffer in the linked list of the data stream without the need for locking or only a very brief and limited use of a lock. This is because the producer is the only process that adds a buffer to the linked list and only adds a buffer when it already holds some data. Also the consumer is the only process that removes a buffer from the linked list of the data stream and only after it has consumed all data from every byte position within the buffer. A lock is held only when buffers are being added to or removed from the list.

This simultaneous access of a buffer without locking provides a performance advantage because a producer and consumer can access the same buffer without having to wait to obtain a lock which reduces idle time where one or the other must wait for the lock.

The operation detects availability of the destination port i.e. the backend local host socket association with the virtual connection which is a mechanism for communication between a server process and a client that utilizes the SCSI over a Fibre Channel network. In response to detecting the availability of the port the consumer thread check whether there is data available in the data stream i.e. the queue of the send data stream in this example of the virtual connection at operation . If there is no data in the data stream then the method continues and checks again in subsequent iterations whenever the thread is available to the virtual connection at operation .

If there is data available in the data stream then the consumer thread reads the available data from the head of the queue which in one example is implemented as a singly linked list at operation . The data read from the head of the queue is written or forwarded to the available destination port or backend local host socket in route to the server process at operation . A check is then made whether all the data from the head of the queue has been read and forwarded or similarly consumed by the consumer thread. If all of the data has not been read or consumed then the method continues allowing the consumer thread to continue to read and transfer data to the server process.

If however the reading of the data has exhausted the available data in the head of the data queue which may hold any amount of data or sufficient data for an entire message payload or response data to be easily held in one location in the queue then a lock is obtained by the consumer thread to exclude other processes or threads e.g. the producer thread from accessing the queue of the send data stream at operation . The lock is briefly held at operation this operation updates the head position of the queue effectively discarding the contents of the queue at the head position and releasing the position in the queue or the memory associated with the data stream. This data can be part of the header or management data stored in the state data of the data stream. At operation the lock can be released and the consumer process can continue to check for the available port and data to be written to the port at operation .

The operation the producer thread detects reception of data associated with a virtual connection between the client and the server process that are communicating over a Fibre Channel network using SCSI. The incoming SCSI requests are analyzed to determine a virtual connection that services the client messages at operation . At operation a check is made whether the virtual connection exists. If the virtual connection does not exist then the virtual connection is instantiated along with its data stream at operation . If the virtual connection and associated data stream already exists or if the virtual connection has been instantiated then a check is made whether the send data stream is full at operation . If the data stream is full then the process at operation may have to wait until data stream space becomes available or provide notification of a lack of data stream space. If the data stream is full then the SCSI request can be recorded as the pending operation for this virtual connection and held in that state for a period of time indicated in the request. If the request indicates a zero valued timeout or if the timeout expires before any data becomes available the SCSI request is completed with a completion code indicating that no data was transferred. Data is not retrieved from an upstream source e.g. a SCSI write DATA SEND operation until space is available in the data stream. For a DATA SEND case the DATA SEND operation includes a timeout value e.g. one second . If the timeout expires and there is still no room in the data stream then the DATA SEND operation is completed with a NO DATA TRANSFERRED response. The client recognizes this response and arranges to retry transferring the data. More generally if a notification is returned to the client of the lack of space in the data stream the client can function to throttle the data being sent by the client which slows down the rate of traffic to a manageable level.

At operation if the data stream is not full then the received data is written to the tail of the singly linked list or similar queue structure of the data stream. The singly linked list is utilized for this complex consumer producer model to help ensure that the threads are minimally blocked by one another. A check is made after the write to determine whether the tail of the linked list is full at operation . If the queue at the tail position is not full then the process continues to receive data and write it to the tail of the queue without requiring a lock.

However if the tail of the queue is full then the lock for the send data stream is obtained at operation . The position of the tail of the queue can then be updated at operation in the state of the data stream. After the update of the tail position has completed then the lock is released allowing continued reading and writing to the send data stream by the consumer thread and producer thread of these data streams for the virtual connections in a given VCE.

To manage the resource demand in terms of space and processing power the statistics items can be structured to maintain a set of counter arrays or similar data structures that track the associated metric over differing time ranges. For example the statistics items can include a creation timestamp when the statistic item was created and a current count showing a current value for the monitored metric representing the total value over the time between creation and the current time. For example if the statistics item tracks throughput the total count can be the total number of packets or bytes that have been transferred over the time of the statistic item existence or up to the last measurement. The statistics items can be updated with new measurements at regular intervals. To conserve space arrays of these regular intervals are maintained at varying levels of granularity. For example a first array which could be referred to as a short term or recent counter array can contain measurements over a short time period such as every 10 seconds. Other counter arrays can track measurements over a larger time periods such as on a minute by minute basis which can be referred to as a medium or long term counter array. Any number of such arrays over any variation in granularity can be tracked. The arrays can be structured to include timestamps TS indicating the timing of the recorded value paired with a recorded value for the given metric.

The statistics management module can service requests for data for a particular point in time or over a particular time interval. Typically this time interval is bounded at one end with a current time stamp and the other end is bounded by a specific value of the request. For example the request can be to get a metric from a statistics item over the last 5 minutes. However the statistics item may not have measured data that directly corresponds with this time period with one end of the time period falling between measured data points. The boundary metrics can be derived from the available data using interpolation to cure this defect of the counter arrays and measured data set.

In response to the request at operation the statistic management module accesses the relevant statistics item and calculates a result value for the requested statistic by adding together accrued values that are already stored in the statistics item as measurements recorded in the data arrays at the varying levels of granularity where these values fall within the received interval. These accrued values are added with interpolated values that fall outside the defined interval along with values inside the interval using the available data arrays at the varying levels of granularity. This provides greater accuracy where the older bound of the received interval does not fall at the time of a recorded value including when it falls between the ranges of the different data arrays of the statistical item. This can be accomplished by using the last oldest recorded value in the interval and the first newest recorded value outside the interval regardless of the data array each of these recorded values may be found in and interpolating a result that matches the interval boundary.

At operation the request for statistics over a specified interval of time is received by the statistics management module. The request is analyzed at operation to determine whether the start location of the specified interval falls in one of a set of defined cases. The start location as used herein indicates the earliest chronological boundary of the specified interval with the latest or most recent boundary corresponding to the current timestamp.

In a first case the start location falls between the current time stamp and the most recent time stamp tracked in the short term data structure. At operation the result value in this case is calculated by interpolation using the most recent value in the short term data structure and a current value corresponding with the current time stamp which is also tracked by the statistical item. The interpolated value can then be returned to the requestor at operation .

In a second case the start location falls within the time stamp range of the short term data structure. The request is analyzed at operation by calculating the result value from recorded data in the short term data structure that falls before the start location determined by time stamp comparison of the interval that is the oldest value in the short term data structure that falls within the specified interval. This value or all of the preceding values are added with an interpolated value that is derived from the oldest value in the interval and the most recent value that is outside the interval. The resulting sum can then be returned to the requestor at operation .

In a third case the start location falls between the short term and medium term data structures where there is no overlap between the time stamp ranges of these data structures. At operation the request is analyzed by calculating the result value from the last value in the short term data structure being added to an interpolated value derived from the last oldest value in the short term data structure and the most recent value in the medium term data structure. The resulting sum can then be returned to the requestor at operation .

In a fourth case the start location falls within the medium term data structure and the short term data structure specifically before the last oldest value of the short term data structure where there is overlap between the two data structures. At operation the request is analyzed by calculating the result value by interpolating a value derived from a current value and a most recent first value of the medium term data structure. The resulting interpolated value can then be returned to the requestor at operation .

In a fifth case the start location falls within the time stamp range of the medium term data structure. The request is analyzed at operation by calculating the result value from recorded data in the medium term data structure that falls before the start location determined by time stamp comparison of the interval that is the oldest value in the medium term data structure that falls within the specified interval. This value or all of the preceding values are added with an interpolated value that is derived from the oldest value in the interval and the most recent value that is outside the interval. The resulting sum can then be returned to the requestor at operation .

In a sixth case the start location falls between the medium term data structure and the creation time stamp. At operation the request is analyzed by calculating the result value adding a last value or the oldest value in the medium term data structure with a result obtained by interpolating a value derived from the value associated with the creation time stamp and an oldest value of the medium term data structure. The resulting sum can then be returned to the requestor at operation .

At operation the VCE rebalancing module searches for a one way reassignment of a virtual connection from a busiest VCE and or locality domain to a least busy VCE and or locality domain such that the reassignment places both the busiest VCE or locality domain and the least busy VCE or locality domain into a target load range i.e. a range of load values that are defined as acceptable load levels without reversing the relative load order of the VCE or locality domains involved in the reassignment. In one embodiment when deciding whether to move a virtual connection from one VCE or locality domain to another the process can proceed in two stages first to prefer to move a virtual connection from a busiest locality domain to a least busy locality domain. More precisely a virtual connection can be moved from a most busy VCE in the most busy locality domain to a least busy VCE in a least busy locality domain. Once the locality domains are relatively balanced then the process can seek to move a virtual connection from a most busy VCE to a least busy VCE within a locality domain. This two level approach to rebalancing applies to each stage of the process.

The load order is the order from high to low or low to high of the load of each VCE or locality domain. If a relative load order is maintained after an assignment then the load of the busiest VCE or locality domain will remain higher than the load of the least busy VCE or locality domain after the reassignment. A one way reassignment is a movement of a set of virtual connections from a respective VCE or locality domain to another VCE or locality domain. In the one way reassignment the receiving VCE or locality domain keeps all other virtual connections or VCEs respectively.

If a one way reassignment meeting this criteria is found at operation then the one way reassignment is schedule for execution at operation . The method then continues by waiting for the next interval or similarly proceeding to a subsequent iteration of the analysis for rebalancing. In some embodiments a single set of reassignments are carried out with each iteration or at each interval. In other embodiments multiple reassignments or iterations are carried out at each interval. Relative load order can then be considered over all reassignments during a given interval or set of iterations. The virtual connection or VCE that is reassigned can have any load associated with it or the individual load of the virtual connection can be unknown or inferred. In one example embodiment the virtual connection that is reassigned has a heavy load or the heaviest load. In another example embodiment the virtual connection that is selected has a load that if reassigned would place the VCE or locality domain of its current assignment into an acceptable load range.

If a reassignment was not found then at operation a search for a two way reassignment is carried out to find reassignments that move a virtual connection from the most busy VCE and or locality domain to the least busy VCE and or locality domain and to move another virtual connection from the least busy VCE and or locality domain to the most busy VCE and or locality domain. Thus the VCEs or locality domains swap a set of virtual connections. The net effect of the swap is to reduce the load on the most busy VCE and or locality domain and increase the load on the least busy VCE and or locality domain. The two way reassignment provides a greater range of possible solutions but comes at a higher expense in terms of computation and resources to identify the reassignments and carry out the assignments. In one embodiment the range of acceptable loads on each VCE or locality domain can be expanded and it can be allowed to reverse the relative load order of the VCEs and locality domains. In other embodiments any one or both of these requirements may be waived to find a solution.

At operation if a search found a two way reassignment then the reassignment can be schedule for execution at operation . If multiple solutions are found at any stage then tie breakers can be utilized to select from the solutions such as solutions that are closest to a middle of the target load range or similar tie breaking metrics. The method then continues by waiting for the next interval or similarly proceeding to a subsequent iteration of the analysis for rebalancing. As discussed above in other embodiments multiple iterations can be carried out at each interval.

At operation a search for a one way reassignment of a virtual connection is carried out to find a reassignment of a virtual connection from a most busy VCE and or locality domain to a least busy VCE and or locality domain. However contrary to operation this one way reassignment is not required to result in the VCEs or locality domains involved in the reassignment falling within a target load range but that still avoids reversing load order between the VCEs or locality domains. If such a one way reassignment is found at operation the method proceeds to schedule the execution of the reassignment at operation .

Finally if the previous searches do not reveal a reassignment that meets the established criteria the method performs a search for a one way reassignment of a virtual connection to find a reassignment of a virtual connection from a most busy VCE and or locality domain to a least busy VCE or locality domain. However contrary to operations and this one way reassignment is not required to result in the VCEs or locality domains involved in the reassignment falling within a target load range or to avoid reversing load order between the VCEs or locality domains. However the reassignment is required to reduce the imbalance between the VCEs or locality domains. That is the difference in load of the source and target VCEs or locality domains must decrease after reassignment when compared to current assignment. If such a one way reassignment is found then the method proceeds to schedule the execution of the reassignment at operation .

One skilled in the art would understand that this method of rebalancing is provided by way of example rather than limitation. The method can search for or alter the criteria with logical permutations while remaining consistent with the principles and structures described herein above. Such permutations can include greater use of two way reassignments or even reassignments involving one or more virtual connections or more than two VCEs or locality domains.

In the initial path selection method at operation the server Fibre Channel adapter receives a set of available paths from the client for a connection request in the process of establishing the virtual connection. The server Fibre Channel adapter can request or be provided with load metrics for the target endpoints and the initiator endpoints for each available path at operation . The metrics can be requested by the server Fibre Channel adapter from the statistics management module or similar component of the server. The client can also provide metrics when requested or along with the connection request.

Using the load data the server Fibre Channel adapter selects paths from the set of available paths that have the least busy target endpoints at operation . If there are multiple target endpoints having the same low level of busyness then a secondary consideration of the busyness of the initiator endpoint can be utilized to tie break. In other embodiment the relative busyness of the target endpoint and the initiator endpoint can be differently weighted. The busyness of an endpoint can be determined through any set of metrics. In one example embodiment the metrics can include virtual connection count for each endpoint throughput operations executed. These metrics can be collected at any interval such as at 10 second intervals or one minute intervals. The collection of the metrics over time can also be analyzed to determine trends with the metric that can indicate whether the endpoint is becoming more or less busy. After selection using this method the result is returned to the client to establish the connection with the server.

An example method of virtual connection path migration and rebalancing is illustrated by way of example and not limitation. At operation the rebalancing process can be started at a defined interval. The rebalancing can be re analyzed at any frequency using any interval between iterations. At operation the method proceeds by receiving or retrieving monitored load data for the set of target endpoints. This data can be obtained from the statistics management module or similar sources. The load can be calculated using any metric such as bytes transmitted using SCSI or similar metrics. If the metrics measuring the load on any endpoint show that the endpoint is below a defined threshold then the endpoint is disqualified at operation . This disqualification removes the endpoint as a candidate for load reductions since the load is already sufficiently low on the endpoint.

The method continues at operation where the method loops over the set of remaining endpoints associated with available paths by selecting a next endpoint that is the most busy target endpoint. The iteration over the set of endpoints continues until the set of endpoints is exhausted. The selected target endpoint is marked as disqualified removing it from consideration for further processing in later iterations. The goal of each iteration is to attempt to identify a set of virtual connections that are currently using paths to the selected target endpoint and that can be migrated to other alternative paths to thereby reduce the load on the target endpoint. In selecting which virtual connections to migrate the method seeks to consider the characteristics of both the target endpoint and the initiator endpoint of each alternative path. Amongst the set of possible solutions it can be preferred to migrate virtual connections to a path whose destination target endpoint is not busy at all as compared to being less busy overall. The method also prefers migrating virtual connections such that the imbalance between a source and destination of the migration of the endpoint is reduced but the high low relationship is still retained i.e. the relative load order is not reversed. 

The method also prefers to migrate virtual connections to paths with the same initiator endpoint then second to a less busy initiator and finally to a more busy initiator endpoint. To implement these preferences as well as other endpoint migration rules or suggestions the method loops over a set of all virtual connections to identify virtual connections where the overall load is improved by the movement of the virtual connection to a new path. The preferences are applied by the use of a set of categories that cover the preferences as well as permutations of each preference. There can be any number of separate categories defined and associated with each of the endpoints and paths. The names or identifiers of the categories can be descriptive have any number and can be utilized divide the set of endpoints into groups tied to the busyness of each endpoint whether the use of the path could cause a reversal of relative load order or similar criteria. In one example embodiment the categories can have an inherent order tied to their preference as a category. For example a category where there is an unbusy target endpoint an unchanged load order and the same initiator is utilized. Any number of different criteria can be used with each additional criteria increasing the amount of possible categories. The classification of all alternate paths of all VCs assigned to a selected target endpoint according to the busyness of the paths and their endpoints along with load order and imbalance is performed at operation .

The set of categorized alternate paths can then be examined to identify the path with the highest ordered categorization at operation . This method can continue to look for other alternate paths for other target endpoints or virtual connections until the lower ordered categories are reached. These lower ordered categories can be skipped or bypassed if a target level of load reduction is reached overall saving the computational resources for carrying out these now unnecessary comparisons. If the target level of load reduction is not reached then the lower order classification can be examined and utilized. For each discovered path the virtual connection and path index or similar identifying information can be recorded at operation . This set of alternative paths can then be returned for implementation of the migration by the respective VCE or similar entity. As mentioned above the process is generally applicable to both target and initiator endpoint analysis.

Some portions of the preceding detailed descriptions have been presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the ways used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as those set forth in the claims below refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the invention also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. Such a computer program is stored in a non transitory computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices .

The processes or methods depicted in the preceding figures can be performed by processing logic that comprises hardware e.g. circuitry dedicated logic etc. software e.g. embodied on a non transitory computer readable medium or a combination of both. Although the processes or methods are described above in terms of some sequential operations it should be appreciated that some of the operations described can be performed in a different order. Moreover some operations can be performed in parallel rather than sequentially.

Embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages can be used to implement the teachings of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

In the foregoing Specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications can be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. The Specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

