---

title: Managing mobile execution environments
abstract: In some implementations, a method includes receiving, by a mobile device, a request to switch from a first mobile execution environment to a second mobile execution environment. The first mobile execution environment runs on a same operating system, and the second execution environment runs on the same operating system. In response to the request, the mobile device switches from the first mobile execution environment to the second execution environment, wherein the second mobile execution environment has at least one of a different control policy or a different application framework than the first mobile execution environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063792&OS=09063792&RS=09063792
owner: Entrata Systems, Inc.
number: 09063792
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120418
---
This invention relates to mobile devices and more particularly to managing mobile execution environments.

Services over the Internet cable satellite and broadcast continues to improve every day. Users may also have access to other services such as maps shopping links images eBook Social Networks Gaming Banking Medical Health Care blogs local search television guides on demand video satellite images group discussions hosted content and e mail. While many of the services are free to users a user may only access these services using hardware manufactured by the service provider.

In some implementations a method includes receiving by a mobile device a request to switch from a first mobile execution environment to a second mobile execution environment. The first mobile execution environment runs on a same operating system and the second execution environment runs on the same operating system. In response to the request the mobile device switches from the first mobile execution environment to the second execution environment wherein the second mobile execution environment has at least one of a different control policy or a different application framework than the first mobile execution environment.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

At a high level the system includes an MEE server user devices and mobile service providers coupled through a network . The MEE server is an electronic device operable to download install remove update or otherwise manage MEEs for the user devices . The server includes memory and a processor . The memory stores MEEs for enabling different execution environments on the user devices . The processor includes a request engine configured to receive requests for MEEs from the user devices and install the requested MEEs on the user devices . The user devices are electronic devices owned operated or otherwise associated with an individual and operable to receive and or transmit information in the system . The mobile service providers provide services to user devices executing associated MEEs. At a high level of operation the request engine receives a request for an MEE from a user device . The request engine verifies can be based on MEE subscription that the user device may download the requested MEE and downloads the requested MEE to the user device . The user device installs the MEE and when executing the installed MEE is configured to access services from a corresponding mobile service provider . In some instances the request engine may update installed MEEs and or remove installed MEEs in response to one or more events. While the illustrated implementation includes the single server system may include any number of servers communicably coupled to the network . For example the system may include a server for generating MEEs and a server for downloading MEEs .

The MEE server comprises an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process and store data associated with system . System can be implemented using computers other than servers as well as a server pool. Indeed the MEE server may be any computer electronic or processing device such as for example a blade server general purpose personal computer PC Macintosh workstation Unix based computer or any other suitable device. In other words system may include computers other than general purpose computers as well as computers without conventional operating systems. The MEE server may be adapted to execute any operating system including Linux UNIX Windows Server Android or any other suitable operating system. In certain implementations the MEE server may also include or be communicably coupled with a web server and or a mail server.

The MEE server includes memory and a processor . Memory may be a local memory and include any memory or database module and may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component. In the illustrated implementation memory includes the MEEs . Local memory may also include any other appropriate data such as applications or services firewall policies a security or access log print or other reporting files HTML files or templates data classes or object interfaces child software applications or sub systems and others.

As previously mentioned the MEE is a layer that defines an execution environment for applications and a set of rules that applications follow to run on MCE devices. These set of rules may include one or more of the following security properties of applications controlling which resources are available to applications from underlying hardware and or operating system and or from other applications and services running inside the MCE access to device resources such as storage sensors and others inter applications Application Program Interfaces APIs access to window graphical subsystem of the device and others. The MEE may also provide functionality to manage applications that include downloading installing and or removing applications from a cloud based store repository. The MEE may also include additional services for applications such as an advertisement framework. In some implementations the MEE includes a control policy and an application framework. The control policy may include controlling purchase and download of new Apps which Apps will be available for user access to internet ability to switch between different users time and duration of execution etc. In some instances the application framework may be a reusable software platform used to develop applications products and or solutions. The application framework may include at least one of programs compilers code libraries an application programming interface API or tool sets that combine different components to enable development of a project or solution. For example the application framework may include one or more of the following an activity manager a window manager content providers view system package manager telephony manager resource manager location manager notification manager payment manager advertisement manager or others. In some implementations each MEE may be associated with a different mobile service provider and be configured to access services from the service provider e.g. Medical Healthcare Banking Gaming Social Networking provider MEEs may have application frameworks specific to their services.

Processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform operations of the MEE server . Although illustrates a single processor in the MEE server multiple processors may be used according to particular needs and reference to processor is meant to include multiple processors where applicable. In the illustrated implementation the processor executes the request engine at any appropriate time such as for example in response to a request or input from the content provider or any appropriate computer system coupled with network . Request engine includes any software hardware and or firmware or combination thereof operable to download MEEs to the user devices . In the case of selecting an MEE the request engine may receive information from a user device identifying a content provider identify one or more MEEs associated with the request and transmit the MEE to the user device for installation. In addition to downloading the MEEs the request engine may receive updates to an MEE from a mobile service provider identify user devices executing the MEE and transmit the updates to the identified user devices . In some implementations the request engine may uninstall an MEE from a user device in response to at least an event. The event may include a request from the mobile service provider expiration of a time period or others.

Regardless of the particular implementation software as used herein may include software firmware wired or programmed hardware or any combination thereof as appropriate. Indeed request engine may be written or described in any appropriate computer language including C C C Java J Visual Basic assembler Perl any suitable version of 4GL as well as others. It will be understood that while request engine is illustrated in as including individual modules request engine may include numerous other sub modules or may instead be a single multi tasked module that implements the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes. Further while illustrated as internal to server one or more processes associated with request engine may be stored referenced or executed remotely. Moreover request engine may be a child or sub module of another software module or enterprise application not illustrated without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

The MEE server also includes interface for communicating with other computer systems such as the user devices and the mobile service providers over network in a client server or other distributed environment. In certain implementations the MEE server receives data from internal or external senders through interface for storage in local memory and or processing by processor . Generally interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with network . More specifically interface may comprise software supporting one or more communications protocols associated with communications network or hardware operable to communicate physical signals.

Mobile service providers comprise various entities that serve network based services such as Banking Shopping eBooks publishers Gaming Social networking content and or services providers Voice and Video Telephony video content etc. Specifically each mobile service provider may employ operate own control lease or otherwise be associated with an electronic device e.g. computing device that receives transmits processes or stores such content e.g. video for use by distributed users. For example the mobile service provider may be a television studio movie studio or an entity that operates on behalf of the studio such as a distributor a data warehouse an online video site e.g. Netflix YouTube and or any other suitable domain or web server. In addition or alternatively the mobile service provider may provide access to services associated with gaming finance medical and or other fields. In some examples the mobile service provider may be a financial institution such as a bank. In some examples the mobile service provider may be a medical institution such as a doctor s office or a hospital. In some examples the content provider could be a video game company. Regardless of the particular entity the mobile service provider may comprise a web server a data warehouse or any other computer device for providing services through the network . Another example is to provide additional services through a specialized AppStore MarketPlace application that will allow to download only Apps that are approved by the MEE service provider. Examples of such services may include but is not limited to managing MEE for kids provide secure access to payment systems included into MEE by limiting that only approved applications can be installed secure access to medical records etc. To do that service provider may decide to host an Application store on network and pre install a specialized AppStore MarketPlace App on its MEE. Network facilitates wireless or wired communication between MEE server and any other local or remote computer such as user devices . For example the network may be a cable network satellite network IPTV network the Internet an enterprise network and or other networks. In some implementations the network may be all or a portion of an enterprise or secured network. While illustrated as single network network may be a continuous network logically divided into various sub nets or virtual networks without departing from the scope of this disclosure so long as at least a portion of network may facilitate communications of services and client data between the MEE server the mobile service providers and the user devices . In some implementations network encompasses any internal or external network networks sub network or combination thereof operable to facilitate communications between various computing components in system . Network may communicate for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and other suitable information between network addresses. Network may include one or more local area networks LANs radio access networks RANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs all or a portion of the global computer network known as the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations.

Each user devices comprises an electronic device operable to interface the network . As used in this disclosure the user device is intended to encompass tablet computers e.g. iPad UMPCs setup box entertainment centers TV cellular phones e.g. iPhone data phones pagers portable computers SIP phones smart phones personal data assistants PDAs digital cameras MP3 players camcorders one or more processors within these or other devices or any other suitable processing devices capable of communicating information with the network . In some implementations the user devices may be based on cellular radio technology. For example the user device may be a PDA operable to wirelessly connect with an external or unsecured network. In another example the user device may comprise a digital multimedia player that includes an input device such as a keypad a jog wheel a jog dial touch screen or other device that can accept information or allows selection of user interface elements and an output device that conveys information associated with the system including digital data visual information or a Graphical User Interface GUI .

The GUI comprises a graphical user interface operable to allow the user of the device to interface with at least a portion of the system for any suitable purpose such as viewing multimedia. Generally the GUI provides the particular user with an efficient and user friendly presentation of data provided by or communicated within the system . The GUI may comprise a plurality of customizable frames or views having interactive fields pull down lists and or buttons operated by the user. The term graphical user interface may be used in the singular or in the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. The GUI can include any graphical user interface such as a generic web browser or touch screen which processes information in the system and presents the results to the user. The MEE server can accept data from the device using for example from App running on a device or the web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox and return the appropriate responses e.g. HTML or XML to the App or browser using the network .

The third party application vendors publish applications through the MEE vendors to sell to mobile devices such as mobile device . In some implementations the third party application vendors internally develop the published applications and may provide cloud services in connection with the applications. Each MEE vendor may include an application store configured to sell applications directly to the mobile device and cloud service . Alternatively MEE vendor may share application store with other MEE vendors.

In one aspect of operation the mobile device transmits requests to the MEE Server for the MEEs and . If not already installed the MEE Server may initially install the local MEE manager on the mobile device . After installation the MEE Server downloads the MEE and to the mobile device . The local MEE manager may assist in installing the MEE and . As previously mentioned both the MEE and run on the same operating system and are configured to access services from the MEE vendors and respectively. The third party application vendors publish applications on the MEE vendors and for purchase by the mobile device . A user accessing the MEE may purchase applications from the application store and access cloud services from the cloud service and a user accessing the MEE may purchase applications from the application store and access cloud services from the cloud service . The applications may represent applications purchased from the MEE vendors .

A mobile system including this architecture may be capable of providing different system functions and or services for each user. The different functions and or services can be presented as two associations 1 mobile device having multiple systems with each of the systems being identified with its own system ID and 2 user being identified with a system ID a user ID user resources and user properties. In the illustrated example the mobile device has two systems installed i.e. MEE and and three users are created Use User and User . User and User use MEE and User uses MEE . Each user has its own applications installed that may not be visible to other users.

In the case of the application the MCE vendor creates an application that can be published in different application stores application markets to promote its product. The MEE may or may not be stored in the MEE Server Cloud. The user downloads the MCE vendor application that is configured to install an MEE. If MEE is not stored in the MEE Server Cloud the MCE Vendor application downloads the new MEE to its own repository. The MCE vendor application sends a request to the MEE Manager application to install the new MEE. The request may contain or otherwise identify information about the MEE and will indicate whether to download the MEE from the MEE Server Cloud or if the MEE has already been downloaded by the MCE Vendor application. The MEE Manager application sends a request to the MEE Manager subsystem to unpack and install the new MEE. The MEE Manager subsystem creates a new real directory to store the MEE and responds with a status of this operation to the MEE Manager application. At this point the MEE is available on device and new users can be created based on this MEE. The MEE Manager application responds with a status of this operation to the MCE Vendor application.

As illustrated the system includes a VMD service provider communicably coupled to the mobile device through the network . The VMD service provider includes an MEE repository a VMDS broker and a VMD manager . The VMDS broker may include a software component running within boundaries of the VMD service provider and responsible for publishing available MEEs to the mobile device . The VMD manager may include a software component running within boundaries of the VMD service provider that is responsible for managing MEEs on the mobile device . The mobile device includes the VDM the virtual storage and the temporary storage . The VDM can include a software component running on the mobile device .

In particular the system includes the mobile device communicably couple to the VMD service provider and the enterprise data center . The mobile device includes the VDM the virtual storage and the temporary storage . The VMD service provider includes the MEE repository the VMDS broker and the VMD manager . The enterprise data center includes the EMEE repository . During user profile creation the system may execute one or more of the following indicate in a user profile that the MEE is an EMEE and refer to an enterprise URL the VDM verifies with the VMDS broker that the enterprise is valid create user data and EMEE directories that are empty. When switching to the EMEE user profile the VDM may execute one or more of the following establish a secure connection to the enterprise download user data and EMEE binaries switch to the user profile and or others. When logging out or switching to another user profile the VDM may execute one or more of the following establish a secure connection to the enterprise archive user data backup archived user data to EMEE repository switch to another user profile and or others.

A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the method claims may be analogous written as a computer program product using the following encoded on a tangible non transitory storage medium the product comprising computer readable instructions for causing one or more processors to perform operations comprising. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

