---

title: Reduced data transfer during processor context switching
abstract: Data transfer during processor context switching is reduced, particularly in relation to a time-sharing microtasking programming model. Prior to switching context of a processor having local memory from a first to a second process, a portion of the local memory that does not require transfer to system memory for proper saving of data associated with the first process is determined. The context of the processor is then switched from the first to the second process, including transferring all of the local memory as the data associated with the first process, to system memory—except for the portion of the local memory that has been determined as not requiring saving to the system memory for proper saving of the data associated with the first process. Therefore, switching the context from the first to the second process results in a reduction of data transferred from the local memory to the system memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08769547&OS=08769547&RS=08769547
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08769547
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120731
---
The present patent application is a continuation of the patent application having the Ser. No. 12 172 253 filed on Jul. 13 2008 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 266 627 on Sep. 11 2012 and which itself is a continuation of the patent application having the Ser. No. 11 353 288 filed on Feb. 11 2006 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 994 on Sep. 18 2012.

The present invention relates generally to a time sharing microtasking programming model for process execution on processors and more particularly to context switching of a processor between a first process and a second process such that reduced data transfer is achieved.

Multi tasking computing systems allow a single processor to execute many different tasks. The context of a processor refers to the current process that the processor is executing including the data stored in local memory of or for the process that is associated with the process in question. Such local memory is typically on die with the processor and is that which is used by the processor to execute a process. When a processor switches contexts this means that the processor is switching from execution of one process to execution of another process.

When a processor switches contexts from a first process to a second process the data stored in the local memory for the processor and that is associated with the first process has to be saved to other memory typically system memory for the computing system as a whole. The data stored in the system memory that is associated with the second process is then transferred to the local memory so that the second process can be executed by the processor appropriately. In general the portion of the process to be executed by the processor and the data for that portion have to be able to fit into the local memory for the processor.

In some types of systems a programmer is able to explicitly control the transfer of the local memory to the system memory when a processor switches contexts. However this can place an undue burden on the programmer. For instance typically a computer program is made up of a number of processes that may be able to be executed in parallel on multiple processors of a given system. As a result the programmer has to keep track of when to switch contexts and more significantly what local memories of which processors to save or transfer back to system memory during such context switching.

The present invention relates to reduced data transfer during processor context switching particularly in relation to a time sharing microtasking programming model. A computer implemented method of one embodiment of the invention performs the following. Prior to switching context of a processor having local memory from a first process to a second process the method determines a portion of the local memory that does not require transfer to system memory for proper saving of data associated with the first process to system memory. The method then switches the context of the processor from the first process to the second process. This includes transferring all of the local memory as the data associated with the first process to system memory but except for the portion of the local memory that has been determined as not requiring saving to the system memory for proper saving of the data associated with the first process to the system memory. Therefore switching the context of the processor from the first to the second process results in a reduction of data transferred from the local memory of the processor to the system memory.

A system of an embodiment of the invention includes one or more processors local memory for each of the processors system memory shared by all of the processors a number of processes executed by the processors in accordance with a time sharing microtasking programming model and a scheduling mechanism. A process is executed by one of the processors and data needed and used by this process has a size less than the local memory of that processor. The scheduling mechanism is to schedule execution of the processes on the processors. Switching execution on a processor from a first process to a second process results in transfer of all of the local memory of the processor as the data associated with the first process to system memory except for a portion of the local memory that does not require transfer for proper saving of the data associated with the first process to the system memory.

An article of manufacture of an embodiment of the invention includes a tangible computer readable medium and means in the medium. The tangible medium may be a recordable data storage medium or another type of tangible computer readable medium. The means may be implemented as a computer program for instance. The means is for switching the context of a processor having local memory from a first process to a second process. This includes transferring all of the local memory as the data associated with the first processor to system memory except for a portion of the local memory that is not required to be saved to the system memory for proper saving of the data associated with the first process to the system memory.

Embodiments of the invention provide for advantages over the prior art. Like the prior art a programmer in accordance with the present invention can use a time sharing microtasking programming model to implement a computer program over a number of processes so that the programmer does not have to concern him or herself with the transfer of local memory to system memory and vice versa during context switching. However unlike the prior art during context switching not necessarily all of the local memory is transferred to system memory. Rather just the part of the local memory that is needed to properly save the data associated with the process currently being executed by the processor in question is transferred to system memory. Stated another way the portion of local memory that is not required to be saved to system memory for proper saving of the data associated with the process currently being executed by the processor is not transferred to system memory.

As such embodiments of the invention result in increased performance when employing the time sharing microtasking programming model. A programmer still does not have to concern him or herself with transferring local memory to system memory and vice versa during context switching. At the same time however local memory is transferred intelligently to system memory and vice versa so that just the data stored in the local memory is actually transferred to the system memory and vice versa to improve performance.

That is embodiments of the invention employ a time sharing microtasking programming model to alleviate burdens on the programmer. In such a programming model each time a processor switches contexts the data associated with the switching from process is automatically transferred from local memory for the processor to system memory and the data associated with the switching to process is automatically transferred from the system memory to the local memory. As such the programmer does not have concern him or herself with programming explicit instructions to control transfer of the data associated with a process to and from the local memory of a given processor. Still other advantages aspects and embodiments of the invention will become apparent by reading the detailed description that follows and by referring to the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

On the die is implemented a number of processors A B . . . N collectively referred to as the processors . Because the processors are implemented on the same die or chip they may be referred to as processor cores. While the processors are shown in the embodiment of as being implemented on the same die or chip in another embodiment they may each be implemented on a separate die or chip. Furthermore embodiments of the invention are amenable to implementation where there is just a single processor.

The processors have corresponding local memory A B . . . N collectively referred to as the local memory . The local memory for a given processor is directly accessible only by that processor and not by the other processors directly. The local memory may be level two L2 memory such as cache memory or it may be non cache memory.

The local memory have corresponding memory controllers A B . . . N collectively referred to as the controllers . The controllers may be direct memory access DMA controllers. The purpose of the controllers is to transfer contents of their corresponding local memory to the system memory via the bus and vice versa. A shorthand notation is used herein where it is said that local memory is transferred to system memory or that system memory is transferred to local memory. As can be appreciated by those of ordinary skill within the art this is understood to mean that the contents of the local memory in question are transferred to system memory or that the contents of the system memory are transferred to the local memory in question.

The system memory is shared by all the processors and preferably is not part of the same dies or chips that contain the processors . In general the system memory is larger in size than each of the local memory . However while the processors can directly and quickly access their corresponding local memory the same is not true of the system memory . That is the processors can only indirectly and more slowly access the system memory via their controllers copying the system memory to their local memory using the bus . The system memory is thus slower than the local memory .

The processes may be part of the same or different computer program. Each of the processes includes computer code as well as data stored in the system memory . A given of the processors can execute one of the processes at any given time. The scheduling mechanism which may be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware schedules which of the processes are to be executed by which of the processors at various times.

When a given processor is to switch execution from a first process to a second process it is said to switch context. That is it switches context from the first process s context to the second process s context. The computer code and the data of the first process are transferred from the local memory of the processor to the system memory . Then the code and the data of the second process are transferred from the system memory to the local memory. Thereafter the processor can begin executing the second process as appropriate.

Within the prior art all the portions and of the local memory A are transferred to the system memory when switching context for the processor A. However embodiments of the invention intelligently switch context for the processor A. Therefore it is recognized that the constant data portion does not need to be transferred to the system memory because the data has not changed in this portion since being transferred from the system memory . Likewise it is recognized that the unused data portion does not need to be transferred to the system memory since it is not used by the process in question being executed.

As a result embodiments of the invention only transfer the changed data portion of the local memory A to the system memory when switching context for the process in question and do not transfer the other portions and of the local memory A. Because less of the local memory A is transferred to the system memory during context switching overall system performance improves. Methods and manners by which portions of the local memory A not to be transferred to the system memory are identified are now discussed and described.

First shows a method of the general process followed for context switching according to an embodiment of the invention. The method is described in relation to a first process and a second processor to be executed by a processor having local memory. The context of the processor is the process context that is currently or is to be executed by the processor. For instance the context of the first process is the context of the processor when the processor is currently executing or is to execute the first process. Likewise the context of the second process is the context of the processor when the processor is currently executing or is to execute the second process.

Therefore the processor begins by executing the first process . At some point it is decided that the processor should instead execute the second process. This decision may be made by the scheduling mechanism of for instance.

As a result it is determine the portion of the local memory of the processor that does not require transfer to system memory for proper saving of the data associated with the first process to the system memory . Proper saving in this regard means that all the data that needs to be saved for the first process to system memory so that such data can be later retransferred back to the local memory of the same or different processor for continued execution of the first process is indeed transferred to the system memory. For example in the example of this would be the changed data portion and not the portions and of the local memory A.

Determining the portion of local memory of the process that does not require transfer to system memory for proper saving of the data associated with the first process to the system memory may be accomplished by the processor automatically during context switching. Different ways by which this portion of local memory is determined are described in detail later in the detailed description. Other mechanisms and or components of the system in addition to the processor in question may further make this determination in various embodiments of the invention.

Thereafter the processor switches context from the first process to the second process . Context switching as has been described includes transferring all of the local memory as the data associated with the first process to the system memory except for the portion of the local memory that has been determined as not requiring saving to the system memory for proper saving of the data associated with the first process to the system memory. The second process s context is then transferred from the system memory to the local memory. The processor can finally execute the second process .

In some embodiments the present invention is intended for a computer program that uses a library to perform inter process communication. In such situations an application programming interface API may be called by a process to specify the portion of the local memory that does not need to be transferred to system memory when switching context. Such and other embodiments of the invention may employ a message passing interface MPI to provide for communication among the processes although this is not required by all embodiments of the invention.

That is at least some of the embodiments described below are in relation to a sender process calling an MPI to send data to a receiver process calling the MPI where the receiver process receives the data. Therefore the context switches between the sender process and the receiver process. The issue then is determining which of the local memory does not have to be transferred to the system memory and vice versa when context switching in such a situation occurs.

In one embodiment the portion of the local memory that is not required to be transferred to system memory when switching context is determined as that which is always not being used by the process in question. That is the process may need only a portion of the local memory in order to be executed. The other portion of the local memory therefore is never needed by the process and therefore this is the portion that is not required to be transferred to system memory when switching context.

For example within the specification of the MPI there may be a receive buffer area for a receiver process. It may be assumed that a process which has called a message receive function enters a halt state in order to wait for data transmission from the sender process and context saving is performed in relation to this. At that time a memory area which is provided to this function in question acts as a receive buffer and is that which is overwritten by received data. Therefore the data in this area does not have to be saved or restored during context switching.

In another embodiment the portion of the local memory that is not required to be transferred to system memory when switching context is determined as that which has not changed since being transferred from the system memory earlier and thus is otherwise constant. That is the process may when having its context switched to the processor have had certain data moved from the system memory to the local memory. During execution of the process this data may not have been modified. Therefore the data as stored in the local memory does not need to be transferred back to the system memory during context switching away from this process.

For example send and receive buffers can be employed in relation to the embodiment employing MPI. To perform inter process communication in general it may be needed that a sender process writes data temporarily to a communication buffer area within the system memory and a receiver process reads therefrom. For instance during the time after the data is transferred to the communication buffer within the system memory via DMA the contents of this memory area already exists in the system memory. Therefore there is no need to store these contents again within the system memory during context switching. Similarly after the receiver process actually transfers the data from the system memory to the local memory even if context switching is performed the same data exists in both the local memory and the system memory. Therefore there is no need to transfer this data again during context switching.

In another embodiment the portion of the local memory that is not required to be transferred to system memory when switching context is determined as that which is not temporarily being used. This situation is different than the earlier embodiment as a portion of local memory that will always not being used. Here for the current execution of the process in question it can be known that a certain portion of the local memory is not being used such that this portion does not need to be transferred to system memory. However subsequent execution of the process may utilize this portion of the local memory so the non transfer of this portion of memory is not subsequently guaranteed.

For example there may be a stack area or the like within the local memory during context switching. During the period of time until the process in question is saved next time after the process is restored by a subsequent context switch with respect to the data that is not accessed during this time period such data can be omitted during the most immediate context switch. For instance when it is known that a number of context switches take place in a given function through static analysis at the time of compiling the program through profiling and so on it suffices that a stack frame for all functions corresponding to an ancestor of the function may be saved at the first context switching and restored at the last context switching. During intermediate context switching the transfer of this stack frame is unnecessary. Unused local variables may further not need to be saved back to system memory or restored back from system memory.

Furthermore in addition to the reduction of transfer of local memory to system memory at the time of context scheduling a scheduling of a process can result in the reduction of the transfer of the local memory. That is when data is shared among processes before and after a context switch the data transfer subsequent to the context switch may be omitted in some cases by leaving the data which was in the local memory before the context switch there during and after the context switch. For instance when the data which is transmitted by a current process is to be received by the next performed process within the same processor core transmitted and received data may remain in the local memory and need not be transferred to or from the system memory during the context switching process.

Therefore in one embodiment the amount of data transferred from local memory to system memory during context transfer is reduced by discriminating a memory area where omission of such transfer is achieved by using an argument of an API call on the basis of knowledge of the semantics of the communications library API at the time of the context switch. This is now described in relation to exemplary computer program code to receive data 

It is presumed that after performing the call MPI Irecv which is an MPI call to receive data the data from the sender process is not yet received at the time of the MPI Wait call which is an MPI to halt the current calling process. Therefore a context switch occurs. At this time a memory area from the address buf to the address buf size is specified as a receiving buffer in the MPI Irecv and is overwritten by received data after the process is next resumed. Specifically since the data in this area at the time of performing the MPI Irecv is not going to be used in the future during the period after performing the MPI Irecv and before actual data transfer the data in this area need not be saved even when switching context. Furthermore when the context of this process is next read the data in this area need not be restored i.e. transferred back to local memory from system memory . During the period after the completion of the actual data transfer until MPI Wait with respect to the data in this area the same data is retained within the communication buffer of the system memory such that saving the context i.e. transferring the local memory to the system memory is unnecessary.

In another embodiment the amount of data transferred from local memory to system memory during an immediate context transfer is reduced by determining the portion of the local memory that does not require transfer to the system memory until later context switching. That is such data is not transferred during the period until another later context switch occurs and such data may be determined by static analysis of the computer program code of a process. This is now described in relation to the following exemplary computer program code 

This computer program code assumes that it is known before execution by using static analysis that context switches occur at two MPI Wait calls within the communicate function. In this situation a stack frame of a main function is essentially unnecessary between the first and second context switches. For this reason when returning from the first context switch and when saving data within the second context switch the stack frame of the main function does not need to be transferred.

However this optimization may not be applied in the case where there is access to the stack frame of the main function via some pointer. Otherwise it may be possible that at this entrance of the communicate function the stack frame of the main function is saved to system memory and the saving of this portion of local memory is omitted during the first context switch. This approach is more effective since the transfer function is hidden within the communicate function.

Furthermore saving and restoring of unnecessary data other than the stack frame can be omitted. In the extreme situation where the first MPI Wait and the second MPI Irecv are performed consecutively such that there is no code in between it suffices that only the extremely limited data such as text data are transferred upon returning from the context switch in the first MPI Wait. Additionally within the communicate function local variables other than the variable result are never used after the second context switch. Therefore these other local variables as stored in the local memory do not need to be transferred to system memory during the second context switch nor do they need to be restored thereafter.

In another embodiment the amount of data transferred from local memory to system memory during context transfer is reduced by determining the portion of the local memory that is shared between the process being switched from and the process being switched to. That is data that is shared between these two processes may remain in the local memory and does not need to be transferred to or from system memory during context switching from the first such process to the second such process. shows such an example of reducing the amount of data transferred from local memory to system memory during context switching according to an embodiment of the invention. In particular the left column shows the case where such shared data is still transferred back to and from system memory during context switching whereas the right column shows the inventive case where such shared data is not transferred back to and from system memory during context switching.

It is assumed that the sender process executes synchronous transmission of data via MPI Isend and the receiver process is now at a halt state waiting for reception but ultimately receives the data. Therefore in order to execute the synchronous transmission of data when the sender process temporarily enters into the halt state and the context is switched to the receiver process this transmitted data is shared by both processes. As a result retransfer of the data from local memory to system memory and then from the system memory to the local memory is unnecessary. That is in comparing the left column and the right column it is apparent that the same result is achieved even though data transfer back to system memory does not occur in the right column . Therefore this means that the right column provides for better system performance while still achieving the same functionality as the left column .

It is noted that although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This application is thus intended to cover any adaptations or variations of embodiments of the present invention. Therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and equivalents thereof.

