---

title: System and method for native application control of HTML5 content
abstract: A method and system configured to use HTML5 layout for rendering a native downloaded graphical user interface is disclosed herein. The system is comprised of a mobile device, a native downloadable application, a mobile web services API, a native application authoring tool, and an HTML5 authoring tool. The HTML5 authoring tool is used to create an application layout conformant with the HTML5 standards and practices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843847&OS=08843847&RS=08843847
owner: Joingo, LLC
number: 08843847
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121226
---
The Present Application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 676 984 filed on Jul. 29 2012.

The present invention generally relates to mobile applications. More specifically the present invention relates to a method and system to use HTML5 layout for rendering native downloaded graphical user interface.

The iPHONE mobile phone from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. has an iOS platform. An app developer wishing to develop a mobile application for an iPHONE mobile phone must create the mobile application using an iOS platform. An app developer needs a MACINTOSH computer running SNOW LEOPARD operating system. The app developer also needs to become a registered IOS developer before being able to download the iOS software development kit SDK . The app developer also needs to download the XCODE integrated development environment IDE . The app developer will also use the COCOA TOUCH application environment. Also the mobile app must be certified by Apple.

If the app developer wishes to have that mobile application available for an ANDROID phone then the app developer must create a new mobile application using an ANDROID operating platform. The app developer will need a JAVA development kit JDK ECLIPSE IDE the ANDROID SDK and the ANDROID development tools plug in.

Some of the differences between just these two platforms include multitasking widgets application market restrictions Apple must certify all iOS apps notifications multiple hardware devices only Apple devices use the iOS platform editable ROMS the iPHONE mobile phone has a read only memory and setting changes.

Thus it is impossible for an application coded for an iOS platform to be used on an ANDROID platform.

Code Division Multiple Access CDMA is a spread spectrum communication system used in second generation and third generation cellular networks and is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307.

Interactive voice response IVR is a telephone technology in which a user uses a phone to interact with a database to acquire information.

Short Message Service SMS is text messaging communication using a mobile phone or other device to send messages up to 160 characters in length.

Multimedia messaging service MMS communication is a communication transmitted to and from a mobile phone that includes a multimedia content such as a digital photograph JPEG videos and the like.

A SMS Gateway is used to send text messages with or without a mobile phone and is used by aggregators to forward text messages to mobile phones.

BLUETOOTH technology is a standard short range radio link that operates in the unlicensed 2.4 gigaHertz band.

Public Switch Telephone Network PSTN is a telecommunication system in which networks are inter connected to allow telephones to communicate with each other throughout the world.

Telephone Consumer Protection Act TCPA of 1991 restricts the use of SMS text messages received by mobile phones and SMS messages sent without a consumer s consent can violate the TCPA.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP is a set of conventions for controlling the transfer of information via the Internet from a web server computer to a client computer and also from a client computer to a web server.

Internet is the worldwide decentralized totality of server computers and data transmission paths which can supply information to a connected and browser equipped client computer and can receive and forward information entered from the client computer.

FTP or File Transfer Protocol is a protocol for moving files over the Internet from one computer to another.

Short message peer to peer SMPP is a telecommunications protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities.

A SMS aggregator is an entity that provides connectivity with a mobile phone carrier by offering a SMS gateway to send and receive messages and other digital content.

Application Programming Interface API is a collection of computer software code usually a set of class definitions that can perform a set of related complex tasks but has a limited set of controls that may be manipulated by other software code entities. The set of controls is deliberately limited for the sake of clarity and ease of use so that programmers do not have to work with the detail contained within the given API itself.

Direct Inward Dialing DID involves a carrier providing one or more trunk lines to a customer for connection to the customer s private branch exchange PBX and a range of telephone lines are allocated to this line.

Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP relates to communications transmitted over the Internet such as SKYPE.

HyperText Markup Language HTML is a method of mixing text and other content with layout and appearance commands in a file so that a browser can generate a display from the file.

JavaScript is an object based programming language. JavaScript is an interpreted language not a compiled language. JavaScript is generally designed for writing software routines that operate within a client computer on the Internet.

XHTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language is a language for describing the content of hypertext documents intended to be viewed or read in a browser.

User Interface or UI is the junction between a user and a computer program. An interface is a set of commands or menus through which a user communicates with a program. A command driven interface is one in which the user enter commands. A menu driven interface is one in which the user selects command choices from various menus displayed on the screen.

Web Browser is a complex software program resident in a client computer that is capable of loading and displaying text and images and exhibiting behaviors as encoded in HTML HyperText Markup Language from the Internet and also from the client computer s memory. Major browsers include MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER NETSCAPE APPLE SAFARI MOZILLA FIREFOX and OPERA.

Web Server is a computer able to simultaneously manage many Internet information exchange processes at the same time. Normally server computers are more powerful than client computers and are administratively and or geographically centralized. An interactive form information collection process generally is controlled from a server computer to which the sponsor of the process has access.

CRM Customer Relationship Management is a widely implemented strategy for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. CRM involves using technology to organize automate and synchronize business processes and the like principally sales activities but also business processes and the like for marketing customer service and technical support.

Wireless Application Protocol WAP is an open global specification that empowers users with mobile wireless communication devices such as mobile phones to easily access data and to interact with Websites over the Internet through such mobile wireless communication device. WAP works with most wireless communication networks such as CDPD CDMA GSM PDC PHS TDMA FLEX reflex iDEN TETRA DECT DataTAC Mobitex and GRPS. WAP can be built on most operating systems including PalmOS WINDOWS CE FLEXOS OS 9 JavaOS and others.

WAP Push is defined as an encoded WAP content message delivered pushed to a mobile communication device which includes a link to a WAP address.

The present invention is a method and system configured to use HTML5 layout for rendering native downloaded graphical user interface. The system is comprised of a mobile device a native downloadable application a mobile web services API a native application authoring tool and an HTML5 authoring tool. The HTML5 authoring tool is used to create an application layout conformant with the HTML5 standards and practices. The native application authoring tool is used to develop the native application and include the HTML5 layout as a resource file in the process of building the native application whereby the HTML5 is embedded into the native application and will be downloaded as part of the native application when the end user downloads the application from an Application Store such as Apple AppStore. When the native application starts it opens a browser view and indexes the browser to the embedded HTML5 layout. As the browser view executes the HTML5 layout and requests more information possibly due to a button press the native application intercepts the request and has an option of satisfying it from the resources included in the downloaded file. If the request has been made to one of the native application features supported in the mobile web services API the request can be satisfied without going outside of the device to the network.

One aspect of the present invention is a system configured to use HTML5 layout for rendering native downloaded graphical user interface. The system includes a mobile communication device comprising a browser a native downloadable application a mobile web services API a HTML 5 authoring tool a native application authoring tool and an application site. The HTML 5 authoring tool is utilized to create an application layout conformant with HTML5 standards and practices. The native application authoring tool is utilized to develop the native downloadable application and comprises an HTML5 layout as a resource file in the process of building the native downloadable application whereby the HTML5 layout is embedded into the native downloadable application. The application site comprises at least the native downloadable application. The native downloadable application is downloadable from the application site to the mobile communication device. The native downloadable application opens a browser view and indexes the browser to the embedded HTML5 layout. The browser view is configured to execute the HTML5 layout and transmit a request for more information. The native downloadable application is configured to intercept the request and the native downloadable application is configured to satisfy the request from a plurality of resources included in a downloaded file. The request made to one of a plurality of native downloadable application features supported in the mobile web services API is satisfied without going outside of the mobile communication device to a network.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method to use HTML5 layout for rendering native downloaded graphical user interface. The method includes downloading a native downloadable application from an application site to a mobile communication device. The native downloadable application comprises an embedded HTML5 layout. A native application authoring tool utilized to develop the native downloadable application comprises the HTML5 layout as a resource file in the process of building the native downloadable application. The method also includes accessing the native downloadable application on the mobile communication device. The method also includes opening a browser view in the native downloadable application. The method also includes indexing a browser of the mobile communication device to the embedded HTML5 layout. The method also includes executing the HTML5 layout. The method also includes requesting more information in a request from the browser view. The method also includes intercepting the request from the browser view by the native downloadable application. The method also includes satisfying the request with resources included in a downloaded file. The method also includes presenting the native downloadable application content on the mobile communication device in a HTML5 layout.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a system for using an HTML5 layout for rendering native downloaded graphical user interface. The system includes a native application authoring tool at least one communication network a mobile service provider server for communications over the at least one communication network a content server and a plurality of mobile communication devices. The native application authoring tool comprises an embedded HTML5 layout. The native application authoring tool is utilized to develop the native downloadable application comprising the HTML5 layout as a resource file in the process of building the native downloadable application. The content server is in communication with the mobile service provider server. The content server comprises the at least one native downloadable application. Each of the plurality of mobile communication devices comprises a format for a mobile application content. Each of the plurality of mobile communication devices is capable of communicating over the at least one communication network. Each of the mobile communication devices comprises a browser. The native downloadable application is downloaded from the content server to each of the mobile communication devices. The native downloadable application opens a browser view and indexes the browser to the embedded HTML5 layout. The browser view executes the HTML5 layout and requests more information. The native downloadable application intercepts the request and the native downloadable application is capable of satisfying the request from a plurality of resources included in a downloaded file. A request made to one of a plurality of native downloadable application features supported in the mobile web services API is satisfied without going outside of each of the mobile communication devices to the network.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is a mobile communications device comprising a native downloadable application. The native downloadable application is downloaded from the content server to each of the mobile communication devices. The native downloadable application opens a browser view and indexes the browser to the embedded HTML5 layout. The browser view executes the HTML5 layout and requests more information. The native downloadable application intercepts the request and the native downloadable application is capable of satisfying the request from a plurality of resources included in a downloaded file. A request made to one of a plurality of native downloadable application features supported in the mobile web services API is satisfied without going outside of each of the mobile communication devices to the network.

The native application is preferably selected from an IPHONE mobile application content format an ANDROID mobile application content format and a BLACKBERRY mobile application content format. The mobile communication device is preferably a mobile phone or a tablet computer. The application site is preferably an application store comprising a plurality of downloadable application. The HTML layout preferably comprises HTML markup. The HTML layout preferably comprises associated JavaScript. The request for more information is preferably a user driven request. The request for more information is alternatively a JavaScript request.

Having briefly described the present invention the above and further objects features and advantages thereof will be recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

As shown in a system configured to use HTML5 layout for rendering native downloaded graphical user interface is generally designated . The native downloadable application is downloaded from the application site to mobile communication devices and over the Internet or over a communication network through cell towers and . The application site can be an application store like the APPLE APP STORE application site the ANDROID MARKET application store or it can be a stand alone site for downloading an application. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the application site can be other similar sites without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. The native downloadable application opens a browser view and indexes the browser to the embedded HTML5 layout. The embedded HTML5 layout preferably includes HTML5 markup and or associated JavaScript. The browser view executes the HTML5 layout and requests more information. The native downloadable application intercepts the request and the native downloadable application is capable of satisfying the request from a plurality of resources included in a downloaded file wherein a request made to one of a plurality of native downloadable application features supported in the mobile web services API is satisfied without going outside of the mobile communication device to a network.

A flow chart of a general method to use HTML5 layout for rendering native downloaded graphical user interface is shown in . At block a content rendering program is opened on a mobile communication device comprising a first format platform like an APPLE iOS or an ANDROID operating system. At block an application content is selected through the content rendering program and the application content is in a non native format. At block the application content is requested from a content server over a network. At block the application content is transmitted to the mobile communication device from the content server. The content server may be an application store such as the APPLE APP STORE application store. At block the application content is presented on the mobile communication device in a native format to the mobile communication device using the content rendering program.

As shown in a system is preferably comprised of a mobile device a native downloadable application a mobile web services API a native application authoring tool and an HTML5 authoring tool. The HTML5 authoring tool is used to create an application layout conformant with the HTML5 standards and practices. The native application authoring tool is used to develop the native application and include the HTML5 layout as a resource file in the process of building the native application whereby the HTML5 is embedded into the native application and will be downloaded as part of the native application when the end user downloads the application from an application store such as APPLE APP STORE application store.

When the native application starts the native application opens a browser view and indexes the browser to the embedded HTML5 layout. As the browser view executes the HTML5 layout and requests more information possibly due to a button press or a JavaScript request the native application intercepts the request and has an option of satisfying the request from the resources included in the downloaded file such as a cache manifest . If the request has been made to one of the native application features supported in the mobile web services API the request can be satisfied without going outside of the device to the network.

A user uses a mobile communication device such as a smartphone to connect to an application site to download an application . After downloading the application the user runs the application from the smartphone . The application opens a browser window within the native application indexing a browser of the smartphone to the embedded HTML5 layout and executes the HTML5 layout as the application s GUI. When the application requests more information from the browser the browser initially would attempt to connect to the internet however the request is intercepted by the native application and redirected to the resource file that was included with the application download. The application content is presented in an HTML5 layout.

The mobile communication device utilized with the present invention preferably include mobile phones smartphones tablet computers PDAs and the like. Examples of smartphones include the IPHONE smartphone from Apple Inc. BLACKBERRY smartphones from Research In Motion the DROID smartphone from Motorola Mobility Inc. and many more. Examples of tablet computing devices include the IPAD tablet from Apple Inc. and the XOOM tablet from Motorola Mobility Inc.

Each of the interface descriptions preferably discloses use of at least one communication protocol to establish handshaking or bi directional communications. These protocols preferably include but are not limited to XML HTTP TCP IP Serial UDP FTP Web Services WAP SMTP SMPP DTS Stored Procedures Import Export Global Positioning Triangulation IM SMS MMS GPRS and Flash. The databases used with the system preferably include but are not limited to MSSQL Access MySQL Progress Oracle DB2 Open Source DBs and others. Operating system used with the system preferably include Microsoft 2010 XP Vista 200o Server 2003 Server 2008 Server Windows Mobile Linux Android Unix I series AS 400 and Apple OS.

The underlying protocol at a server is preferably Internet Protocol Suite Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and the transmission protocol to receive a file is preferably a file transfer protocol FTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other similar protocols. The transmission protocol ranges from SIP to MGCP to FTP and beyond. The protocol at the server is preferably HTTP.

A mobile communication service provider aka phone carrier of the customer such as VERIZON AT T SPRINT T MOBILE and the like mobile communication service providers provide the communication network for communication to the data capable communication device of the customer.

A flow chart for a method is shown in . At block a user downloads an application from an application site to the user s mobile communication device such as a smartphone. Within the application is an embedded HTML5 layout and a native application authoring tool comprising the HTML5 layout as a resource file in the process of building the native downloadable application. At block the user opens or runs the application on the smartphone. The application opens a browser within the application at block and indexes a browser of the smartphone to the embedded HTML5 layout at block . At block the HTML5 layout is run and as the browser requests more information at block the application intercepts the request from the browser at block before the request is sent out to a connection such as the internet. At block the request is satisfied with the resources that were included in the download and the application content is then presented in HTML5 layout on the smartphone at block .

From the foregoing it is believed that those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize the meritorious advancement of this invention and will readily understand that while the present invention has been described in association with a preferred embodiment thereof and other embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings numerous changes modification and substitutions of equivalents may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is intended to be unlimited by the foregoing except as may appear in the following appended claim. Therefore the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined in the following appended claims.

