---

title: Digital data processing systems and methods for searching and communicating via a social network
abstract: A method for querying the collective social network on behalf of a limited group of users is described. The method consists of a system that schedules and executes searches according to a set of search objectives specified by the users. The system searches each member's social network for a connection that matches any search objective.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547876&OS=09547876&RS=09547876
owner: Lattice Engines, Inc.
number: 09547876
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120109
---
This application claims the benefit of filing of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 443 679 filed Feb. 16 2011 entitled Digital Data Processing Systems and Methods for Searching and Communicating via a Social Network the teachings of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to digital data processing systems and methods and more particularly to systems and methods for searching and facilitating communications via online social networks. It has application by way of non limited example in searching such networks a k a social networking sites on behalf of a group of users.

Social networks have emerged as a powerful tool for enabling their members to access including search and or exchange information about one another about topics of interest and so forth. One appeal is that the systems allow members to establish links or friendships etc. of varying degrees of closeness or connectedness that determine how much information one member may access about another as well as how directly they may communicate using network messaging email and other network tools.

For example an online social networking service may enable some members to message each other directly and or to view one another s postings e.g. photographs resumes etc . This is typically limited to members that are connected to the first degree e.g. members who have explicitly authorized this type of contact.

Such a online social networking service on the other hand may greatly restrict contacts and access between members who have not provided such authorization e.g. preventing members who are for all intents and purposes strangers at least so far as the online service can discern from communicating or accessing any information about one another except perhaps names brief biographies or other information explicitly designated as public.

Somewhere in between is the typical online social network s treatment of communications between members who though not directly connected at the first degree are indirectly connected via one or more intermediary members such as in the case of friend s friends i.e. members connected to the second degree friend s friend s friends i.e. third degree and so forth. Typically a networking service will permit limited access communications between members so situated depending on the degree of indirection and or will facilitate formal electronic introductions e.g. via email through the intermediary ies so that the indirectly connected members can formally authorize or block a direct connection with one another.

In connection with rules governing interactions among members based on connectedness the most successful networks have implemented privacy controls to ensure that member information and networks are protected. These include user adjustable settings governing what of their information and postings are private semi private public and so forth. These also include rules governing how third party software applications may interface with the online social networks for example what data they can retain between user sessions and so forth.

Traditionally online social networking services have provided dedicated web sites by which members access the network and services e.g. permitting members to post information and to message one another as well as to use the service s administrative tools e.g. for member sign up privacy setting adjustments and so forth. In addition many online networks provide public application programming interfaces APIs that allow third party software systems e.g. stand alone applications mobile apps etc. to provide such access and services to members in lieu of or in addition to the web sites.

Among the most popular of those tools provided by online social networks whether executed via web interface or other applications is the query. This permits members to search for other members based on name current or former company affiliation and or other criteria. Thus for example a member who is interested in gaining insight into a potential corporate customer might use a query to find out who in his or her network i.e. which of his her friends and or of their respective friends etc. work for that corporation.

Typically online social networks limit application of those queries to member records and other member information that the querying member might otherwise see in accord with the connectedness and or privacy constraints discussed above. Hence for example a query by one member on company affiliation might reveal names of other members that work for that organization and that are connected to the querying member at the first or second degree but not members who are connected if at all at higher degrees.

As is particularly germane to queries executed by separate third party software systems many of these queries can only be executed under the credentials of a particular member to ensure that the privacy considerations of the members are respected. In addition user applications mobile apps and other software systems using APIs of a online social network are typically prohibited from storing information from the social network as this may conflict with the privacy terms of the network.

While a boon to individuals and businesses alike online social networks are not without shortcomings. There are many cases where members of an online social network may share a common interest e.g. they may be part of a sales organization seeking to develop contacts for the organization but where collectively leveraging their social network connections is not feasible.

For example as discussed above typical online social networks limit the depth of query responses in accord with the network s connectedness and or privacy constraints. Thus for a network that limits members to search only to second degree connections a member can search through the links of his her friends but not through the links of his her friend s friends. Thus even if the members of a group again for example the sales organization are linked via a social network they cannot search each other s second level connections within that network because those searches would extend to third level connections and as such would violate the network s privacy rules.

A further object is to provide such systems and methods as facilitate use and or searching of online social networks.

Still another object is to provide such systems and methods as facilitate communications within online social networks.

Yet still other objects are to provide such systems and methods that facilitate the use of online social networks among members having a common interest.

The above objects are among those attained by the invention which provides in some aspects systems and methods that conduct searches and facilitate establishing communications e.g. making links or connections within a social network for a member of a group e.g. a member of a sales organization utilizing connections into that network by other members of that group. Such systems and methods advantageously permit members of an enterprise club or other group to leverage each other s respective connections in a social network thereby facilitating searches for and communications with larger numbers of prospective contacts e.g. searches among friend s friends friend s friend s friends so forth .

Aspects of the invention provide a digital data processing system for searching and or for establishing communications on an online social network. The system comprises an online social networking site such as by way of non limiting example LinkedIn Facebook etc. that includes a plurality of members and that supports searching for and or communicating with members based on degrees of connectedness vis a vis the online social networking site and that further includes an interface e.g. an API providing such searching and communicating in response to automated requests on behalf of members.

For sake of simplicity and without loss of generality the terms social network social networking site online social network and the like are used interchangeably herein to reference to online social networks. Similarly as those skilled in the art will appreciate connections are common to many social networks though the terminology they use to describe them varies. Thus for example connections on one social network may be referred to as links on another and friends on still another. The terms ties and edges are also commonly used in this regard.

The system further includes collective search functionality that responds to a request from a first member of a group who is optionally also a member of the online social network by applying to the interface on behalf of a second member of the group and of the online social network an automated request to any of i search for one or more third members of the online social network and or ii to establish communications between the first member and one or more third members where the degree of connectedness between the second and third members and between the first and third members is such that such search and or communications would not be supported by the online social networking site absent a request on behalf of the second member.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the collective search functionality searches for the one or more third members by name current or former company affiliation and or other criteria.

According to further related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the collective search functionality respects the privacy settings of the online social networking site.

According to other related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the first and third members are connected if at all by higher degrees of connectedness vis a vis the online social networking site than are first and second members.

According to other related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the first and third members are connected by second or higher degrees vis a vis the online social network and for example wherein the first and second members are connected at a first degree.

According to still other related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein said first degree connection is a direct connection and said second or higher degree connection is an indirect connection.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the collective search functionality responds to requests from one or more first members by applying to the interface on behalf of one or more second members one or more respective automated requests to any of i search for one or more third members and ii to establish communications between respective ones of the first members and respective ones of the third members where said degrees of connectedness between the respective second and third members and between the respective first and third members is such that such search and or communications would not be supported by the online social networking site absent respective requests on behalf of the respective second members.

According to other related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the first and second members form a common group e.g. an enterprise club etc.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the members of that common group are members of the online social network.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the respective first and third members are connected by second or higher degrees vis vis the online social network.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the collective search functionality aggregates prioritizes and schedules any of search and communication requests by members of the common group.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the collective search functionality generates a search queue that defines the order in which any of search and communication requests are applied to the interface on behalf of the common group.

According to still other related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the collective search functionality generates the search queue that defines the order such that group member networks are individually searched so as to equally distribute search requests among group members.

The invention provides in yet other aspects a digital data processing system e.g. as described above that includes a store comprising one or more search objectives for use in applying on searching the online social network for members. These can be for example names company affiliations and or other criteria of members of interest. Thus the collective search functionality can respond to each such search objective by or on behalf of a first member by applying to the interface on behalf of a second member an automated request to search for one or more third members meeting the specified criteria.

In other related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the store maintains search objectives for a plurality of first members.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the first and second members form a common group for whom the store maintains a plurality of search objectives. Continuing the example above the group can be for example part of a sales organization seeking to develop new clients for their firm.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the search objectives are generated from a customer relationship management system.

According to further aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the search objectives are entered by one or more first members and or by others.

According to related aspects the invention provides a system e.g. as described above wherein the collective search functionality applies search requests to the interface in an ordered fashion e.g. so as to effect a prioritization of the searches. These may be specified by one or more first and or second members and or by others.

Still other aspects of the invention provide methods corresponding to the operations described above.

Online social networks have developed on the basis of maximizing the interest of individual users who are typically provided the exclusive ability to define their respective connections to other users. In many cases the user can control a connection s ability to view his or her information or communicate with the user.

Social networks ensure privacy by limiting search capabilities and preventing a user from seeing the network through anyone else s perspective. This applies to the search functionality which typically only permits viewing the network from a single user s perspective. In order to protect privacy and the reproduction of a social graph online social network providers often prevent application developers from caching any data they receive. Therefore the current setup of social networks severely limits the ability of a group to collectively leverage one another s connections in order to assist one another and achieve common goals.

Provided herein are systems and methods overcoming those limitation by facilitating the search of contacts and the establishing of communications to assist in achieving individual and common goals particularly by enabling a group of individuals to collectively search the combined network of the group to establish communications between members of the group and individuals or entities in the resultant collective network and or to equitably balance the load of searches across members of group.

A fuller appreciation of the invention may be attained by reference to the discussion of its embodiments below and to the accompanying drawings. Those embodiments may be used in any variety of applications though for sake of simplicity and without loss of generality in one exemplary embodiment users of the systems and methods disclosed herein are sales representative dedicated to selling a product offering. Each user has individual goals of selling the products to his or her particular account and a common goal of increasing sales of the product generally.

In order to achieve individual goals and contribute to the common goal users can leverage the collective social network established by systems and methods herein i.e. the collective social network made by the union of each individual s social network. Thus in the exemplary embodiment a sales representative can search out someone in the social network that is connected to a fellow representative and for example on the basis of that connection automatically request an introduction and or engage in substantive communications in the name of that fellow member.

As discussed below in the illustrated embodiments systems and methods according to the invention effect the collective social network through operation of a software application simply referred to below as the software application constructed and operated in accord with the teachings hereof that i layers on top of a conventional online social network of the type known in the art and ii interfaces with the online network via its API or otherwise. Users are granted access to and provided verification credentials for the software application by an application administrator. All users of the software application may be treated as a single group or they may be further sub grouped based on e.g. a common goal. The software application utilizes the online social network to access the structure and elements of the social graph.

In the illustrated embodiment discussed below the users are all members of the online social network and moreover are connected to one another at a first degree within that network. In other embodiments the users may be connected at higher degrees within the network and indeed in still other embodiments some users are not be members of the network at all.

The client digital data processor is a conventional desktop computer workstation minicomputer laptop computer tablet computer PDA or other digital data processing apparatus of the type that is commercially available in the marketplace and that is suitable for operation in the illustrated system as described herein all as adapted in accord with the teachings hereof.

The server digital data processor is likewise a digital data processing apparatus of the type commercially available in the marketplace suitable for operation in the illustrated system as described herein. Though the server is typically implemented in a server class computer it may also be implemented in a desktop computer workstation laptop computer tablet computer PDA or other suitable apparatus.

Network comprises one or more networks suitable for supporting communications among and between illustrated digital data processors . Illustrated network comprises one or more public networks specifically the Internet though in other embodiments it may include instead or in addition one or more other networks of the type known in the art e.g. local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs and or Internet s .

Illustrated client computer comprises central processing memory storage and input output units and other constituent components not shown of the type conventional in the art that are configured to form software application and one or more repositories . One or more of these constituent components and or portions thereof may be absent in various embodiments of the invention and or they may be combined with one another and or integrated with still other components.

The central processing memory storage and input output units of client digital data processor may be configured to form and or may be supplemented by other elements of the type known in the art desirable or necessary to support elements in accord with the teachings hereof as well as to support other operations of the digital data processor . These can include by way of non limiting example peripheral devices such as keyboards and monitors operating systems database management systems and network interface cards and software e.g. for supporting communications between digital data processor and other devices over network .

Repositories comprise data stores of the type known in the art albeit configured in accord with the teachings hereof for storing corporate personal governmental and or other data that may be any of generated stored retrieved and otherwise processed by application . The data may be contained in tables database records database objects and so forth.

Server digital data processor comprises central processing memory storage and input output units and other constituent components not shown of the type conventional in the art that are configured in accord therewith to form and support operation of an online social network of the conventional type known in the art. This includes interfaces supporting web access access via dedicated applications and access via a pubic applications program interface API as per convention in the art. The social network can be any of a variety of popular social networks e.g. Facebook LinkedIn etc. or otherwise.

Although only a single client data processor is depicted and described here it will be appreciated that other embodiments may have greater numbers of these devices disposed near and or far from one another collocated behind one or more common firewalls or otherwise. Those other client devices may differ in architecture and operation from that shown and described here and or from each other all consistent with the teachings hereof. Moreover those client devices may share in operation of a common software application and or repositories . Alternatively or in addition they may operate and or have their own respective such application and or repositories that operate independently in coordination or otherwise with respect to one another.

Likewise although only a single server digital data processor operating a single social network is depicted and described here it will be appreciated that other embodiments may have greater numbers of these devices and or may operate greater numbers of online social networks which may be employed in parallel in seriatim or otherwise consistent with the teachings hereof.

Moreover although provided as separate elements in the illustrated embodiment in other embodiments the software application can be integrated into software defining the social network or vice versa.

Referring to the drawing there are shown elements each representing an individual or entity collectively elsewhere herein except as otherwise evident from context individuals that are members of an online social network and that are linked to one another to various degrees thereby. Thus for example member is linked by a first degree connection to member member is linked by a second degree connection to member by virtue of his her common connection with member and member represents a third degree connection of member all by way of non limiting example.

Like other conventional online social networks social network of the illustrated embodiment limits how much information if any each individual may access about another as well as whether and how they may communicate via the online network e.g. its messaging email etc. features based on that connectivity. Thus for example social network would preclude individual from searching or communicating with individual because they are separated by more than one or two degrees.

The software application overcomes this by providing for a limited group of individuals here represented by members a k a User A User B User C and User M who may be for example fellow sales representatives of a company collective search functionality and more generally for whom it effects a collective social network thereby permitting members of the limited group to leverage each other s respective connections in the online social network thereby facilitating searches for and communications with larger numbers of prospective contacts e.g. searches among friend s friends friend s friend s friends so forth . Although the software application discussed here supports such searching and communication for individuals other embodiments support such activities for other entities e.g. corporations etc. .

That collective network is a union of each member of the limited group e.g. the sales reps and his or her connections at a second degree. Thus in the illustrated embodiment the collective social network includes the members of the limited group the direct or first degree connections of each of the members of the limited group of users and the direct or first degree connections of each of the connections of the members of the limited group of users. Of course this is by way of an example that assumes the social network limits access including search beyond more than one degree. If that network imposed such a limit beyond the second degree the collective social network effected by the software application would include the members of the limited group the first and second degree connections of each of the members of the limited group of users and the first and second degree connections of each of the connections of the members of the limited group of users. And so forth.

Illustrated software application includes administrator repository user repository search objective repository search queue and notification engine all interconnected for communications as indicated in the drawing some or all of which are referred to above generally as repository .

Repositories reflect credentials of administrators and users respectively vis a software application and social network . This can include login credentials access privileges email SMS contact information and so forth. These and the other illustrated repositories and queues may be implemented as databases tables linked lists and so forth of the type known in the art as adapted in accord with the teachings hereof.

In the illustrated embodiment the software application communicates with the social network via an API provided by the social network . Alternatively or in addition it can effect such communications using the same interface as a human user would e.g. an HTML interface e.g. by parsing web page content and simulating user inputs such as browser navigations mouse clicks or keyboard strokes .

The software application defines and maintains repository as a dynamic repository of the limited group of individuals here represented by members and for whom it effects a collective social network. In the illustrated embodiment each member of the limited group of users is a member of both the social network and the software application although other embodiments may vary in this regard.

Membership in the limited group as defined by the repository as well as access privileges may be defined by the users themselves and or by administrators. In the illustrated embodiment a user may become a member of the limited group of users or withdraw their membership at anytime during the execution of the software application.

Thus for example an administrator may define users of the application while those those users themselves may enter social network login credentials such as usernames and passwords and other information. In the illustrated embodiment the software application supplies those credentials to the social network on behalf of the users via a communication protocol between the social network and the software application at step .

The software application also defines and maintains repository of administrators. This repository can be dynamic as well i.e. like repository though it is expected to change less frequently than the repository of users.

Repository maintains a dynamic list of search objectives for the software application . In the illustrated embodiment those search objectives comprise names titles and or other attributes of individuals of potential interest within the social network . Continuing the example above the search objectives can comprise a combination of company names and job titles intended to ferret out members of the social network that have connections to any of the members of the limited group i.e. users of the software application and again consistent with the example that are potential customers for a product marketed by the limited group.

The users or administrators can define and maintain the dynamic repository of search objectives as reflected by step . The users or an administrator can also define additional search constraints at step such as to continue the example limiting search results to those who have been employed by the account for more than six months. In preferred embodiments the users maintain individual lists of objectives in respective areas of the repository and the software application maintains a collective list or queue aggregated therefrom. In addition to being entered by users and or administrators search objectives can be generated by or imported from any of a variety of commercially available customer relationship management systems.

Search queue defines the order in which a search of the online social network will be executed on behalf of the collective members of the limited group. In step the software application loads that queue based on the objectives defined in step . The queue which can be loaded on FIFO LIFO or other bases is preferably loaded so as to aggregate e.g. for efficiency of search prioritize and schedule the objectives so that they can be applied to search functionality e.g. via the API or otherwise of the social network in a manner best suited to the membership of the limited group searching constraints of the social network and so forth.

Thus by way of example in step the software application can combine into search objective multiple such objectives from repository that are targeted to a same person same company etc. And by way of further example the applications software can prioritize objectives so that search related resources of the software the client digital data processor and the online social network are allocated equally or on some other basis to each member of the limited group. And by way of still further example the applications software can group or otherwise schedule the requests so as to take advantage of any time based or other constraints of those resources e.g. vis a vis maximum numbers of searches per day or other period .

In step the software applies those queued objectives to the social network. As noted this can be via the network API or otherwise.

In step the software accepts search results returned by the network. Again this is via the network API or otherwise.

In step the software application notifies users via a notification engine at step of results of the search of their collective network. The results can be sent to all users or can be limited to those users whose objectives are reflected in the results. In the notifications which can can be via email or other form of messaging results can be prioritized for presentation to the requesting user based on a number of criteria for example geographical distance number of intervening members in the link privacy settings among others.

An exchange between the notification engine and users at steps and determines if the search result fulfills an element in the search objective repository . If it does the specific search objective can be removed from the repository . If it does not the objective will remain in the repository and be fed to the queue to be executed again when the collective social network of the users is changed as members are added to the limited group as the social network grows and or the connections of those members into the social network itself evolve .

As shown in step when the software application is started it gathers information regarding an original group of users from repository . Referring to step if during the run of the application the limited group changes e.g. because a new user is added or a current user is removed operation of the software application is paused and action is restarted from .

Next in step the software application gathers the search objectives. Search objectives can be provided by one or more users that belong to the limited group of users as well as noted above by an administrator and can specify search targets by name current or former company affiliation and or any other criteria by which users of social networking sites or tools can be searched. Indeed in some embodiments criterion above and beyond those permitted by search tools on the social networking site may be provide these additional criteria can be applied by the software application as a second order filter on results provided by those tools .

If during the run of the application the search objectives change e.g. because a search objective is added or removed operation of the application is restarted from . As noted elsewhere such objectives can be added for example as users or administrators utilize the application to update the repository . Objectives can likewise be removed for example by the users or administrators . Additionally in some embodiments they can be retired once satisfied by search e.g. a search objective intended to identify the purchasing director of a target company can be retired by the application and thus removed from the repository once a corresponding search of the online social network has returned a designated number of records meeting those criteria . They can also be retired for example if the objective includes an explicit expiration date and or if it goes unsatisfied after a designated number of searches and or a designated period all by way of example.

In step the software application prioritizes and schedules the search objectives into a search queue as more fully described below in connection with .

Referring to step objectives in the search queue are individually applied by the software application to the online social network view its API or otherwise for execution by it. Depending on details of the interface this can include a first call by the applications program to the social network for purposes of logging in the applicable user s followed by a separate call to apply the search. Alternatively or in addition the social network may permit the login and search to be performed in a single step e.g. as in the case of an API call to the search tool that includes as parameters a user name and password for the member under whose credentials the search is being made .

If the social network refuses application of a search e.g. because a daily hourly or other time wise quotas or the like have been exceeded execution is paused see step . The pause can be terminated and the search retried when the applicable interval restarts.

In step results from search objectives already executed are displayed to the requesting users of the limited group and the rest are queued to be restarted once any applicable time interval passes. As noted one or more objectives may be retired in connection with this as well of course as further objectives being added. In addition to displaying results to users the application can compile a log of results for review by administrators and others by way of example.

In addition to displaying search results which in many cases may suffice in alerting a requesting user to the existence of members found in the social network meeting the requestor s objectives in some embodiments the applications program can initiate maintain record and or monitor communications between the requesting user and the found member again taking advantage of the collective social network of the limited group of users.

For example the application can notify those colleagues within the limited group who are sufficiently closely linked in the social network to the found member of the need to make an introduction or to otherwise assist in establishing communications between that member and the requestor. In some embodiments the degree of assistance provided by those colleagues in introducing or otherwise connecting requesting users to search results can be monitored and can be used to rank future search requests made by the assisting colleagues. In this manner the software application can provide an incentive for users to facilitate communication between their peers and their various social network connections. This information can be used to display a degree of participation to the limited group of users to the public or to some other audience which can further promote participation by the group.

Indeed in online social networks that so permit the applications program can utilize the API or other interface to make such an introduction directly in the name of the more closely connected colleague. Such an introduction which can be via email or other messaging supported by the social network can be for purposes of establishing a direct connection between the introduced parties i.e. the requestor and the found member via the social network or otherwise.

Alternatively or in addition the applications software can utilize the API or other interface to support substantive communications e.g. as opposed to a mere introduction between the requestor and the found member. Continuing the example above such a substantive communication automatically generated by the program might consist of an in network message initiated by the application software via the API in the name of the more closely connected colleague to the found member to the effect of the following or the like 

 Dear Found Member I am writing on behalf of my colleague Requestor who is in charge of widget sales for our company and who wishes to know whether Found Member s Company wishes to purchase same in connection with our year end sale. If so please use the attached order form. Signed More Closely Linked Colleague .

In related embodiments the applications software can afford the more closely linked colleague in whose name communications were established to remain privy to conversations between requestor and the found member for example by automatically copying that colleague in on such communications. As well the applications software can maintain a record of those communications to a repository organized based on any of a variety of criteria and monitored by a system administrator compliance officer and or by other members of the limited group of users.

Where possible the process shown in and described above is performed periodically e.g. hourly daily and so forth and or upon occurrence of a triggering event e.g. admission of a new user into the limited group entry by a user or administrator of a new search objective changes in the social network and so forth.

Some social networks will not support multiple simultaneous member logins during a single invocation of the API or other interface . For these it may be necessary for the software application to repeat the steps described above for each member of the limited group who is also a member of the social network or put another way to conduct a collective search over all users of the application by repeating those steps for each known login aggregating the results if those searches for presentation to the users e.g. following completion of the last iteration.

In addition to searching a single social network as described above e.g. via a single login or multiple iterative logins the application can in some embodiments search multiple online social networks. This can be done e.g. by repeating the process described above for a first such network then for a second such network and so forth. Alternatively the software application execute the sequence shown in once for example applying searches to multiple such networks by repeated action of step during that single pass.

It will be appreciated that the specifics of applying search objectives to one or more online social networks on behalf of one or more users of the limited group may vary typically in accord with the specifics of the online social network interfaces and hence that the flow charted in and described above is merely by way of example and that variations thereon within the scope of the teachings hereof may be necessary in actual practice.

Regardless the software application can thus search one or more social networks on behalf of the limited group of users represented in repository and thereby can perform a collective search on all of their behalf in those network s .

In block of the illustrated embodiment the search objectives for each member of the limited group e.g. Users A B C . . . M are ranked from most to least important independent of the search objectives of any other user. This can be based on metrics such as an amount of business at stake for the requesting user and or a size of his or her accounts a likelihood of finding a match for the objective within the social network and so forth. The rankings may be manually adjusted as well e.g. by the user administrator or others.

In block the software application aggregates the users search objectives and maintains them as a ranked queue such that each user s most important search objective is queried first followed by each user s second most important search objective etc.

In block the software application maintains an ordered queue reflecting those users of the limited group who are members of the online social network or put another way a queue indicating an order in which those user members respective links on the social network are going to be searched in order to effect a collective search of the network on behalf of all users e.g. a search using user A s social network a search using user B s social network etc. .

In operation of the software application according to one practice of the invention whenever a search for a given objective is found the search queue is terminated vis a vis that objective and is restarted for a next objective in identified in block . In such an embodiment prioritization and queuing process is conducted with the principles of 1 minimizing the variance in number of contacts found for each user in a limited time interval by resorting the queue identified in block and 2 minimizing the variance in the number of contacts provided by each user in a limited time interval by resorting the queue effected in block . Thus every time a match is found the search objectives are reordered to minimize the variance of principle 1 . This is done for example by prioritizing search objectives pertaining to those users with the fewest matches already found. In addition every time a match is found the order of individual social networks is reordered to minimize the variance of principle 2 . This is done for example by prioritizing the social networks of users that have provided the fewest connections.

Described above are systems and methods meeting the aforementioned objects among others. It will be appreciated that embodiments illustrated and described here are merely examples of the invention and that other embodiments incorporating changes thereto fall within the scope of the invention of which we claim.

