---

title: Recommendation and purchase options for recommemded products based on associations between a user and consumed digital content
abstract: Features are disclosed for providing notifications or recommendations to users based on user profile information and digital content the user is watching. In some implementations, a user can be watching a television program on a network enabled television. The systems and methods may determine characteristics of the television program and obtain user profile information. The systems and methods then may analyze the determined characteristics and user profile information to determine an association between the user and an item of interest in the television program. The systems and methods then may generate and provide a notification relating to the association to the user. Optionally, the systems and methods may also provide one or more recommendations to the user based at least in part on the determined association.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420319&OS=09420319&RS=09420319
owner: AUDIBLE, INC.
number: 09420319
owner_city: Newark
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121203
---
This application is claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 632 841 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING AN ASSOCIATION BETWEEN A USER AND A VIDEO PROGRAM and filed on Jun. 7 2012 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A computer implemented recommendation may recommend items of interest to a user browsing an electronic network resource such as a retail web site or a library web site. The recommendations generated by such a computer implemented service may be customized to a particular user based on information known about the user. One common application for a recommendation service involves recommending goods and services items for potential purchase to users shopping on a retail website. For example the recommendation service may recommend items e.g. books compact discs videos apparel accessories personal electronic devices etc. to a user based on a profile that has been developed for the user. For instance the profile may include information regarding the user s purchase history rental history product viewing history item tagging activities wish lists and or other historical or behavioral aspects. Recommendation services are also commonly used for recommending web sites articles music and video files television shows restaurants and other types of items to users.

While advertising and recommending products and services via web sites and other network resources is a relatively recent technological advance commercial television has long been used to advertise items. However targeting strategies for advertising on commercial television have traditionally not been based on personalized or individual recommendations.

Generally described the present disclosure relates to providing a recommendation to a user based at least in part on an association between a user and digital content consumed by the user via a network enabled television or other computing device capable of displaying downloaded or streamed digital content. More specifically an association between the user and an item depicted in mentioned in displayed in or otherwise associated with the digital content that the user is consuming may be determined by analyzing the user s profile and or the digital content. The recommendation service may then generate a recommendation for the user of another item s in which the user may be interested which recommendation may be based at least in part on the determined association. Subsequently the recommendation service may provide a notification to the user informing him her of the determined association and or providing the recommendation of the other item s of interest.

For example the user may be watching a television program on a network enabled television. The user may request initiation of the recommendation service by launching an application on the network enabled television while the user is watching the television program. The request can include information such as time day location of the user at the time of the request identification of the digital content being consumed at the time of the request identification of user s watching the digital content at the time of the request etc.

Once initiated the recommendation service may determine one or more characteristics of the digital content being consumed by the user as well as profile information related to the user and use this information to make an association and generate a recommendation for the user. For example the recommendation service may determine a location of the user using GPS data acquired from the network enabled television or another device associated with the user such as the user s mobile phone. The recommendation service may then identify one or more characteristics of the digital content from third party data sources of such information. In some embodiments the digital content may include metadata and the recommendation service may identify characteristics of the digital content by analyzing the metadata. For example while the user is watching a television program the recommendation service may identify one or more characteristics of the television program by analyzing metadata that is broadcast with the television program. Characteristics information may include but are not limited to a program title a plot summary the names of characters the names of actors playing the characters the names of shooting locations the program date items displayed or referenced in the program locations depicted or referenced in the program etc.

Once such characteristic s is identified and as the user watches the television program the recommendation service may analyze the user s profile information and the characteristic s of the television program and determine an association between the user and the program. For example the recommendation service may determine based at least in part on the characteristic s of the program and the user s profile information that an actor in the television program is wearing a pair of shoes already owned by the user. The recommendation service may then generate a recommendation for a belt based on the association made between the user owning shoes being worn by an actor in the television program. Once the recommendation is generated the recommendation service may provide a notification to the user that includes information regarding the association between the user and the television program and or the recommendation for the belt. In the current example the notification is displayed to the user on the network enabled television while the user is watching the television program. The notification may include details about the shoes worn by the character and owned by the user as well as recommendation information regarding the belt. The recommendation information for the belt may include an image of the belt a description of the belt price of the belt etc. as well as a link or other actionable reference to a web site or other network resource from which the user may purchase or otherwise obtain the belt.

Various aspects of the disclosure will now be described with regard to certain examples and embodiments which are intended to illustrate but not to limit the disclosure.

Third party data sources may comprise any remote or local computing devices or other computing resources from which the recommendation service may obtain profile information for the user . For example a third party data source may be a retail website a social networking website a yellow pages website a demographic database etc. In some embodiments third party data sources may also be any remote or local computing devices or other computing resources from which the recommendation service may obtain characteristics information for digital content being viewed by the user . For example a third party data source may comprise a retail website a movie rental website a blog website a content information website an entertainment website a news website etc. In addition a third party data source be any remote or local computing devices or other computing resources from which the digital content consumed by the user is downloaded or streamed such as a move rental web site content delivery web site video sharing web site etc.

The network may be any wired network wireless network or combination thereof. In addition the network may be a personal area network local area network wide area network cable network satellite network cellular telephone network or combination thereof. Protocols and components for communicating via the Internet or any of the other aforementioned types of communication networks are well known to those skilled in the art of computer communications and thus need not be described in more detail herein.

In the embodiment illustrated in the computing device which implements the recommendation service may correspond to a logical association of one or more computing devices such as an application server for generating recommendations and a database server for storing profile information for users digital content information similarities data as will be described below and the like. In some embodiments the features and services provided by the recommendations service may be implemented as one or more web services consumable via the network . In further embodiments the recommendation service is provided by one more virtual machines implemented in a hosted computing environment. The hosted computing environment may include one or more rapidly provisioned and released computing resources which computing resources may include computing networking and or storage devices. A hosted computing environment may also be referred to as a cloud computing environment.

In the embodiment illustrated in the computing device implementing the recommendation service includes one or more microprocessors central processing units CPUs . The CPUs may execute a variety of operating systems that perform standard operating system functions such as for example opening reading writing and closing a file. The operating system may control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

The computing device may further include one or more memories such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette or optical media storage device and or other non transitory tangible computer readable media. The memory may store software code or instructions for execution by the CPU in order to cause the computing device to perform certain operations such as accessing user profile information generating recommendations and providing notifications to users.

The operations and methods described and claimed herein may be performed by any suitable computing device s such as the computing device . The operations and methods may be executed on such suitable computing device s in response to execution of software instructions or other executable code read from a non transitory tangible computer readable medium or computer storage device. A computer readable medium is a data storage device that can store data that is readable by a computer system. Non limiting examples of computer readable media include read only memory random access memory other volatile or non volatile memory devices CD ROMs magnetic tape flash drives and optical data storage devices.

The example computing device may include one or more input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard trackball mouse drawing tablet joystick game controller touchscreen e.g. capacitive or resistive touchscreen touchpad accelerometer network television interface image capture device e.g. a video camera and or printer for example. The computing device may also include one or more multimedia devices such as a display device also referred to herein as a display screen which may also be one of the I O devices in the case of a touchscreen for example. The computing device may also include one or more multimedia devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example.

In the embodiment of the I O devices and interfaces provide a communication interface to various external devices via the network . For example the computing device may be electronically coupled to the network via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link s . The network may allow communication with various other computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired and or wireless communication links.

In the embodiment of the computing device also includes an acquisition module an analysis module and a presentation module . Each of these modules is discussed in further detail below. In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware and or firmware and or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in any programming language such as for example the JAVA programming language the PYTHON programming language the PERL programming language the LAU programming language the C programming language the C programming language the C programming language etc. A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example the BASIC programming language the PERL programming language or the PYTHON programming language. Software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software modules configured for execution on computing devices may be provided on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc digital video disc flash drive or any other tangible medium. Such software code may be stored partially or fully on a memory device of the executing computing device such as the computing device for execution by the computing device. Hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are typically implemented as software modules but may be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

In the embodiment of the features and or functions of computing device may be combined with a user computing device to provide the recommendation service. Thus a network enabled television does not need to be present. Instead the digital content and related notifications and or recommendations may be presented to the user via any presentation device such as a television. Those skilled in the art will recognize that such a device may simply be an output device e.g. display screen and or speakers of the user computing device or of a television or other presentation device being utilized by the user . The user computing device may be a laptop smartphone electronic book reader e reader tablet computer or the like that is associated with a user that is consuming digital content. Accordingly in the embodiment illustrated in user computing device implements the recommendation service that generates one or more recommendations for items of possible interest to the user and provides one or more notifications to the user . In addition the user computing device may be in communication with one or more third party data sources via a network so that it may obtain data used to generate such notifications and or recommendations.

In the illustrated embodiment the user computing device includes one or more elements of the computing device discussed above. For example the user computing device may include the acquisition module the analysis module and presentation module and may communicate with the presentation device via a wired and or wireless communication link. The other elements of the user computing device such as the CPU memory etc. may be similar to the corresponding elements of computing device in . In other embodiments the elements of the computing device and the user computing device may be different and or distributed in other arrangements.

In the embodiment of the features and or functions of computing device may be provided by the network enabled television itself. As shown in the user is a person viewing digital content on the network enabled television . The network enabled television provides the recommendation service that generates one or more recommendations for items of possible interest to the user and provides one or more notifications to the user . Accordingly in this embodiment the network enabled television includes the elements of the computing device discussed above. For example the network enabled television includes the acquisition module the analysis module and presentation module and is in communication with one or more third party data sources via a network . The network enabled television may comprise one or computing devices software firmware and hardware resources to enable the network enabled television to connect to network and to provide digital content to the user . The other elements of the network enabled television such as the CPU memory etc. may be similar to the corresponding elements in . In other embodiments the elements of the computing device and the network enabled television may be different and or distributed in other arrangements.

In the embodiments discussed above the recommendation service is provided by execution of an acquisition module an analysis module and a presentation module . Although illustrated in as embodied in a single computing device in other embodiments the modules may be distributed across multiple devices and may be controlled and or operated by multiple different entities. In addition the operations performed by and or the instructions included in the acquisition module the analysis module and the presentation module may be combined and or distributed across fewer more or different modules.

The acquisition module may be configured to acquire user profile information associated with the user and to acquire characteristics information associated with the digital content being viewed by the user from one or more third party data sources . The profile information may include information regarding the user s purchase history rental history item viewing history item tagging activities wish lists and or other historical or behavioral aspects. However in some embodiments the profile information that is considered by the acquisition module is information other than information related to the user s digital content consumption habits e.g. amount of content consumed time of consumption duration of consumption frequency of consumption subject matter of consumption etc. as such information may not necessarily generate recommendations for items of particular interest to the user for purchase. In one embodiment the acquisition module is configured to acquire the user profile information and the characteristics information in response to a request from the user . The analysis module then analyzes the user profile information and characteristics information to determine any associations between the user and the digital content and or any recommendations based at least in part thereon. The presentation module may then provide any notifications regarding the determined associations and or recommendations to the user .

As will be described below in connection with in some embodiments when a user desires a recommendation the user can transmit a request to the recommendation service e.g. by clicking a button launching an application transmitting a command speaking a command etc. using an I O device and interface . In certain embodiments the user may install or download an application plug in applet extension etc. associated with the recommendation service to his her computing device or network enabled digital content consumption device e.g. network enabled television to enable transmission of the request and or provide other processing provided by embodiments discussed herein. The user may request a recommendation while consuming any type of digital content such as a movie a sporting broadcast a television show an audio book or the like. In some embodiments the request also includes an aspect or characteristic that may be found in or related to the digital content. For instance the user may request a recommendation related to a particular character in a movie being watched by the user . Accordingly in response to the user request the recommendation service may generate a recommendation for a book about the character e.g. an audio book an e book or a physical book and send a notification of said recommendation to a user computing device associated with the user .

As another example when the user is watching a program or advertisement that advertises or displays an item previously purchased or used by the user the user may request a recommendation for other products or services related to the advertised displayed item. In some embodiments the user requests the recommendation via a user profile preferences form or a menu option displayed on a user computing device or a network enabled television while the user is viewing the program advertisement and the request is transmitted to and stored by the recommendation service. The recommendation service may then detect if the user is watching an advertisement or program that advertises or displays an item previously purchased or used by the user explained below and may generate and provide to a user computing device associated with the user which may be a separate device from the device via which the user is viewing the advertisement program a notification for the recommendation.

Similarly the user may request a recommendation related to an item of interest included in the digital content and selected by the user e.g. by clicking on pointing to or touching the item using an I O device and interface . For example the user may select a hat worn by a character in a movie being viewed by moving a cursor over the hat and activating a selection control. The recommendation service may then determine an association between the user and the selected item of interest and generate a recommendation based at least on the determined association. By way of example the recommendation service may determine that the user or the user s friend owns the same or similar hat generate a recommendation for another hat and provide a notification of the recommendation to the user .

As yet another example the user may have read an electronic book and highlighted text or an image related to an athlete included in the electronic book. Subsequently the user may request that a notification be provided to the user when the user is watching a sporting event that includes the athlete. Accordingly when the user is watching a sporting event the recommendation service may determine that the athlete for which the user highlighted passages in the electronic book is being displayed to the user e.g. as a player on one of the teams participating in the sporting event and provide a notification including the highlighted text or image related to the athlete from the electronic book via a user computing device which may be a separate device from the device via which the user is viewing the sporting event . A variety of other notifications and or recommendations may be created for users in various embodiments. Further examples will be given below.

In some embodiments the user request may include additional data. For example the request may include data such as an identification of user s consuming the digital content time of the request day of the request location of the user s at the time of the request identification information associated with digital content being consumed at the time of the request preferences associated with any notifications and or recommendations etc. The data may be collected from the user s or by the recommendation service. For example the recommendation service may determine the identity of user s consuming the digital content by performing image and or voice recognition of the user s present using the I O devices e.g. a camera microphone etc. and interfaces as discussed above.

In response to the user request the acquisition module may in some embodiments acquire characteristic information associated with digital content being consumed by the user from a third party data source explained further below . By way of illustration the third party data source may be an entity that provides digital content characteristics information to interested parties. The digital content characteristics information may include one or more of the following a program title a plot summary names of characters names of actors playing the characters names of the director producers cinematographer etc. writers names of musical compositions songs included in a sound track names of composers of and artists performing the compositions a script a length scene names names of shooting locations genre information user ratings industry ratings program date items and locations displayed in the program etc.

In some embodiments the acquisition module may analyze digital content presented to user to determine the characteristics information associated with the digital content. By way of illustration the acquisition module may analyze metadata associated with the digital content e.g. metadata included with a broadcast or acquired from a third party source discussed above to determine characteristics information associated with the digital content including identification of objects items events locations people dates scenes plots actions etc. Metadata can include in depth descriptive information regarding inter alia title storyline cast genre release date images or the like. The metadata associated with the digital content in some embodiments may be enhanced to include additional information as described above. For example the metadata may be enhanced to include identification information associated with characters people objects products events locations dates etc. The metadata associated with the digital content may be created by third party providers users recommendation services or the like.

In some embodiments the acquisition module of the recommendation service performs image recognition on the digital content to determine characteristics information. For example the acquisition module may analyze the digital content to detect images present in the digital content and then analyze the detected images to determine the characteristics information such as people objects locations etc. by performing image recognition on the digital content. In other embodiments acquisition module converts the digital content to text and analyzes the converted text e.g. to determine if a product retail establishment or restaurant is mentioned. For example the acquisition module may detect audio included in the digital content and convert the audio to text using speech to text techniques. As another example the acquisition module may perform image recognition to detect any text displayed in the digital content e.g. displayed on signs or billboards and then analyze the detected text to determine characteristics information as discussed above.

In some embodiments where the recommendation service may not have direct access to the digital content e.g. the user may provide the characteristics information to the recommendation service. In other embodiments the user may provide identification information for the digital content to the recommendation service and then the acquisition module may obtain characteristics information for the identified digital content from other data sources such as third party data sources . For example the user may indicate to the recommendation service that he she is watching a particular baseball game and the recommendation service may obtain from a third party data source information regarding which players are playing in the game which persons are broadcasting the game in which stadium is the game being played which commercials are to be displayed during the game etc.

The acquisition module may also acquire user profile information associated with the user who submitted the user request from an internal data source and or a third party data source explained further below or other applications executed by computing device . In some embodiments the acquisition module is also configured to acquire recommendations information from a third party data source explained further below. 

Turning now to the analysis module of the recommendation service it may be configured to analyze the acquired user profile information and characteristic information related to identified digital content acquired by the acquisition module to determine an association between the user and the digital content. The analysis module may then generate a recommendation and or notification based at least in part on the determined association. For example the analysis module may analyze the time and location of the user request. Based at least in part on time and or location information the analysis module may determine from one or more third party data sources e.g. a program guide that lists the names of programs being broadcast at specified times locations and or channels that the user is watching a particular movie. Then the analysis module may generate a recommendation based at least in part upon an association between the digital content and the user . As a further example if the user request indicates that the user is interested in recommendations related to any places the user has previously visited analysis module may analyze user profile information and characteristic information related to the digital content to determine an association between locations the user has been and locations in the digital content. For example if the user profile information indicates that the user has visited a specific restaurant and the characteristic information related to the digital content indicates that the restaurant is being displayed or referred to in the digital content the analysis module may then generate a notification indicating that the user has frequented the restaurant. The notification may then be presented on the user computing device. In addition or alternatively the notification may include a recommendation for a similar restaurant or a promotion related to the restaurant.

As another example the user may request a notification of information related to events about which the user has read. Accordingly the analysis module may analyze other digital content the user has purchased or consumed as indicated by user profile information such as user purchase history and identify any events associated with the same e.g. wars travels elections etc. . Accordingly when the user consumes another item of digital content the analysis module may analyze the metadata associated with the other item of digital content to determine whether any of the identified events are also included in the other item of digital content and generate any relevant notifications and in some cases recommendations based on the association between the identified events and the other item of digital content.

A variety of other associations may be determined by the analysis module and a variety of notifications recommendations may be generated for those associations in various embodiments. For example the association may be a direct association e.g. the user has read about an event that is being shown in the digital content and or it may be an indirect association e.g. an event in the digital content is similar to an event the user has read about . In some embodiments analysis module may be configured to keep track of some or all previously generated notifications and or recommendations. The analysis module may review some or all previously generated notifications recommendations to analyze user behavior associated with the previously generated notifications recommendations and use the analysis in determining what further notifications recommendations should be generated for the user .

For example if analysis module determines a notification recommendation is to be provided to the user based on an association but determines that the same or similar notification recommendation had previously been provided to the user then analysis module may be configured to prevent repeated provision of that notification recommendation. By way of another example if analysis module determines that notifications recommendations related to audio books had more positive user interactions than notifications recommendations related to music e.g. the user purchased many more recommend audio books than recommended songs then analysis module may generate notifications recommendations only related to audio books or more heavily weighted to audio books.

Optionally analysis module may apply one or more association level models to the acquired user profile and or digital content characteristic information to determine an association score that represents the level or degree of association between a user and the item of digital content being consumed by the user . Based at least in part on the determined association score analysis module may determine whether or what type of a notification recommendation may be generated. For example the analysis module may be configured so that only associations with association scores greater than a particular threshold may be used in the generation of notifications and or recommendations.

Using an association level model the analysis module may rank or score an association of a given user to an item of digital content based on various factors and or based on comparison of the given user to other users. Moreover a variety of criteria could be used in the comparison or scoring and different weights could be used in the comparison or scoring. For example criteria relating to an amount of user profile information acquired for the user type s of user profile information acquired the reliability of the user profile information acquired type s of digital content being consumed date s user profile information is collected source s from which the user profile information is collected source s from which digital content information is collected etc. may be used in the association level model to determine an association score. The association level model may then by way of illustration give a higher weight to user profile information related to purchase history than or in addition to user profile information related to demographic information. For example if data relating to purchase history is collected from a credit bureau or financial institution it can be given greater weight in the association level model than data collected from an Internet search which may be deemed to be less reliable and or comprehensive than the data from the credit bureau or financial institution . Accordingly the resulting association score may be greater for those associations identified based on more reliable information.

The analysis module may be configured to determine an overall association score an association score in certain categories e.g. television movies or sports or a combination of association scores as desired. The association levels model s can be recursively generated based on various factors such as source s of user profile digital content information type s of user profile digital content information analyzed comparison to other users in a particular category or subcategory comparison to other users with similar characteristics weights given to specific information user behavior in response to previous associations effectiveness of associations user preferences system configurations etc. The analysis module may also apply weights to these association scores to determine an overall association score. The association level model s may also be modified or refined as discussed above based on the accuracy of the model in determining association scores. The association scores and or overall association score may than be used to determine whether any notifications and or recommendations should be generated.

Once an association is determined the analysis module may generate a recommendation based at least in part on the determined association. For example the recommendation service may recommend books e.g. audio books e books physical books etc. music videos video games toys electronics and or other types of items to users. The recommendation service may also recommend other types of items or information including but not limited to authors artists points or places of interest and or groups or categories of goods or services. Briefly given an identification of items that are known to be of interest to a user e.g. a list of items purchased rated and or viewed by the user and based at least in part on the determined association s the analysis module of the recommendation service may generate a list of additional items recommendations that are predicted to be of interest to the user . As used herein the term interest refers generally to a user s liking of attraction to or affinity for an item the term known is used to distinguish items for which the user has implicitly or explicitly indicated some level of interest from items predicted by the recommendation service to be of interest. 

Recommendations may optionally be generated using a table or other representation which maps or correlates an item to related or similar items without the need for users to rate any items although ratings data may optionally be used . Such a table or other representation may be referred to herein as a similarities table or an item to item mapping. For example if there are three items that are known to be of interest to a particular user such as three items the user recently purchased and that have been determined to have an association to digital content being consumed by the user the recommendation service may retrieve similar items for these three items from the similarities table and appropriately use these similar items to generate one or more recommendations.

In accordance with one aspect the similarities tables or item to item mappings can be generated periodically such as once per week from data which reflects the collective interests of a community of users and or in response to user actions. For example the item to item mappings may be generated by an off line process which identifies correlations between items. By way of illustration the mappings may be generated by analyzing user purchase histories to identify correlations between purchases of particular items e.g. items A and B are similar because a relatively large portion of the users that purchased item A also bought item B . In addition or instead the mappings may be generated using histories of the items viewed by individual users e.g. items A and B are related because a significant portion of those who viewed item A also viewed item B . Item relatedness or similarity may also be determined based in whole or in part on other types of browsing activities of users e.g. items A and B are related because a significant portion of those who put item A in their shopping carts also put item B in their shopping carts . Further the item to item mappings may reflect other types of similarities including content based similarities extracted by analyzing item descriptions or content.

Once the analysis module generates a recommendation and or notification based at least in part on any determined associations the presentation module may transmit the generated notification and or recommendation to the computing device via which the user is consuming the item of digital content to another device associated with the user e.g. the user s smart phone or other third party system discussed elsewhere herein . In some embodiments the presentation module may also provide the user with a list or other identification of associations between the user and the item of digital content that were determined by the analysis module . In response the user may select an identified association and or select an action related to an identified association from the list. Accordingly the analysis module may then use the user s selection for generating a further or alternative recommendation.

The presentation module may transmit the generated notification and or recommendation based at least in part on user the user s account settings and or the user s preferences. For example the user may have previously specified that he or she wishes to receive notifications on the bottom left of a display screen via an audible message etc. As another example the user may specify that any notifications and or recommendations should be transmitted to a computing device e.g. smartphone tablet or the like associated with the user . As yet another example the presentation module may transmit the generated notifications and or recommendations with an audible beep a vibrating alert or the like. As another example as in the presentation module may transmit the notifications and or recommendations via the network to the network enabled television such that the network enabled television may presents the notifications and or recommendations to the user .

Optionally the user may customize specify where when and or how notifications and or recommendations are sent. For example the user may specify the type of information to be included in notifications the devices to which notifications are sent the time of day in which notifications are sent the duration associated with any notifications and any other aspect of notifications. Such customizations may be performed with respect to all notifications specified groups of notifications and or individual notifications. Thus the user may customize a certain notification for delivery via SMS MMS or microblog post etc. while another group of notifications are set up to be delivered via email.

As yet another example the user may specify that a notification and or recommendation only be transmitted to the user when the item subject of the recommendation is on sale or subject to some other type of promotion. In certain embodiments the presentation module may have access to information regarding the availability or future availability of books events movies electronics music etc. and the user may specify that the notifications and or recommendation only be transmitted when the item subject of the recommendation is available or will be available. In certain configurations the presentation module may provide an indication in the notification and or recommendation that similar items may become available in the future and or of the expected availability or release date for those similar items. As an example presentation module may provide a notification recommending a book and also include an indication that a movie based on the book may become available in three months. In another example the user may indicate that a notification and or recommendation only be transmitted if the digital content being consumed is a sporting event that is being broadcast. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the presentation module may be configured to review the preferences and or customizations before transmitting any notifications and or recommendations and that a variety of other configurations are possible in other embodiments.

GUIs such as those illustrated in may be presented on a computing device upon which the user is consuming the digital content e.g. the network enabled television or a computing device associated with the user but not being used to consume the digital content e.g. the user s smart phone . A GUI can be accessed by or displayed on such a computing device so that the user can view notifications and or recommendations dismiss notifications and or recommendations and or perform any actions associated with the notifications and or recommendations. However as those skilled in the art will appreciate a user in other implementations may access the functionality of the recommendation service via an Application Programming Interface API or other types of interfaces.

As shown in presentation module may be configured to provide a GUI including a notification to user via a network enabled television . As illustrated the GUI may be provided to the user while the user is watching digital content such as a video or television program via the network enabled television. In the illustrated example the user is notified that a speech occurring in the digital content was previously read about by the user . As discussed above the recommendation service can identify from the user s profile information that the user has previously consumed items of digital content regarding this speech and thus determine that the user is associated with the speech occurring in the digital content currently being viewed by the user . The user can respond to the notification by dismissing the notification e.g. by selecting a Dismiss control with a remote control or other user I O device and interface for the network enabled television or by requesting More detail regarding the notification e.g. by selecting a read now control . The user in some embodiments may also view one or more recommendations that were generated by the recommendation service based at least in part on the association determined between the user and speech occurring in the digital content being viewed. In this regard the user may select the read now control with a remote control or other input device. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the notification may optionally be presented on display of the network enabled television in different locations as desired and or can be provided to other devices or by other techniques as discussed elsewhere herein as specified by the user s preferences.

As discussed elsewhere herein a variety of other types of notifications and or recommendations may also be generated by the recommendation service and presented in a GUI generated by the presentation module . For example the analysis module may determine that a scene in a television program or movie may be taking place in a neighborhood associated with the user . Analysis module may then generate a notification and or recommendation based on the determined association. The notification may include information regarding the buildings or businesses in the scene e.g. business names type of business user ratings of the business etc. previously recorded images of the location of the scene etc. In some embodiments the images may be retrieved from a third party data source such as a social networking website and may include information identifying items of interest in the image such as tags identifying the location and or the people e.g. the user and the user s friends in the image. The tags may have been added by the user the user s friends or other persons or systems. The analysis module may analyze these tags to determine that the user is associated with the television program or movie being consumed because the user has been to the location of the particular scene been viewed. Accordingly some or all of the tag information or images may be presented to the user while the user is watching the television program or movie.

As another example the analysis module of the recommendation service may determine that a restaurant appearing in the digital content the user is consuming is a restaurant to which the user has been based at least in part on data obtained from a social networking website e.g. from the user s or a friend s social networking page that includes the restaurant s name and an indication statement that the user has been to the restaurant . The analysis module may then generate a notification based on this association. The presentation module may then generate a GUI to be presented to the user that notifies the user of the association and includes an image of the restaurant. In addition the image may be presented with information identifying persons friends objects places etc. that the analysis module may have detected while determining the association. As yet another example the analysis module may determine that the user is watching a sporting event and determine that the user has previously visited the stadium where the sporting event has occurred. The presentation module may then generate a GUI including a notification of this association which notification includes the location where the user was seated the dates the user visited the stadium the event that the user watched at the stadium an image of the view from the user s seat etc.

As a further example the analysis module of the recommendation service may determine that an excerpt from an audio book to which the user has listened is related to a television program the user is watching. The analysis module may then generate a notification that provides this association for example by including the relevant excerpt from the audio book for playback if desired. By way of illustration if the user is watching a baseball game and three men are on base with two outs and analysis module has determined that the user has listened to an audio book related to baseball such as the book by Michael Lewis then relevant excerpts from the audio book e.g. excerpts related to similar situations may be included with the notification and presented to the user via a GUI generated by the presentation module .

Returning now to the figures as shown in more details related to a notification may be provided if the user selects the read now control in . For example the presentation module may generate a GUI that includes more information regarding the association that was determined between the user and the digital content being consumed. In the illustrated example the GUI presented on the display of the network enabled television includes information that the user read about the speech occurring in the video television program in an electronic book entitled that was last accessed on Apr. 12 2009. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the GUIs generated by the presentation module may include a variety of other information regarding the determined association as discussed above. For example GUIs may include passages from that were highlighted by the user annotations to Book ABC that were made the user etc. In addition user may also view one or more recommendations for related books articles magazines etc. if the user selects a read now control from the GUI .

As shown in one or more recommendations related to the association determined between the user and the video television program being consumed may be presented if the user selects the read now control from the GUI depicted in or the read now control from the GUI depicted in . As discussed above analysis module of the recommendation service may determine one or more recommendations based at least in part on the determined association between the user and the digital content the user is consuming. In the illustrated GUI the recommendations are for books merchandise and music related to the determined association. However those skilled in the art will recognize that any type number or categories of recommendations could be presented without departing from the scope of the present invention. Those skilled in the art will also recognize that the user can select the recommendations of interest from the GUI using a user input device and be presented further GUIs that enable the user to perform one or more actions related to the recommendations e.g. buy save send etc. . For example the user may request that the recommendations be sent to his or her email address so that the user can resume consumption of the digital content and consider the recommendations at a later more convenient time. In this regard in some embodiments a GUI may be configured to enable the user to stop playback of the digital content while the user is interacting with any notifications. As an example if the GUI including the notification includes excerpts from an audio book the user may select to stop playback of the item digital content being consumed and choose to listen to the excerpts from the audio book and or read any text associated with the excerpts.

As shown in multiple users may be consuming the item of digital content e.g. multiple users may be watching the network enabled television and thus the presentation module may generate GUIs that include notifications for multiple users. For example analysis module of the recommendation service may determine an association between each consuming user and the item of the digital content being watched. Accordingly the presentation module may generate a GUI such as GUI depicted in to present notifications and or recommendations to some or all of the consuming users. In some embodiments the notifications and or recommendations for each consuming user may be presented in different colors sizes locations means etc. based on each consuming user s preferences. In the illustrated example User is provided the same notification as in and User is provided a notification of the determined association that he owns a similar tie to the tie being worn by a character appearing in the video television program being viewed by User and User . Each user may interact with the GUI as discussed above in connection with .

In some embodiments the type or number of notifications that may be included in a GUI may be based at least in part on the user s identified as consuming the digital content. For example if analysis module of the recommendations service determines e.g. based at least in part on user profile information that the identified user s are all from the same college and are watching a college football game analysis module may generate notifications and or recommendations that are common to all or a subset of identified user s and or the college generally. As another example if analysis module determines that the identified user s comprise a family and some of the identified user s are below the age of 18 then the analysis module may generate only notifications that are common to the family and or are appropriate based on the age of the identified user s .

As shown in the GUI may include additional information determined from analyzing data from one or more third party data sources such as a social networking website and then determining one or more associations between the user and the digital content being consumed. For example the analysis module may determine an association between the digital content being consumed and a contact identified in the social graph of the user as maintained by the social networking website. Accordingly in User is provided an additional notification regarding the contact e.g. that Friend A owns a similar tie. In some embodiments the analysis module may not use contact information from a user s social graph but may instead determine an association based on persons generally persons in a certain demographic group persons in a particular geographic region or the like as desired.

The method begins at block . In block the recommendation service receives a request. As explained above the request can be initiated by a user and may include request information such as time day location of the user at the time of the request identification information associated with the item of digital content being consumed at the time of the request identification of the user s consuming the digital content at the time of the request etc.

Next in block the recommendation service determines one or more characteristics of the digital content being consumed by the user . For example if the request includes location data or GPS data the recommendation service may use this data to determine location information for the user and identify a characteristic s of the digital content from one or more third party data sources based at least in part on the location information. In addition or alternatively if the digital content includes metadata the recommendation service may determine characteristics of the digital content by analyzing the metadata as discussed above.

Next in block the recommendation service determines or identifies profile information for the user and any other identified users . The recommendation service may communicate with one or more third party data sources to acquire user profile information. For example the recommendation service may communicate with a third party data source e.g. data stores of network retail websites social networking websites etc. to obtain a purchase history and or other behavior or historical data associated with the user . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the recommendation service may communicate with a variety of other third party sources to acquire user profile information such as search engines websites local information offices news outlets data repositories or the like. In addition the recommendation service may acquire information associated with one or more items of interest as discussed above. By way of illustration the recommendation service may access one or more third party data sources to obtain information such as business information availability information reservations information pricing information sales information etc. for the items of interest.

Next in block the recommendation service determines an association between the user and the digital content the user is consuming. The recommendation service analyzes the user s profile information and the characteristic s of digital content being consumed by the user to determine any associations as discussed above.

Moving to block the recommendation service determines one or more recommendations based at least in part on any determined associations. Next in block the recommendation service generates one or more notifications including any information regarding the determined associations and or any recommendations based on the determinations and provides them to the computing device e.g. computing device or network enabled television upon which the user is consuming the digital content or to another computing device associated with the user as noted above. The method ends at block .

In some implementations a user can request generation of notifications for a type of digital content other than a video or television program. For example a user can request the generation of notifications for a radio broadcast and or an audio book the user is watching or hearing. The recommendation service may process the request as discussed above and provide any notifications to the user as discussed above. For example the recommendation service may analyze the audio of the radio program and or audio book to determine a characteristic s of the radio program and or audio book and then analyze user profile information and characteristic information to determine any associations. Then the recommendation service may then generate or provide any notifications or recommendations based on any determined associations.

By way of illustration if the user is listening to an interview with a famous actor the recommendation service may determine that the user has read a biography associated with the actor and may provide a notification based on the association. As another example a user can request the generation of any notifications recommendations while the user is browsing the Internet. The recommendation service could process the request as discussed above and provide any notifications to the user as discussed above. For example the recommendation service may analyze data from one or more websites the user is browsing to determine a characteristic s of the websites and then analyze user profile information to determine any associations. Then the recommendation service may generate or provide any notifications or recommendations based on any determined associations. By way of illustration if the user is browsing a news website the recommendation service may determine that the user has visited a country being discussed on the news website and may provide a notification based on the association. As another example a user can request the generation of any notifications and or recommendations while the user is reading an electronic book on an electronic book reader etc. The recommendation service could process the request as discussed above and provide any notifications to the user as discussed above. For example the recommendation service may analyze content from an electronic book the user is reading viewing highlighting etc. to determine characteristics of the electronic book and then analyze user profile information to determine any associations. Then the recommendation service may generate or provide any notifications or recommendations based on any determined associations. By way of illustration if the user is reading a fiction novel the recommendation service may determine that the user owns an action figure from the novel and may provide a notification based on the association.

Depending on the embodiment certain acts events or functions of any of the processes or algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence can be added merged or left out altogether e.g. not all described operations or events are necessary for the practice of the processes or algorithms . Moreover in certain embodiments operations or events can be performed concurrently e.g. through multi threaded processing interrupt processing or multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures rather than sequentially.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules routines and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality can be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the disclosure.

The steps of a method process routine or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of a non transitory computer readable storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC. The ASIC can reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium can reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Conditional language used herein such as among others can could might may e.g. and the like unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without other input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The terms comprising including having and the like are synonymous and are used inclusively in an open ended fashion and do not exclude additional elements features acts operations and so forth. Also the term or is used in its inclusive sense and not in its exclusive sense so that when used for example to connect a list of elements the term or means one some or all of the elements in the list.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is to be understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or a combination thereof. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z to each be present.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features as applied to various embodiments it can be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the devices or algorithms illustrated can be made without departing from the spirit of the disclosure. As can be recognized certain embodiments described herein can be embodied within a form that does not provide all of the features and benefits set forth herein as some features can be used or practiced separately from others. The scope of the present disclosure is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

