---

title: Thermally oxidized seed layers for the production of {001} textured electrodes and PZT devices and method of making
abstract: A method for forming an electrical device having a {100}-textured platinum electrode comprising: depositing a textured metal thin film onto a substrate; thermally oxidizing the metal thin film by annealing to convert it to a rocksalt structure oxide with a {100}-texture; depositing a platinum film layer; depositing a ferroelectric film. An electrical device comprising a substrate; a textured layer formed on the substrate comprising metal oxide having a rocksalt structure; a first electrode film layer having a crystallographic texture acting as a template; and at least one ferroelectric material layer exhibiting spontaneous polarization epitaxially deposited on the first electrode film layer whereby the rocksalt structure of the textured layer facilitates the growth of the first electrode film layer with a {100} orientation which forms a template for the epitaxial deposition of the ferroelectric layer such that the ferroelectric layer is formed with an {001} orientation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08866367&OS=08866367&RS=08866367
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08866367
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120605
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 547 879 entitled Thermally Oxidized Seed Layers for the Production of 001 Textured Electrodes and PZT Capacitors by Fox et al filed on Oct. 17 2011 hereby incorporated by reference. This application is also a continuation in part CIP of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 436 349 entitled Stylo Epitaxial Piezoelectric and Ferroelectric Devices and Method of Manufacturing filed Mar. 30 2012 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 547 990 entitled Stylo Epitaxial Piezoelectric and Ferroelectric Devices and Method of Manufacturing filed by Fox et al. on Oct. 17 2011 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

A wide variety of the physical properties of materials such as ferroelectricity ferromagnetism piezoelectricity conductivity and dielectric permittivity depend upon material anisotropy and are therefore strongly affected by crystallographic texture as reported in M. D. Vaudin et al. Accuracy and Reproducibility of X ray Texture Measurements on Thin Films Mat. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. Vol. 721 entitled Magnetic and Electronic Films Microstructure Texture and Application to Data Storage edited by P. W. DeHaven et al. Mat. Res. Soc. Warrendale Pa. 2002 pp. 17 22. With the appropriate choice of thin film texture device operating efficiency and reliability can be strongly affected. Therefore texture is a critical factor for thin film process control and is fundamental to device reproducibility

Microelectromechanical systems MEMS have been used in a wide range of applications for example from pressure sensors and accelerometers to microphones and digital displays. In 2006 STMicroelectronics and Nintendo revolutionized the entire MEMS industry through the launch of the Nintendo Wii gaming console that uses 3 D MEMS accelerometers for motion control. Since then MEMS devices have been used in almost all new technology from smart phones to tablet PCs. In 2010 the MEMS industry experienced a 25 growth with the top four MEMS suppliers Texas Instruments Hewlett Packard Robert Bosch and STMicroelectronics increasing MEMS sales by 37 . Years of materials research has led to the current progress in MEMS technology. Various journal articles and books that have been written on piezoelectric thin films one of the types of materials used in MEMS devices for micro scale actuation

Lead zirconate titanate Pb ZrTi Oor PZT exhibits piezoelectric properties in thin films and is the most widely used piezoelectric bulk ceramic with ferroelectric properties. Examples of the use of thin films of PZT used to create large force large displacement actuators include actuators for RF switches relays and inkjet print heads.

The piezoelectric coefficient of PZT is inherently linked to its crystalline quality. The crystallographic texture of lead zirconate titanate PZT thin films strongly influences the piezoelectric properties used in MEMS applications. For tetragonal phase PZT films poled to saturation the piezoelectric response is sequentially greater for random 111 and 001 texture. Textured growth can be achieved by relying on crystal growth habit and can also be initiated by the use of a seed layer that provides a heteroepitaxial template. Template choice and the process used to form it determine the structural quality and ultimately influence performance and reliability of PZT MEMS devices such as switches filters and actuators. 111 textured PZT is generated by a combination of crystal habit and templating mechanisms that occur in the PZT bottom electrode stack.

The highest magnitude piezoelectric coefficients are observed at the PZT morphotropic phase boundary MPB where the crystal structure changes abruptly between the tetragonal and rhombohedral symmetry. At the MPB the dielectric permittivity and piezoelectric coefficients reach a maximum. The MPB is located approximately at PbZrTiO or PZT 52 48 composition. In thin film form the composition and the crystalline texture must be controlled to achieve the maximum piezoelectric coefficients. For PZT 52 48 the highest coefficients are reported for a 001 textured PZT 52 48 . The increased piezoelectric response and poling efficiency near to x 0.52 is due to the increased number of allowable domain states at the MPB. At this boundary the 6 possible domain states from the tetragonal phase and the 8 possible domain states from the rhombohedral phase are equally favorable energetically thereby allowing a maximum 14 possible domain states.

To date two approaches have been taken to produce PZT thin film devices with the spontaneous polarization normal to the plane of the film and thus normal to the planar capacitor device i.e. 001 orientation. It is noted that directions in crystal lattices are defined in terms of directions l m and n known as the Miller indices. Indices l m n 100 010 and 001 represent planes orthogonal normal to the l m and n directions respectively. The crystallographic directions are lines linking nodes atoms ions or molecules of a crystal. Similarly the crystallographic planes are planes linking nodes. Some directions and planes have a higher density of nodes these dense planes have an influence on the behavior of the crystal. The notation 001 denotes the set of all planes that are equivalent to 001 as shown in by the symmetry of the lattice. Heteroepitaxial growth makes use of a crystal substrate to initiate growth of an overlying crystalline material that has a different crystal structure than the substrate. Either a polar or a non polar substrate may be used to initiate growth of a polar film. Further discussion of spontaneous polarization is found in FIG. 8 of U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0006780 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 956 369.

The first approach to producing PZT thin film devices with the spontaneous polarization normal to the plane of the film is to use a single crystal substrate and grow epitaxial layers of the bottom electrode and ferroelectric layer. The difficulty with this approach is that it places very strict requirements on the single crystal substrate and the electrode must provide an epitaxial relationship with both the single crystal substrate and the ferroelectric film. The second approach to obtaining 001 orientation is to use a seed layer and or variations in process conditions to produce a 001 textured PZT film whereby the PZT 001 planes lie parallel to the substrate plane but the relative orientations of the grains are randomly rotated about the substrate normal having no defined crystallographic role in the relationship between the substrate capacitor electrodes and the PZT.

An alternative approach proven to obtain highly 001 textured polycrystalline PZT films with enhanced piezoelectric coefficients is to use a PbTiO PT seed layer on the surface of a 111 textured Pt electrode. Unfortunately such seed layers introduce composition gradients that cause a reduction in the reliability properties including polarization retention and polarization cycling endurance. When a seed layer such as PbTiO PT is used on the surface of the bottom electrode annealing conditions PZT texture composition and optimization of the piezoelectric properties are interdependent and cannot be altered independently.

In U.S. Pat. No. 6 682 772 to Fox entitled High temperature deposition of Pt TiOfor bottom electrodes hereby incorporated by reference there is disclosed a platinum deposition method that uses a combination of an oxide adhesion layer and a high temperature thin film deposition process to produce platinum bottom electrodes for ferroelectric capacitors. TiOwas deposited on thermally grown SiOon a Si wafer. The platinum bottom electrode was deposited onto a TiOlayer at temperatures between about 300 and 800 C. Deposition at high temperatures changes the platinum stress from compressive to tensile increases platinum grain size and provides a more thermally stable substrate for subsequent PZT deposition.

Previous publications and patents do not provide a complete description of the 001 textured PZT. It is insufficient to state independently just the percentage of 100 textured grains or 001 textured grains or angular distribution width of the textured grains. In order to fully define a texture and in the present case the crystallographic efficiency or figure of merit of the PZT film the volume fraction of the 100 oriented grains relative to the total volume of the PZT film must be defined. Of the 100 volume fraction the volume fraction of the 001 oriented grains must be defined. Finally the misalignment distribution of the 001 oriented grains relative to the substrate normal which is also the electric field direction of the device must be defined. When these crystallographic parameters are defined a figure of merit for the material can be calculated.

One embodiment of the present invention comprises crystallographically textured thermally oxidized metal thin films used as a template to seed growth of crystallographically textured metal electrodes relative to the substrate growth plane . The textured metal electrodes may in turn act as a seed layer for the growth of for example perovskite structure 001 textured PZT which is the desired crystallographic orientation for optimized piezoelectric and ferroelectric device performance.

Another embodiment comprises oxide seed layers exhibiting a rocksalt crystal structure. As used herein the terminology rocksalt structure refers to a type of ionic crystal structure in which the cations have a face centered cubic arrangement with anions occupying all the octahedral holes from another perspective a face centered cubic array of anions with cations in the octahedral holes as shown in . The rocksalt structure metal oxide 100 textured thin films provide seeding templates for growth of 100 textured Pt Ir Au Pd Ru Ag Cu Ni and other face centered cubic FCC electrode metals compatible with PZT thin film growth as well as other perovskite structure thin films such as PbTiO PbLa TiO SrTiO BaTiO PbNiNbO Pb ZrTi O PbYbNbO PbScTaO BaSr TiO Pb MgNb O Pb ZnNb O PbYbNbOand combinations thereof.

One aspect of this invention is that it uses a crystallographically textured metal thin film with a thickness of 1 nm to 50 nm which is converted to a textured metal oxide by thermal oxidation. For example one embodiment comprises a Mg metal film grown by vapor deposition which grows with a hexagonal close packed crystal structure with a 0001 texture. When the 0001 textured Mg film is annealed in an oxygen containing environment the metal oxidizes and is converted to 100 textured MgO with the rocksalt structure. With this embodiment processing method the MgO Mg system is self seeding and relies on thermodynamically stable oxidation states and crystal habits when considering the growth conditions of the film. The concepts of the invention can be extended to any metal oxide metal seed layer system that can provide a good epitaxial match for the growth of Pt or related electrode materials such as Ir Au Pd Ru Ag Cu Ni. For example the approach can be applied to MgO CaO SrO NiO FeO ScO VO CrO CoO MnO CuO SrO NbO PdO CdO BaO SmO and RaO etc. It could also be used to achieve electrode crystallographic textures other than the 100 texture.

Some advantages of using the inventive thermally oxidized metal seed layers include 1 the system is self seeding i.e. there is no need for an additional seed layer containing other elements 2 only a single source material and deposition method is required to obtain the metal thin film 3 metal thin films typically grow with natural textures at temperatures below 600 C. which is readily achievable in production thin film deposition tools 4 The oxidation process can be completely separated from the deposition process such that higher temperature anneal processes can be completed in an oven instead of the metal deposition tool and 5 both the metal thin film deposition process and the oxidation processes can be used to tune the physical structure of the seed layer to obtain optimal texturing of the overlying electrode and PZT films.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

All patents patent application and other references mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. For example if one layer is formed above another intervening layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. The layers and or regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. The layers are not drawn to relative scale. Moreover variations from the shapes are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes. For example a region illustrated as a rectangle may have a variety of configurations without deviating from the present invention and or may have tapered rounded or curved features.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Metal oxide single crystals exhibiting the rocksalt structure e.g. MgO CaO and NiO provide good epitaxial substrates for the growth of 100 Pt thin films when the substrate crystal is cut to provide a 100 substrate plane. In addition it has been demonstrated that 100 textured MgO films can provide a seed layer for 100 textured Pt thin films. In order to obtain a 100 textured seed layer such as MgO on Si and SiO Si substrates other researchers have used a seed layer such as Fe to initiate the textured growth of the MgO. In addition reactive sputter deposition of MgO at high substrate temperatures greater than 600 C. has been used to deposit the textured MgO films upon which 100 textured Pt is grown. The disadvantages of these methods for obtaining 100 textured Pt electrodes include 1 the requirement for an additional seed layer such as Fe that requires an extra source material and deposition step and 2 high in situ deposition temperatures that often require specialized equipment that is not typically available in production deposition tools.

It is known that lead zirconate titanate Pb ZrTi O PZT exhibits piezoelectric properties. Materials with these properties are used to create large force large displacement actuators and sensors. PZT is one of the most economical ceramics that exhibits a high piezoelectric coefficient allowing for the use of lower voltages to achieve the same actuator performance metrics. It is highly desired to achieve highly 001 textured PZT 52 48 . Proper control of the crystalline texture will allow an increase in the piezoelectric stress constant as shown by N. Ledermann et. al. Textured piezoelectric Pb ZrTi Othin films for MEMS integration deposition and properties. Sensors and Actuators A 105 162 2003 with random order PZT 52 48 eo 7 C mand 100 oriented PZT 52 48 exhibiting 12 C m close to 60 . Enhanced 100 oriented PZT will result in substantial improvements in device performance including lower actuation voltages higher force actuation and lower power consumption. Through the use of a sol gel derived PbTiOseed layer based on the work of Paul Muralt et al. Texture Control of PbTiOand Pb Zr Ti OThin Films with TiOSeeding. Journal of Applied Physics 83.7 3835 3841 1998 highly oriented 001 PZT can be obtained with increased piezoelectric properties using a combination of optimal processing conditions for the solution chemistry platinum Pt electrode texture and rapid thermal annealing RTA conditions of the PZT thin films.

The piezoelectric coefficient of PZT is inherently linked to its crystalline quality and composition. The highest magnitude piezoelectric coefficients are observed at the PZT morphotropic phase boundary MPB where the crystal structure changes abruptly between the tetragonal and rhombohedral symmetry. At the MPB the dielectric permittivity and piezoelectric coefficients reach a maximum. The MPB is located approximately at PbZrTiO or PZT 52 48 composition.

The crystallographic texture of PZT thin films strongly influences the piezoelectric properties used in MEMS applications. When PZT films are poled to saturation the piezoelectric response increases sequentially on transforming from random orientation to 111 texture to 001 texture. Textured growth can be achieved by relying on crystal growth habit but it can also be initiated by the use of a seed layer that provides a heteroepitaxial template. The choice of template and the process used to form it determines the structural quality and ultimately influences performance and reliability of MEMS PZT devices such as switches filters and actuators. PZT 111 texture can be generated by taking advantage of a combination of crystal habit and templating mechanisms that occur in the PZT bottom electrode stack. In order to achieve a highly defined 111 textured PZT the process sequence use of seed layers and compatibility of electrode material must be carefully chosen. The process and material layer sequence may for example begin with 0001 textured Ti deposited on PECVD or thermally grown SiOon a Si wafer. The Ti is then converted to 100 textured TiOwith the rutile structure through thermal oxidation and then 111 textured Pt can be grown on top of the 100 textured TiO. The 111 textured Pt acts as a template for 111 textured PZT growth. The Ti and Pt are deposited by DC magnetron sputtering although other vapor deposition methods such as evaporation or metalorganic chemical vapor deposition can be used. Optimization of the TiOand Pt film crystallographic textures and structures have been studied by variation of sputtering deposition times temperatures and power levels anneal conditions and substrate surface roughness. The correlations between the TiO100 texture and the Pt 111 texture and the Ti 0001 texture and Pt 111 texture qualities are illustrated by the results given in respectively.

Although 111 textured PZT is produced when grown directly on 111 textured Pt it is possible to induce the growth of 001 textured PZT by placing seed layers at the PZT Pt interface Orientation control of lead zirconate titanate PZT thin films exhibiting a high degree of 001 texture is desirable due to improved polarization and piezoelectric response. One known means proven to obtain highly 001 textured polycrystalline PZT films with enhanced piezoelectric coefficients is to use a PbTiOseed layer on the surface of the bottom Pt electrode. Unfortunately such seed layers introduce composition gradients that cause a reduction in the magnitude of the ferroelectric spontaneous polarization piezoelectric coefficients and reliability properties including polarization retention and cycling endurance. When a seed layer such as PbTiO PT is used on the surface of the bottom electrode annealing conditions PZT texture composition and optimization of the piezoelectric properties are interdependent and cannot be altered independently.

The detrimental effects on the ferroelectric and piezoelectric properties of PZT due to the use of a PbTiOseed layer can be minimized by employing a process resulting in a stylo epitaxial structure. Formation of a stylo epitaxial structure allows the 001 texture of the PZT to be maximized which is desirable while it minimizes the composition gradients and electrode PZT interface defects that detrimentally affect the device performance.

A comparison of PZT capacitor devices that exhibit stylo epitaxy with those that do not exhibit stylo epitaxy is provided in the following experimental results that use varying types of Pt electrodes. Ti Pt and TiO Pt thins films were used as the base electrode for sol gel PZT thin film growth with silicon substrates and a 500 nm thermally grown silicon dioxide . The PZT may also be deposited by sputter deposition or MOCVD but a spin on chemical solution decomposition process was used for demonstrating the process herein. The Pt films were sputtered onto either the Ti metal film or a highly 100 textured titanium dioxide film grown by a thermal oxidation process of a sputtered Ti film. Oriented 001 texture in the PZT was obtained by using a seed layer of PbTiO PT that was deposited on top of the Pt electrode. When comparing the Ti Pt and TiO Pt bottom electrodes the results indicate that the use of a highly oriented TiOled to more highly 111 textured Pt and improved PT and PZT orientations. PZT 52 48 and 45 55 thin films with and without PT seed layers were deposited and examined via x ray diffraction methods XRD as a function of annealing temperature and the PbTiO PT seed layer provided significant improvement in the 001 grain orientation while suppressing the 111 grain orientation of the PZT. Improvements in the Lotgering factor f were observed from existing Ti Pt PZT process f 0.66 to samples using the PT seed layer as a template Ti Pt PT PZT f 0.87 and finally to films deposited onto the improved Pt electrodes TiO Pt PT PZT f 0.96 . The highest Lotgering factor and corresponding improvements in the piezoelectric response were achieved with the stylo epitaxial structure of TiO Pt PT PZT. The stylo epitaxy of this structure can be seen in the transmission electron micrographs TEM selected area electron diffraction SAED image and fast fourier transform FFT images shown in FIGS. to . Gowth of 111 oriented Pt grains on 100 oriented TiOgrains is observed in . The lattice image shows the alignment of the TiOand Pt grain boundaries indicating grain on grain growth. Correlated rotations of the fast fourier transform images in confirm alignment of the TiOand Pt crystal structures of the corresponding grains marked in . Similarly grain grain alignments of 001 oriented PbTiOgrains on 111 oriented Pt and 001 oriented PZT on 001 PbTiOis shown in the TEM images of . Stylo epitaxy of the TiO Pt PT PZT structure where the Pt layer has a 111 texture is confirmed by the combination of TEM FFT SAED and XRD results. By using a thermally oxidized 100 textured seed layer such as MgO the Pt is grown with a 100 texture that in turn allows the growth of PZT and other perovskite structure thin films directly on the electrode with a 100 texture and without the need for a PbTiOseed layer. This allows some degree of independence of the PZT texture formation and the optimization of the PZT processing for composition and piezoelectric property control. Ideally stylo epitaxy of the MgO Pt PZT stack is achieved resulting in 001 textured PZT.

Specifically stated embodiments of this invention allow for the fabrication of 001 textured PZT thin films without the use of a PbTiO seed layer and it allows the integration of such a structure on Si wafers with generally accepted production processes. It will also allow the growth of other perovskite structure 001 textured thin films including PbTiO PbLa TiO SrTiO BaTiO PbNiNbO Pb ZrTi O PbYbNbO PbScTaO BaSr TiO Pb MgNb O Pb ZnNb O PbYbNbOand combinations thereof.

One embodiment of the present invention comprises crystallographically textured thermally oxidized metal thin films used as a template for seeded growth of crystallographically 100 textured metal electrodes with the FCC crystal structure. The textured metal electrodes will in turn act as a seed layer for the growth of 001 textured PZT which is the desired crystallographic orientation for optimized piezoelectric and ferroelectric device performance. In particular this embodiment focuses on the use of oxide seed layers exhibiting the rocksalt structure since 100 textured thin films of this type will provide the best seeding template for growth of 100 textured Pt Ir Au Pd Ru Ag Cu Ni and other electrode metals compatible with PZT thin film growth.

Metal oxide single crystals exhibiting the rocksalt structure e.g. MgO CaO and NiO are known to provide good epitaxial substrates for the growth of 100 Pt thin films when the substrate crystal is cut to provide a 100 substrate plane. It has also been established that 100 textured MgO films can provide a seed layer for 100 textured Pt thin films. See T. Matsumoto K. Tamai Y. Murashima K. Komaki S. Nakagawa Development of Pt MgO 100 Buffer Layers for Orientation Control of Perovskite Oxide Thin Films Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 47 9 pp. 7565 7569 2008 . In order to obtain a 100 textured seed layer on Si and SiO Si substrates other researchers have used a seed layer such as Fe to initiate the textured growth of the MgO. In addition reactive sputter deposition of MgO at high substrate temperatures greater that 600 C. has been used to deposit the textured MgO films. The disadvantages of these methods for obtaining 100 textured Pt electrodes include 1 the requirement for an additional seed layer such as Fe that requires an extra source material and deposition step and 2 high in situ deposition temperatures that often require specialized equipment that is not typically available in production deposition tools.

An aspect of this invention is that it uses a crystallographically textured metal thin film with a thickness in the range of 1 nm to 1 m and more particularly in the range of 10 nm to 100 nm which is converted to a crystallographically textured metal oxide by thermal oxidation. For example a Mg metal film can be grown and in fact naturally prefers to grow with a 0001 texture. When the 0001 textured Mg film is annealed in an oxygen containing environment the metal oxidizes and is converted to 100 textured MgO with the rocksalt structure. With this processing method the MgO Mg system is self seeding and relies on thermodynamically stable oxidation states and crystal habits when considering the growth conditions of the film. This processing method can be extended to any metal oxide metal seed layer system that can provide a good epitaxial match for the growth of Pt or related electrode materials. For example the approach can be applied to MgO CaO SrO NiO FeO ScO VO CrO CoO MnO CuO SrO NbO PdO CdO BaO SmO and RaO etc. The technique of forming seed layers from textured metal films could also be used to achieve electrode crystallographic textures other than the 100 texture.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a schematic diagram of textured metal deposition of a layer on a layer or layers such as an SiOlayer on an Si layer or substrate . As a further example magnesium layer B may be deposited by a DC magnetron sputtering in argon on layers and .

To ensure a sharp ferroelectric electrode interface profile and prevent interdiffusion the bottom electrode must exhibit a high density with a minimum of diffusion pathways including pores and grain boundaries and remain stable without degradation of the density and topography. If Pb depletion occurs at the ferroelectric electrode interface a low density electrode can allow Pb to diffuse completely through the Pt into the underlying SiOlayer. Pb reaction with SiOcauses both crystalline and amorphous lead silicate formation compromising the electronic properties of the substrate and the PZT film.

Because crystallographic fiber texture is sensitive to composition density and surface roughness texture is an extremely useful parameter for statistical process control of Pt and PZT. A powder diffractometer is utilized to obtain diffraction data for Ti TiO Pt Mg and MgO thin films on SiOcoated Si substrates. Quantitative analysis of the diffraction data was used to determine the TiOand Pt deposition conditions resulting in the highest level of Pt 111 texture which typically corresponds to optimal density and a minimized Pt and Pb diffusion during subsequent PZT processing. The objective of the Pt texture optimization study was to improve orientation density and the interdependent electrical properties of the subsequently deposited PZT.

Four inch diameter silicon substrates were obtained with 500 nm 5 plus or minus five percent thermal oxide from both Addison and Silicon Quest International. Titanium films were sputter deposited on the as received SiOat a substrate temperature of 40 C. using a Unaxis Clusterline 200 chamber configured with a DC rotating magnet magnetron and a 250 mm diameter 99.99 pure Ti target. The deposited Ti thin films were converted to TiOwith an oxygen anneal in a Bruce Technologies International 6 in. diameter quartz tube furnace. The furnace was heated with 5 SLM flowing N to the setpoint 650 C. 800 C. . Then the wafer carrier boat was loaded and pushed into the tube hot zone over a period of 10 min. At the start of the wafer push step the Nflow was turned off and the Ogas flow was ramped up to 10 SLM. After the wafer push the wafers were held in the hot zone for either 15 or 30 min. The boat was then pulled from the hot zone over a period of 10 min. When the wafers were fully retracted the Oflow was turned off and the Nflow was resumed at 5 SLM. The wafers were removed from the boat loader after allowing them to cool for at least 10 min. After the oxidation anneal Pt was sputter deposited onto the TiOusing a second Unaxis Clusterline 200 chamber configured with a DC rotating magnet magnetron and a 99.99 pure 250 mm diameter Pt target. All Pt depositions were completed with the same conditions of 0.5 kW 50 sccm Ar 30.5 s and a substrate setpoint temperature of 500 C. The resulting Pt films were nominally 100 nm in thickness. To condition the chamber and target test wafers were deposited prior to sample wafer depositions thereby ensuring stability of the deposition conditions. Characterization of the as deposited metal films included multi site 4 point probe measurements of the sheet resistance and single site X ray diffraction XRD measurements while characterization of the annealed TiOfilms included multi site ellipsometry measurements of thickness and refractive index and single site XRD measurements. The sheet resistances R of Ti and Pt films were measured on a Prometrics Versaprobe VP10 and a Four Dimensions Model 280 Automatic Four Point Probe Meter respectively. A J. A. Woollam ellipsometer model M 2000F was used for measuring the thickness and refractive index of the as received SiOcoatings and the annealed TiOfilms using a trial thickness of 500 nm 30 nm for SiO TiO Si and SiOreference data and TiOCauchy layer fitting parameters A 2.5 and B 0.05. A Rigaku Ultima III powder diffractometer with Bragg Brentano optics Cu X ray source graphite monochromator on the detector arm and scintillation detector was used to make 2 and rocking curve measurements on the thin film PZT Pt TiOand Ti coated wafers. General 2 measurements were collected using a continuous scan of 2 min and data collection step size of 0.01 over a range of 10 90 . Using a continuous scan rate of 1 min and step size of 0.02 local Ti 200 and 400 and Pt 111 and 222 scans were measured to quantify the position of the maximum 2 peak intensities immediately followed by a rocking curve scan at a continuous rate of 5 20 sec count and a step size of 0.02 0.2 for Ti 1.0 min and step size of 0.01 for Pt at the fixed Bragg angle. A single peak Pearson VII algorithm was used to fit the measured diffraction peaks and obtain quantitative values of the rocking curve at full width half maximum RC FWHM . Because the higher angle Pt 222 peak provided a lower intensity than the Pt 111 peak it was used to assure that all quantitative measurements were collected in the linear response range of the diffractometer detector.

A basic analysis of the crystallography of Ti TiO Pt and PZT films was completed by collecting a 2 scan of samples from each deposition condition. Representative spectra are shown in and . shows a 2 XRD spectrum for a Ti thin film deposited at 0.5 kW 30 sccm Ar 24 s and 40 C. The as deposited Ti film had a nominal thickness of 21 nm and a measured sheet resistance of 89.9 Ohm sq. Since only two Ti 0001 reflections the 0002 and 0004 peaks of the hexagonal close packed HCP structure ICDD card 44 1294 are observed in addition to the substrate generated peaks described above it can be concluded that the Ti film is strongly 0001 textured with the basal plane of the HCP structure lying in the plane of the substrate. This conclusion was also confirmed by measuring the 0002 rocking curves of the Ti films and observing RC FWHM rocking curve full width at half maximum intensity that were consistent with 0001 texture but varied with deposition conditions. An illustration of the ideal atomic level HCP 0001 basal plane of the Ti as viewed along the 0001 direction is given in . Broadening of the RC FWHM results from increased tilting of Ti grains such that the 0001 plane is not perfectly parallel with the planar substrate surface. The study presented here focused on finding a combination of Ti deposition and oxidation anneal conditions that resulted in a baseline 100 textured TiOtemplate for 111 textured Pt growth and enhanced electrode temperature stability. Based on the collected data it was determined that the 0001 texture distribution of the Ti film determines the ultimate TiO100 texture distribution that can be achieved via oxidation annealing but the data presented below indicates that Ti texture is only one factor contributing to the final TiOtexture quality. An example of a diffraction pattern for a TiOfilm formed by thermal oxidation of the Ti film annealed at 750 C. for 30 min is shown in . The TiOfilm had a measured thickness of 32 nm and refractive index of 2.65. The diffraction pattern exhibits only rutile 200 and 400 peaks indicative of a 100 textured TiOfilm. Variation in anneal temperature 650 800 C. and anneal time 15 30 min strongly affected the 200 and 400 TiOdiffraction peak positions intensities and widths but did not cause the appearance of any new diffraction peaks. The quantified parameters of the 200 and 400 TiOpeaks reached a plateau at 750 800 C. for 30 min anneal times suggesting completion of the Ti to TiOconversion under these conditions.

From these observations along with the measurements summarized in and it can be concluded that the original Ti 0001 texture is maintained during the oxidation process and that the oxygen merely stuffs the Ti lattice to form the rutile structure in the TiOfilm with 100 texture. Such an oxidation mechanism is consistent with the 0001 Ti 010 TiOepitaxial relationship reported for rutile scale formed on bulk Ti metal. An as deposited Ti spectrum superimposed on the TiOspectrum shows consistency in how the XRD data is collected for quantitative analysis.

An evaluation of the Pt electrode film sheet resistance did not show any obvious differences related to variations of the TiOseed layer. The sheet resistivity of the Pt was 1.25 Ohms sq 0.2 Ohms sq standard deviation. The constancy of the Pt sheet resistance can be expected since all wafers were coated under fixed Pt deposition conditions and because the Pt exhibits isotropic conductivity that is independent of crystallographic texture. Despite the constancy of the Pt sheet resistance the Pt texture is found to vary significantly and in accordance with the underlying TiOseed layer and its parent Ti layer from which the thermal oxidized TiOwas grown. An example XRD spectrum of a highly 111 textured Pt film is shown in which also shows the superposed spectra for 0001 textured Ti and 100 textured TiOseed layers. The expanded y scale allows one to clearly inspect the background intensity and observe that only the 111 and 222 peaks the tops of these Gaussian shaped peaks are cut off occur in the Pt spectrum. In addition to the 2 XRD observations measurements on the 111 and 222 Pt peak rocking curves support the conclusion that the Pt film is 111 textured. Over the range of TiOseed layer thicknesses and processing conditions investigated the Pt 111 and 222 RC FWHM varied between 1 and 8 . In order to prove that the textured TiOis acting as a seed layer for growth of 111 textured Pt a correlation between the textures of the two layers must be established. Such a correlation is shown in where it can be seen that the Pt 222 RC FWHM increases linearly with increasing TiO200 RC FWHM. Additionally it was observed that for constant thickness TiOand Pt films an increase in the intensity of the h00 TiOdiffraction peaks directly corresponds to an increased intensity for the hhh Pt diffraction peaks which is consistent with grain to grain heteroepitaxial behavior. An illustration of the heteroepitaxial relationship between the Pt 111 plane and the oxygen terminated 100 plane of rutile structure TiOis shown in . Direct observations of the Pt and TiOgrain by grain alignment are shown in and stylo epitaxy is supported by the corresponding rotations of the FFT from the contacting Pt and TiOgrains.

Proof that that the as deposited Ti 0001 texture determines and effectively seeds the thermally oxidized TiO100 texture is also provided by the linear relationship between the Pt 222 RC FWHM and the Ti 0001 RC FWHM shown in . The linear correlation between the Pt 222 RC FWHM and the Ti 0001 RC FWHM has the same slope of 0.5 as observed for the correlation between Pt and TiOshown in . The observation that the TiOtexture is maintained and directly correlated to the Ti texture distribution is an extremely important point because it indicates that the sequence of process steps and resulting textures could be applied to other metal metal oxide thin film systems. It also indicates that other metal metal oxide systems could be used for seeding textured growth of Pt electrodes via a heteroepitaxial relationship.

Finally it was determined that the highly 111 textured Pt grown on the 100 textured TiOseed layer resulted in improved 111 textured PZT due to templating from the improved 111 textured Pt electrode. Templating was confirmed by comparing the RC FWHM of the Pt and PZT films. The improved 111 texture of the PZT was confirmed by comparing the PZT film Lotgering factors of 0.97 and 0.66 for optimized and non optimized 111 textured Pt electrodes respectively. shows the XRD spectrum for a PZT film with Zr Ti 0.45 0.55 on the 111 textured TiO Pt electrode superposed onto the spectra of just the Pt and TiO.

Ti thin films in the range of 10 50 nm thickness can be deposited with a 0001 textured HCP structure and converted to a 100 textured TiOwith the rutile structure by using a thermal oxidation process. The 100 textured TiOcan be used as a seed layer to grow a 111 textured Pt via localized heteroepitaxy. Correlation of the 100 TiOand 222 Pt rocking curve FWHM was used to determine the heteroepitaxy seeding effect. The Pt electrode process change that results in improved 111 textured Pt has resulted in the 111 textured PZT growth. The work of L. M. Sanchez D. M. Potrepka G. R. Fox I. Takeuchi and R. G. Polcawich entitled Improving PZT Thin Film Texture Through Pt Metallization and Seed Layers Mat. Res. Symp. Proc. Fall 2010 Mat. Res. Soc. Warrendale Pa. Manuscript S4.9 hereby incorporated by reference builds further on this result to show that it has also enabled significant improvements in 100 textured PZT growth when using a lead titanate seed layer on a Pt electrode surface.

A similar sequence of processing steps and analysis to that described above for the Ti TiOmaterial system was extended to the Mg MgO system. Like Ti Mg exhibits the HCP crystal structure and it can be deposited with a 0001 texture by vapor deposition. The 0001 texture of Mg films deposited by DC magnetron sputtering under a variety of conditions was confirmed by XRD diffraction. graphically illustrates overlapping XRD 2 scans of as deposited Mg films exhibiting only 0001 diffraction peaks and thus confirming the HCP structure Mg 0001 texture. graphically illustrates overlapping XRD rocking curves of the as deposited Mg films of various thicknesses exhibiting only 0001 texture with a tilt distribution width RC FWHM of less than 15 . An illustration of the ideal atomic level HCP 0001 basal plane of the Mg as viewed along the 0001 direction is given in . Broadening of the RC FWHM results from increased tilting of Mg grains such that the 0001 plane is not perfectly parallel with the planar substrate surface.

Unlike Ti which is thermally oxidized to produce the rutile structure Mg is thermally oxidized and it produces MgO with the rocksalt crystal structure. graphically illustrates an x ray diffraction XRD 2 scan of an MgO film formed by thermal oxidation of an Mg film heated in flowing oxygen at 625 C. for 30 min The XRD of the MgO confirms the formation of the rocksalt structure and MgO 100 texture.

From the observations on the Mg MgO system it can be concluded that metals such as Mg Ca Sr Ni Fe Sc V Cr Co Mn Cu Sr Nb Pd Cd Ba Sm Ra and other metals exhibiting the HCP crystal structure can be sputter deposited to produce 0001 texture films. The 0001 textured metal films can then be thermally oxidized to produce the metal oxide such as MgO CaO SrO NiO FeO ScO VO CrO CoO MnO CuO SrO NbO PdO CdO BaO SmO and RaO with a rocksalt crystal structure. During thermal oxidation the 0001 texture distribution of the metal is maintained such that the rocksalt structure 100 texture distribution of the metal oxide film is similar.

When Pt is deposited onto the exposed surface of the 100 textured MgO seed layer 100 textured Pt is produced due to a grain by grain heteroepitaxial interface between the 100 plane of Pt and the 100 plane of MgO. illustrates as an embodiment example sputter deposited platinum stylo epitaxial layer and the registration of the Pt atoms in the 100 plane with the interstices of the MgO rocksalt 100 plane as viewed along the 100 direction. The 100 Pt and 100 MgO crystal structure registration heteroepitaxy occurs on a grain by grain basis. Alternative electrode metals such as Ir Au Pd Ru Ag Cu Ni and other FCC structure metals can be seeded with MgO or related metal oxides to produce similarly 100 textured electrodes.

Some advantages of using the concepts and or principles of the present invention relative to prior art devices include 1 The thermal oxidation method of forming a rocksalt structure seed layer is self seeding for production of 100 texture metal oxide films.

2 Only a single source material and deposition method is required e.g. Mg metal target and sputter deposition tool for producing the metal thin film.

3 The metal films for the seed layer can be grown with a thermodynamically stable texture at low temperatures e.g. 

4 The texture of the metal thin film and subsequently formed oxide can be altered by changes in the metal thin film deposition conditions. This will allow independent control of the texture of the subsequently deposited electrode and PZT films altered or tuned by changes in the metal film processing. 5 The oxidation process for converting the metal thin film to the oxide seed layer can be completely separated from the deposition process. The oxidation can be completed in a separate annealing tool instead of inside the metal deposition system. 6 Oxidation of the metal can be fully completed in order to obtain a thermodynamically stable film that is stable during subsequent electrode and PZT deposition. 7 The metal film could be incompletely oxidized or over oxidized to tune the texture of the subsequent electrode and PZT layers. 8 Gaseous species other than oxygen such as N F Cl C could be incorporated in the oxidizing gas during the metal seed layer anneal in order to tune the seed layer texture and the texture of the subsequently deposited electrode and PZT layers. Potential Uses

Preferred embodiments and or principles of the present invention may be used in piezoelectric MEMS devices such as micro switches resonators micro robotic actuators micromotors and sensors. Additionally the invention can be used in ferroelectric random access memory FRAM resistive random access memories photovoltaic devices and biocompatible electrodes.

5 Electrodes for biological and medical applications. Electrodes with different textures will likely have different activities and interactions with bio molecules and structures.

Indices used herein relate to Miller indices that are used in accordance with a crystallography notation system for planes and directions in crystal Bravais lattices. A family of lattice planes is determined by three integers h k and l the Miller indices . They are written hkl and each index denotes a plane. By convention negative integers are written with a bar as in 3 for 3. The integers are usually written in lowest terms i.e. their greatest common divisor should be 1. For example in a cubic Bravais lattice the Miller index 100 represents a plane orthogonal to direction h index 010 represents a plane orthogonal to direction k and index 001 represents a plane orthogonal to l. There are also several related notations the notation hkl denotes the set of all planes that are equivalent to hkl by the symmetry of the lattice. In the context of crystal directions not planes the corresponding notations are hkl with square instead of round brackets denotes a direction in the basis of the direct lattice vectors instead of the reciprocal lattice and similarly the notation hkl denotes the set of all directions that are equivalent to hkl by symmetry. Further information can be obtained in Wikipedia. As used herein the terminology register in relation to a crystallographic structure means with respect to two adjacent granular layers the grains in a first granular layer are in registration with and contacting grains in the adjacent layer. For example in an embodiment each ferroelectric grain is in registration with one electrode grain.

The terminology perovskite structure is any material with the same type of crystal structure as calcium titanium oxide CaTiO known as the perovskite structure or XIIA2 VIB4 X2 3 with the oxygen in the face centers. The general chemical formula for perovskite compounds is ABX where A and B are two cations of very different sizes and X is an anion that bonds to both. The A atoms are larger than the B atoms. The ideal cubic symmetry structure has the B cation in 6 fold coordination surrounded by an octahedron of anions and the A cation in 12 fold cuboctahedral coordination. The relative ion size requirements for stability of the cubic structure are quite stringent so slight buckling and distortion can produce several lower symmetry distorted versions in which the coordination numbers of A cations B cations or both are reduced. Generally most perovskites unlike Pt have some distortion of the cubic symmetry and may even may octahedral tilting.

As used herein piezoelectric coefficient or Piezoelectric Modulus also known as d for example d quantifies the volume change when a piezoelectic material is subject to an electric field or the polarization on application of a stress 

As used herein texture measurements refer to measurements used to determine the orientation distribution of crystalline grains in a polycrystalline sample. A material is termed textured if the grains are aligned in a preferred orientation along certain lattice planes.

As used herein epitaxy refers to the deposition of a crystalline overlayer on a crystalline substrate where the overlayer is in registry with the substrate at a preferred orientation of the overlayer with respect to the substrate for epitaxial growth. The overlayer is called an epitaxial film or epitaxial layer. Epitaxial deposition of a layer on a substrate matches the crystalline order of the substrate.

As used herein the terminology growth plane refers to the epitaxial growth planes. Growth planes and their crystallographic axes may be expressed as for example 112 111 X 1100 0001 Y where X and Y are crystal materials and the 111 and 0001 are faces and the brackets indicate crystallographic axes. For example the perovskite crystal orientation having a 001 orientation means that the 001 planes of the perovskite crystal lie parallel to the growth plane.

As used herein the term stylo means in combination with epitaxy column pillar tube or column like crystal growth.

As used herein the terms columns or column like structures refer to the column like structures grown on top of granular regions. The column like structures and granular regions are substantially coextensive.

As used herein the terminology thin film is a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer monolayer to several micrometers in thickness.

As used herein the terminology rutile refers to a mineral composed primarily of the preferred polymorph of titanium dioxide TiO. Rutile is the most common natural form of TiO.

As used herein the terminology perovskite means is the crystal structure as depicted in of any material with the same or substantially the same type of crystal structure as calcium titanium oxide CaTiO known as the perovskite structure.

As used herein the expression full width at half maximum FWHM is an expression of the extent of a function given by the difference between the two extreme values of the independent variable at which the dependent variable is equal to half of its maximum value.

As used herein the terminology crystallites refer to small microscopic crystals that held together through highly defective boundaries constitute a polycrystalline solid. Crystallites are also referred to as grains.

As used herein the terminology rocksalt or sodium chloride halite structure refers to a structure in which each of the two atom types forms a separate face centered cubic lattice with the two lattices interpenetrating.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

