---

title: Sensor array with edge pattern
abstract: A capacitive sensor array may include a first set of sensor electrodes and a second set of sensor electrodes. Each of the second set of sensor electrodes may intersect each of the first set of sensor electrodes to form a plurality of unit cells each corresponding to a pair of sensor electrodes including one of the first set of sensor electrodes and one of the second set of sensor electrodes. Each point within each of the plurality of unit cells may nearer to a gap between the pair of sensor electrodes corresponding to the unit cell than to a gap between any different pair of sensor electrodes, and a first trace pattern within a first unit cell of the plurality of unit cells may be different from a second trace pattern within an adjacent unit cell of the plurality of unit cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600125&OS=09600125&RS=09600125
owner: CTPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
number: 09600125
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 672 992 filed on Jul. 18 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to trace patterns of electrodes in capacitive touch sensor arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor electrodes that detect the position of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment a capacitive sensor array having intersecting row and column sensor electrodes may be constructed such that the electrodes have a different pattern of conductive material in a first region than in a second region. For example a region that includes the corners and edges of the sensor array may have a different pattern than a region that includes the core of the sensor array.

In one embodiment each region may be composed of a number of unit cells which each correspond to a pair of sensor electrodes including a row sensor electrode and a column sensor electrode. The unit cell thus identifies an area of the capacitive sensor array where the mutual capacitance between the pair of electrodes may be affected by a finger or other conductive object proximate to the surface of the sensor array. In one embodiment the pattern of conductive material making up the portions of the sensor electrodes within one of the unit cells in a first region may differ from a pattern of conductive material making up portions of the sensor electrodes within an adjacent unit cell in a different region.

In one embodiment a capacitance sensor coupled with a capacitive sensor array as described above may be used to scan the capacitive sensor array by measuring the self capacitances associated with each sensor electrode or the mutual capacitances between pairs of sensor electrodes. The capacitance sensor may then transmit the measured capacitance values to a host where the capacitance values may be further processed to determine for example locations of fingers or other conductive objects near or touching the surface of the capacitive sensor array. In one embodiment the host compensates for the capacitance differences between the regions having different patterns of conductive traces.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor electrode N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor electrode detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a change in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculate high precision locations from the processing device .

The sensor array illustrated in includes sensor electrodes arranged in a diamond pattern. Specifically the sensor electrodes of sensor array are arranged in a single solid diamond SSD pattern. illustrates a capacitive sensor array having an alternate embodiment of the diamond pattern which is the dual solid diamond DSD pattern. Each of the sensor electrodes of capacitive sensor array includes two rows or columns of electrically connected diamond shaped traces. Relative to the SSD pattern the DSD pattern has improved signal disparity characteristics due to an increase in the coupling between TX and RX sensor electrodes while maintaining the same self capacitance coupling possible between each sensor electrode and a conductive object near the sensor electrode. The DSD pattern may also provide higher sensitivity for tracking smaller objects such as the point of a stylus as compared to patterns having larger features such as SSD. However the DSD pattern also increases the number of bridges such as bridge used to create the pattern which may result in decreased manufacturing yield. The increased number of bridges may also be visible if metal bridges are used. For example sensor array includes four bridges within unit cell .

As illustrated in one embodiment of a sensor array may be constructed which has a first region having a diamond pattern such as a SSD or DSD pattern and a second region having a pattern different from the diamond pattern. For example the second region may have a comb pattern.

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may include a first set of column sensor electrodes each intersecting with each of a second set of row sensor electrodes to form a number of unit cells such as unit cells and . Each of the unit cells corresponds to a pair of sensor electrodes including a row sensor electrode and a column sensor electrode. For example unit cell corresponds to the pair of sensor electrodes and .

In one embodiment each point within a particular unit cell is nearer to a gap between the corresponding pair of sensor electrodes than to a gap between any other pair including a row and a column sensor electrode. For example each point within unit cell is nearest to a gap between sensor electrode and sensor electrode . Thus the unit cell encloses an area where a finger or other conductive object may most strongly affect the mutual capacitance between sensor electrodes and .

In one embodiment a first trace pattern within a first unit cell may be different from a second trace pattern within an adjacent unit cell. For example the trace pattern within the unit cell which is associated with sensor electrodes and is different from the trace pattern within the adjacent unit cell . The trace pattern within each of these unit cells refers to the pattern of conductive material that makes up the portions of sensor electrodes within the unit cells.

In one embodiment the area of the capacitive sensor array may be divided into regions where each unit cell in the same region contains substantially the same trace pattern. In one embodiment at least one of the regions such as edge region may be located at an edge of the capacitive sensor array while a core region is located at the center of the sensor array . In one embodiment the edge region may partially or completely surround the core region and may include some or all of the unit cells that are located at an edge of the sensor array . The edge region includes edge unit cells such as unit cell and corner unit cell which include similar trace patterns.

In one embodiment the trace patterns within the unit cells of region may resemble two combs having interleaved teeth with one comb like trace forming a portion of a row sensor element and the other comb like trace forming a portion of a column sensor element. This comb pattern substantially differs from the single solid diamond SSD pattern of the unit cells within the core region such as unit cell .

In one embodiment the differences between the unit cell trace patterns of the different regions are substantially different for example the differences between the trace patterns may be greater than what may be attributable to manufacturing tolerances. In one embodiment the trace patterns between different regions may differ by other characteristics.

In one embodiment a first trace pattern of a unit cell in a first region may differ from a second trace pattern of a unit cell in an adjacent region by the number of terminal branches that terminate within the unit cell. Comparing unit cell with unit cell for example unit cell includes four terminal branches for each portion of sensor electrode within the unit cell which is greater than the number of terminal branches terminating within unit cell . In one embodiment a terminal branch may be considered to be a conductive trace that branches away from a main trace of a sensor electrode and terminates.

In one embodiment the trace pattern for the first unit cell may have a longer edge length than the trace pattern for the adjacent unit cell. For example the length of the edges of the traces within unit cell may be longer than the edges of the traces within the adjacent unit cell .

In one embodiment the boundary length between the portions of the sensor electrodes within a first unit cell in the first region may be longer than the boundary length between the portions of the sensor electrodes within a unit cell in the adjacent region. The boundary length between portions of two electrodes may be considered to be the length of the edges of the electrodes that face each other.

In one embodiment the unit cells in one region may be smaller or larger in area than the unit cells in another region. For example the edge unit cell may enclose a smaller area than the unit cell . In one embodiment each of the smaller unit cells may be less than or equal to approximately 80 of the size of one of the larger unit cells. For example each of the cells in the edge region may be 80 of the size in area of one of the unit cells in the core region .

In one embodiment of a capacitive sensor array the unit cells in the core may have X and Y dimensions of 5 5 mm the corner unit cells may have dimensions of 4 4 mm and 4 5 mm and 5 4 mm for the edges of the sensor along the Y axis and X axis respectively.

In one embodiment the geometries of the conductive traces in the unit cells may have other differing characteristics including but not limited to the average distance between the different sensor electrodes as seen in unit cells and the area of the conductive material enclosed within the unit cell or the number of ear or mouth vertexes of the conductive traces within the unit cell.

In one embodiment the differences between the unit cell trace patterns of the different regions may result in different capacitances between the corresponding pairs of sensor electrodes. For example a capacitance Cattributable to the portions of the sensor electrodes within a unit cell in a first region may be greater or less than a capacitance Cattributable to the portions of the sensor electrodes within a unit cell in a second region due to the different trace patterns within the unit cells. More specifically the edge unit cell includes portions of sensor electrodes and the capacitance Cbetween the portions of electrodes and within the unit cell may be greater than a capacitance Cbetween the portions of electrodes and which are within the unit cell in an adjacent region.

In one embodiment the responsiveness of the unit cell measured as a change in capacitance C between a capacitance measured when a conductive object is present and a capacitance measured when a conductive object is not present may also differ between unit cells in a first region and unit cells in the adjacent region as a result of different trace geometries in the unit cells. For example unit cells in an edge region may have a greater Cthan unit cells in a core region of the capacitive sensor array.

In one embodiment the unit cells in different regions may despite having different trace patterns or dimensions still have similar Cand Cvalues. In one embodiment the smaller unit cells such as those in an edge region may have Cor Cvalues that are maximized by the trace pattern to approximate or even exceed the Cand Cvalues of the unit cells in the core region.

One embodiment of a capacitive sensing system configured to acquire capacitance measurements from the capacitive sensor array may include firmware for compensating for this difference in capacitance for the unit cells in different regions. In one embodiment this compensation may be accomplished with a baseline compensation scheme using a table of calculated or empirically determined calibration values.

With reference to the terminal branches of the row and column sensor electrodes within the edge region are perpendicular to a near edge of the capacitive sensor array . In an alternative embodiment of a capacitive sensor array the terminal branches are parallel to a near edge of the sensor array .

In one embodiment the terminal branches for all unit cells in the edge region may be oriented along the same axis. For example the terminal branches of all unit cells in the edge region may be parallel to each other and may be aligned along the X axis the Y axis or not aligned to either axis.

With reference to the terminal branches of edge electrodes such as electrode and are each connected to a main trace which has a portion within each of the unit cells through which the edge electrode runs. As illustrated in the main trace for these edge traces is positioned at the edge of the sensor array so that no part of the edge electrode overlaps a part of another sensor electrode.

In contrast the sensor array in has edge electrodes with a main trace that is positioned away from the edge of the sensor array . Thus the main traces of the edge electrodes such as electrode may overlap other sensor electrodes within the unit cells through which the main traces pass at intersections such as intersection . In one embodiment a bridge may be used to cross over portions of other sensor elements at these intersections.

In one embodiment the difference in Cbetween the spiral pattern in the edge region and the comb pattern in the core region may be compensated using a baseline compensation scheme. For example the unit cells in the edge region may have a larger capacitance Cthan the core region unit cells having a comb pattern thus a compensation current may be added or subtracted from an integration node to offset the difference in baseline capacitance.

In one embodiment the dimensions of various parts of the spiral such as the trace widths and distances between traces may be varied to achieve Cor Cvalues for the unit cell that are equal to or higher than the Cor Cvalues for unit cells in the core region .

In one embodiment the unit cells in the core region and the edge region may have different dimensions. For example the unit cells in the core region may have X and Y dimensions of 5 5 mm the corner unit cells may have dimensions of 4 4 mm and 4 5 mm and 5 4 mm for the edges of the sensor along the Y axis and X axis respectively.

In one embodiment the shape of the TX electrodes performs a shielding function by collectively covering most of the area of the sensor array . However the RX sensor elements may still be modified so that unit cells located in different regions contain different trace patterns. For example the unit cells in the edge region each have a different trace geometry than the unit cells in the core region . In one embodiment the unit cells in the edge region may have additional connecting traces that connect the main traces together in parallel.

In trace pattern is similar to pattern except that the terminal branches extend from the central main trace. In trace pattern also includes terminal branches that extend from a central main trace but has fewer connecting traces.

Trace patterns each comprise three main traces along with terminal branches extending from the main traces. Trace pattern includes two terminal branches such as branches extending from either side of each main trace. In one embodiment the positions of these terminal branches may be staggered. Trace pattern includes three main traces. The outer main traces such as main trace are each connected to multiple pairs of terminal branches such as branches extending away from the main trace. In trace pattern a pair of terminal branches extend away from the central main trace while a single terminal branch extends away from one side of each of the outer main traces.

In one embodiment the widths of the traces in the core region may differ from the widths of the traces in the edge region . In one embodiment the traces in the core region may be 0.4 mm while the traces in the edge region are 0.55 mm. In one embodiment the edge region unit cells may have the approximately the same Cas the core region unit cells. In an alternative embodiment the edge region unit cells may have a greater Cthan the core region unit cells.

As illustrated in the RX column sensor electrode may include a number of terminal branches that are perpendicular relative to the traces of other sensor electrodes. Furthermore in this arrangement the sensor electrode in the corner unit cell partially overlaps with neighboring unit cells. In one embodiment the baseline capacitance Cof the corner cell in the layout may be close to the Cvalues for the other unit cells in the sensor array .

In one embodiment the sensor electrode may have a single main trace to connect a number of terminal branches and this main trace may be located at the edge of the sensor array . In one embodiment since the main trace is at the edge of the sensor array it may be constructed from metal without becoming a conspicuous visual feature. For example a metal main trace at the edge of the sensor array may be located outside of a visible area if the sensor array is used in an application such as a touch screen display.

In one embodiment capacitive sensor array illustrated in may include sensor electrodes which are primarily made from a material such as Indium Tin Oxide ITO however in contrast with the corresponding sensor electrode of sensor array the resistance of sensor electrode may be reduced by including a metal strip running along an edge of the electrode which is also along the edge of the capacitive sensor array . In this location the metal strip may be located outside a visible area of the sensor array for example if the capacitive sensor array is used in a touch screen display. Thus the trace pattern for the unit cells in the edge region differ from the trace patterns of unit cells in other regions which do not include the metal strip.

In one embodiment a metal strip may be applied to sensor electrodes in both the X and Y directions as illustrated in . The TX sensor electrode includes a metal strip at the edge of the sensor array while the RX sensor electrode also includes a metal strip along another edge of the sensor array . In one embodiment the metal strip electrically connects portions of the sensor electrode . In one embodiment the metal strips in sensor arrays and may reduce the resistance of the sensor electrodes to which they are applied. In one embodiment the metal strips may extend for less than the entire length of the sensor electrode such that the sensor electrode may be designed to have a specific resistance.

In one embodiment the application of metal features at an edge of a sensor array may also be applied to a sensor array having a diamond pattern as illustrated with reference to .

In the foregoing embodiments various modifications can be made for example row sensor electrodes and column sensor electrodes may be interchanged and row or column sensor electrodes may be used as either TX or RX sensor electrodes. Furthermore in some embodiments intersections between row and column sensor electrodes may be replaced with conductive bridges. For example bridges may be used to electrically connect portions of sensor electrodes when both row and column sensor electrodes are constructed from a single layer of conductive material. As described herein conductive electrodes that are electrically connected or electrically coupled may be coupled such that a relatively low resistance conductive path exists between the conductive electrodes.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

