---

title: System and method for facilitating cash payment transactions using a mobile device
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems and methods for facilitating transactions between a merchant-partner and an end-user. In one embodiment, a service provider: (a) stages a transaction between a merchant and a consumer; (b) creates a transaction-specific unique reference locator (URL) linked to a transaction-specific web page; and (c) sends the transaction-specific URL to the consumer's mobile device. Whereupon the consumer clicks on the transaction specific URL on their mobile device, the service provider displays a token ID on the transaction-specific web page. The token ID is linked to the staged transaction and is used to initiate data communication between a point-of-sale (POS) terminal and the service provider's processing unit. The service provider can then: receive confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and a payment to the POS terminal; display a transaction receipt on the transaction-specific web page; and/or notify the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626701&OS=09626701&RS=09626701
owner: PayNearMe, Inc.
number: 09626701
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120523
---
Disclosed herein are systems and methods for facilitating transactions between a merchant partner and an end user. More specifically presented herein are systems and methods for facilitating cash payment transactions using an end user s mobile device. For example in one embodiment the systems and methods generally call for a service provider a staging a transaction between a merchant and a consumer b obtaining the consumer s contact information e.g. the consumer s mobile telephone number or e mail address c creating a transaction specific unique reference locator URL linked to a transaction specific web page and d sending the transaction specific URL to the consumer. Whereupon the consumer accesses the transaction specific web page from a mobile device via the transaction specific URL the service provider e displays a token ID on the transaction specific web page. The token ID which is linked to the staged transaction is then used to initiate data communication between a point of sale POS terminal and the service provider s processing unit. The service provider can then f receive confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and a payment to the POS terminal g display a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page and or h notify the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment.

Aspects of the present invention are particularly useful in providing merchants e.g. web based or catalog based merchants with a means for conducting fast easy and secure cash transactions with consumers. The present invention is also particularly useful in facilitating cash transactions such as loan repayments collections money transfers bill payments remote deposits etc.

Except for any term definitions that conflict with the term definitions provided herein the following related co owned and co pending applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 13 087 271 13 123 067 13 175 657 13 209 291 13 267 642 13 298 179 and 13 312 835.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to systems and methods for facilitating transactions between a merchant partner and an end user. For example the present invention provides a merchant partner with a means for conducting a cash transaction via a remote point of sale POS terminal. The present invention is particularly useful in facilitating transactions such as sale purchase agreements loan repayments collections money transfers bill payments remote deposits etc. In one embodiment a service provider and or POS terminal serves as an intermediary between a merchant partner and the end user. The system allows the end user to pay for the merchant partner s goods services obligations in cash or cash equivalents at a POS terminal. The POS terminal and or service provider then notifies the merchant partner that the end user has made a payment. After the merchant partner has received a notification validation or otherwise confirmation of payment the merchant partner can securely complete the agreed upon transaction between the merchant partner and the end user.

However in order for such system to be commercially viable the systems and methods presented generally include the process steps of a staging a transaction between the merchant partner and the end user b tokenizing the transaction by linking one or more transaction instructions to one or more token IDs c providing the end user with the one or more token IDs wherein the end user can then present the token ID and a payment to a POS terminal d receiving confirmation that the end user has presented to a POS terminal the token ID and a payment in accordance with the one or more transaction instructions e notifying the merchant partner that the end user provided the payment to the POS terminal and f settling the transaction between the POS terminal and the merchant partner. Similar systems and methods are discussed in more detail in the above reference co owned and co pending applications which have been incorporated by reference.

The present invention expands on and further develops the systems and methods disclosed in the above referenced applications. More specifically presented herein are systems and methods for facilitating cash payment transactions using an end user s mobile device. Amongst other things the presented systems and methods provide a unique and effective way of providing the end user with the token ID using the functionality of an end user s mobile device. For example in one embodiment the systems and methods generally call for a service provider a staging a transaction between a merchant and a consumer b obtaining the consumer s contact information e.g. the consumer s mobile telephone number or e mail address c creating a transaction specific unique reference locator URL linked to a transaction specific web page and d sending the transaction specific URL to the consumer. When the consumer accesses the transaction specific web page from a mobile device e.g. via the transaction specific URL the service provider e displays a token ID on the transaction specific web page. The token ID may be in the form of a barcode a pin number and or a quick response QR code. The token ID which is linked to the staged transaction is then used to initiate data communication between a POS terminal and the service provider s processing unit. The service provider can then f receive confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and a payment to the POS terminal g validate verify the transaction h display a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page and or i notify the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment.

Before describing the invention in more detail it is appropriate to define certain terms and phrases. The terms merchant and merchant partner are used interchangeably herein. It is noted that the term merchant and or merchant partner is not limited to entities that directly sell goods services. For example a merchant may be a loan service collections service money transfer service bill payment service bank deposit service credit union etc. The terms consumer customer and end user are used interchangeably herein and generally refer to a buyer of goods services provided by a merchant. However it is noted that the use of the systems and methods presented is not strictly limited to sale purchase transactions between a seller and a buyer. The systems and methods presented may be used to facilitate transactions between two or more individuals an individual and one or more businesses two or more businesses etc. The systems and methods presented may also be used to facilitate transactions between any two or more parties that have a pre existing relationship or obligation s . The terms point of sale point of sale terminal POS POS terminal and point of payment are used interchangeably herein and generally refer to the location where a payment is received from a consumer. It is also noted that terms such as POS or POS terminal may include the actual terminal where payment is presented and received e.g. the cash register or may include the POS back office or any entity controlling one or more of the actual terminals. The terms service provider and payment processor are used interchangeably herein and generally refer to the functional unit s for implementing the systems and methods presented. As used herein a service provider may be an independent stand alone entity or may be a functional sub system of a merchant partner and or POS.

The following is a description of one or more embodiments of the present invention with reference to . It is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

As will be described further below service provider and POS play a central role in facilitating transactions between merchant partner and end user . In one embodiment each party serves a stand alone function within system . However in an alternative embodiment service provider may be incorporated into or be a functional unit of merchant partner and or POS . Further merchant partner may be any type of merchant seller or retailer such as an online web based merchant or catalog based merchant. POS and or POS terminal may be a local retailer e.g. relative to end user ATM kiosk or other cash exchange terminal intermediary or equivalent thereof. POS and or POS terminal may be disclosed identified to the end user via one or more of the systems described below such as via a computer or smart phone connection to merchant partner or service provider .

In process flow and represents an exchange between merchant partner and end user . In the example shown merchant partner provides end user with a user interface to purchase a goods services. For example the merchant may provide the user with a checkout experience over a web page on a merchant s website an interface on a mobile device an interactive voice system over a telephone network or any interface equivalent thereof. While known customer user interfaces may provide a checkout experience that allows an end user to enter their credit card information the system shown in provides the end user with a checkout experience that allows the end user to pay for the goods services in cash or cash equivalents .

If the end user selects to pay in cash then merchant partner interfaces and exchanges information with service provider as represented by process flow . In practice merchant partner and or service provider stages a transaction by linking a set of one or more transaction instructions to end user . The transaction instructions may vary but generally include instructions on what actions e.g. payments need to be performed by end user in order for merchant partner to provide end user with the agreed upon goods services e.g. item . The transaction instructions may include actions to be performed by the end user merchant partner service provider or any combination thereof.

Service provider then tokenizes the staged transaction by linking the set of one or more transaction instructions to a token ID. The terms token token ID unique payment identifier and PID are used interchangeably herein. In an alternative embodiment a single token ID can be linked to multiple staged transactions and or multiple merchant partners. The token ID is then provided to end user . The token ID can be provided to the end user either directly from service provider POS or merchant partner . illustrate exemplary embodiments of how the token ID is provided to end user via an end user mobile device.

When end user is ready to make a payment end user presents the token ID to POS along with an appropriate payment as represented by process flow . At POS the token ID serves as a means of linking the end user s payment to the one or more transaction instructions. In other words when end user presents the token ID and payment to POS the token ID is used to initiate data communication between POS and service provider and thereby route the presentment information to service provider as represented by process flow . Service provider may then validate that the presentment was in accordance with the transaction instructions linked to the token ID. If the end user s payment is in accordance with the transaction instructions linked to the token ID then service provider notifies merchant partner that a payment has been made. Merchant partner then completes the transaction by for example shipping item or otherwise fulfilling the transaction and or crediting end user s account with merchant partner . Service provider then settles the transaction between merchant partner and POS by receiving the payment funds minus any agreed upon service fees from POS and delivering the payment funds minus any agreed upon service fees to merchant partner .

In an alternative embodiment the systems and methods described herein do not require merchant partner to provide end user with a checkout experience. There is also no requirement that the end user provide an intent or selection of a cash payment option. For example in one embodiment merchant partner provides its customers with one or more tokens as a means for the customers to make payments. The payments can be made at a POS terminal and a series of staged transactions may proceed without any front end involvement by end user .

In step the service provider s processing unit determines whether the consumer clicked on the URL on a mobile device. If not the service provider may continue a non mobile implementation of the process steps of as described in the above referenced applications. However if the consumer has chosen to access receive the URL on a mobile device the service provider s processing unit receives a user agent string identifying the mobile device and assess compatibility of the mobile device based on the user agent string in step . By assessing compatibility the service provider s processing unit can adjust the text type format etc. of the information that is presented to the consumer s mobile device. The service provider can also select modify the token ID based on the compatibility of the consumer s mobile device.

In step the service provider s processing unit can receive a geolocation from the mobile device and identify one or more POS terminals that may be local to the consumer based on geolocation. The one or more local POS terminals can then be provided to the consumer as a list or as pin points on a map via the transaction specific web page in step . Alternatively the consumer can enter their zip code or a preselected POS terminal and steps and can be skipped. In step the service provider s processing unit determines whether the consumer selected a POS terminal for providing the payment and or whether the consumer is at the POS terminal and ready to provide the payment.

In step the token ID is displayed on the transaction specific web page. The token ID serves as a means to initiate data communication between the POS terminal and the service provider s processing unit. The token ID is used by the service provider to identify the staged transaction and allows the service provider to confirm whether or not the payment is consistent with the staged transaction instructions. For example in the embodiment wherein the token ID is a barcode the POS terminal attendant scans the barcode and the POS terminal recognizes that the barcode requires an application programming interface API call to the service provider s processing unit. In step the service provided receives confirmation from the POS terminal that the consumer has presented the token ID and the payment to the POS terminal i.e. the service provider receives presentment data from the POS terminal. With said presentment data the service provider can validate or otherwise verify the transaction and payment as in step . Because the consumer is using their mobile device to display the token ID on the transaction specific web page the service provider can refresh the transaction specific web page upon verification of the payment. The service provider can then display a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page in step .

Once the consumer has selected a local POS terminal the transaction specific web page is refreshed by the service provider to show additional transaction instructions. When the consumer is at the POS terminal they can click on the icon At Cashier to proceed to POS instructions as shown in . In other words shows transaction instructions for the POS terminal. In the token ID is displayed in the form of a barcode. The POS terminal can then scan the barcode to initiate communication with the service provider. In other words the barcode is used as a means for initiating the transfer of presentment data to the service provider.

If however the POS terminal attendant is unsure of how to process the transaction a Need Help Tap Here icon is provided on the transaction specific web page. If the consumer or POS terminal attendant clicks on the Need Help Tap Here icon a transaction specific instruction set is provided by the service provider on the transaction specific web page. The service provider can select the transaction specific instruction set based on the POS terminal selected by the consumer. illustrate screen shots of a transaction specific instruction set. Each screenshot shown in is customized to the consumer s transaction. For example illustrates a terminal that matches the POS terminal. also illustrates the transaction amount. then show ensuing steps to be performed by the POS terminal attendant.

After the consumer has made a payment in accordance with the transaction instructions and the service provider has validated the payment the service provider can refresh or otherwise update the transaction specific web page to show a receipt for the transaction. The receipt text can provide additional instructions and or promotions for the consumer. The receipt text can also mimic the receipt text that would be or is otherwise provided by the POS terminal.

In one embodiment there is provided a computer implemented method for facilitating a payment for goods or services between an online merchant and a consumer. The method calls for the consumer to provide a purchase request on a web based interface and the payment for the purchase request at a consumer selected point of sale POS terminal that is local to the consumer and remote to the merchant. The purchase request may be received at a service provider processing unit from the merchant s web based interface based on directives from a merchant server. The purchase request may be received at a service provider processing unit from the merchant s web based interface via an application programming interface API call from the merchant server. As would be appreciated by one of skill in the art alternatives to web based interfaces are within the scope of the present invention. In other words any means for communicating and or transmitting information from the consumer and or merchant may be employed for example an application i.e. app on a mobile device an interactive voice response IVR system a third party database an operator assisted phone call or any other equivalent means.

The method comprises a service provider processing unit performing the steps of a receiving the purchase request from the web based interface b staging a transaction in a database by creating a database entry linking one or more transaction instructions to the consumer c creating a transaction specific unique reference locator URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions d providing the consumer with a web based prompt to enter their contact information e receiving the consumer s contact information and linking the contact information to the database entry and f using the provided contact information to send the transaction specific URL to the consumer. The consumer may provide their contact information in the form of an e mail address or a telephone number. The transaction specific URL may be sent to the consumer in an e mail or a short message service SMS text message. Whereupon the consumer clicking the transaction specific URL on a mobile device the service provider processing unit further performs the steps of g receiving a user agent string identifying the mobile device h assessing compatibility of the mobile device based on the user agent string i receiving a geolocation from the mobile device j identifying one or more POS terminals local to the consumer based on geolocation and k providing the consumer via the transaction specific web page a list of the one or more POS terminals. Whereupon the consumer s selection of a POS terminal for providing the payment the service provider processing unit further performing the step of l displaying a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is linked to the database entry and is used to initiate data communication between the consumer selected POS terminal and the service provider processing unit. The token ID may be in a form selected from the group consisting of a barcode a pin number and a QR code.

In alternative embodiments the consumer s contact information may be obtained via an interface such as an application i.e. app on a mobile device an IVR system a third party database an operator assisted phone call or any other equivalent means for sharing and or obtaining information from the consumer.

The method may further comprise m providing the consumer selected POS terminal with a communication interface such that the consumer selected POS terminal can confirm that the consumer has presented the token ID and provided the payment to the POS terminal and the service provider processing unit then performing the steps of n receiving confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and the payment to the POS terminal o verifying that the payment is in accordance with the one or more transaction instructions and or p displaying a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page. The method may further include the step of q notifying the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment and or r the service provider processing unit performing the step of selecting the form of the token ID based on the POS terminal selected by the consumer.

In another embodiment there is provided a method for facilitating a transaction between a merchant and a consumer wherein the consumer provides a payment for the transaction at a consumer selected POS terminal. The method includes a service provider processing unit performing the steps of a receiving a service request b staging a transaction in a database by creating a database entry linking one or more transaction instructions to the consumer c creating a transaction specific URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions and d using consumer contact information to send the transaction specific URL to the consumer. Whereupon the consumer accesses the transaction specific web page from a mobile device via the transaction specific URL the service provider processing unit further performs the steps of e identifying one or more available POS terminals and f displaying the one or more available POS terminals on the transaction specific web page. Whereupon the consumer selects a POS terminal for providing the payment the service provider processing unit performs the step of g displaying a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is linked to the database entry and is used to initiate data communication between the consumer selected POS terminal and the service provider processing unit. The token ID may be in a form selected from the group consisting of a barcode a pin number and a QR code. The service provider processing unit may further perform the steps of h receiving confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and the payment to the POS terminal i displaying a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page and or j notifying the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment.

In yet another embodiment there is provided a method for facilitating a payment between a merchant and a consumer wherein the consumer provides the payment at a consumer selected POS terminal. The method comprises a service provider processing unit performing the steps of a staging a transaction in a database by creating a database entry linking one or more transaction instructions to the consumer b creating a transaction specific URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions and c sending the transaction specific URL to the consumer via a SMS text message. Whereupon the consumer clicks the transaction specific URL on a mobile device the service provider processing unit performs the steps of d displaying the one or more transaction instructions on the transaction specific web page and e displaying a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is linked to the database entry and is used to initiate data communication between the consumer selected POS terminal and the service provider processing unit. The token ID may be in a form selected from the group consisting of a barcode a pin number and a QR code. The method may further comprise the service provider processing unit then performing the steps of f receiving confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and the payment to the POS terminal g displaying a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page h notifying the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment and or i selecting the form of the token ID based on the POS terminal selected by the consumer.

In still another embodiment there is provided a method for facilitating a cash payment for goods services wherein the consumer provides the payment at a POS terminal. The method comprises a service provider processing unit performing the steps of a obtaining a consumer s contact information b creating a transaction specific URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions and c sending the transaction specific URL to the consumer. Whereupon the consumer clicks the transaction specific URL on a mobile device the service provider processing unit performs the step of d displaying the one or more transaction instructions on the transaction specific web page. Whereupon the consumer indicates they are present at the POS terminal the service provider processing unit performs the step of e displaying a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is used to initiate data communication between the POS terminal and the service provider processing unit. The token ID may be in a form selected from the group consisting of a barcode a pin number and a QR code. The method may further comprise the service provider processing unit then performing the steps of f receiving an amount of payment received at the POS terminal g displaying a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page and or h crediting a consumer account debit card pre paid card loan or equivalent account based on the amount of payment received at the POS terminal.

In yet another embodiment there is provide a system and method for facilitating a cash payment for goods or services wherein a consumer provides the payment at a POS terminal. The system and method include a service provider processing unit performing the steps of a creating a transaction specific display prompt for displaying the one or more transaction instructions b sending the consumer a transaction specific link to the transaction specific display prompt c displaying the one or more transaction instructions on the transaction specific display prompt and d displaying a token ID on the transaction specific display prompt wherein the token ID is used to initiate data communication between the POS terminal and the service provider processing unit. The system and method may further include the service provider processing unit performing the steps of e receiving an amount of payment received at the POS terminal f displaying a transaction receipt on the transaction specific display prompt g crediting a consumer account debit card pre paid card or loan based on the amount of payment received at the POS terminal. The system and method presented can be implemented on a browser based mobile prompt or an application specific display interface.

In one embodiment communication between the various parties and components of the present invention is accomplished over a network consisting of electronic devices connected either physically or wirelessly wherein digital information is transmitted from one device to another. Such devices e.g. end user devices and or servers may include but are not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld device or PDA a cellular telephone a set top box an Internet appliance an Internet TV system a mobile device or tablet or systems equivalent thereto. Exemplary networks include a Local Area Network a Wide Area Network an organizational intranet the Internet or networks equivalent thereto. The functionality and system components of an exemplary computer and network are further explained in conjunction with below.

In one embodiment the invention is directed toward one or more computer systems capable of carrying out the functionality described herein. For example is a schematic drawing of a computer system used to implement the methods presented above. Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . The processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a communications bus cross over bar or network . Computer system can include a display interface that forwards graphics text and other data from the communication infrastructure or from a frame buffer not shown for display on a local or remote display unit .

Computer system also includes a main memory such as random access memory RAM solid state device and or hard drive. Computer system may also include a secondary memory . The secondary memory may include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive flash memory device universal serial bus USB device etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk flash memory device universal serial bus USB device etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated the removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein computer software instructions and or data.

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices may include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as that found in video game devices a removable memory chip such as an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or programmable read only memory PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow computer software instructions and or data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system may also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows computer software instructions and or data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Examples of communications interface may include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA slot and card etc. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path e.g. channel . This channel carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a telephone line a cellular link a radio frequency RF link a wireless communication link and other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer readable storage medium computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to all non transitory computer readable media such as removable storage drive removable storage units a hard disk installed in hard disk drive or equivalent computer readable media with the exclusion of propagating signals. These computer program products provide computer software instructions and or data to computer system . These computer program products also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from the computer program products software. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to such computer program products.

Computer programs also referred to as computer control logic are stored in main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor to perform the features of the presented methods. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where appropriate the processor associated components and equivalent systems and sub systems thus serve as means for performing selected operations and functions. Such means for performing selected operations and functions also serve to transform a general purpose computer into a special purpose computer programmed to perform said selected operations and functions.

In an embodiment where the invention is implemented using software the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface hard drive communications interface or equivalents thereof. The control logic software when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform the functions and methods described herein.

In another embodiment the methods are implemented primarily in hardware using for example hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Implementation of the hardware state machine so as to perform the functions and methods described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s . In yet another embodiment the methods are implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Embodiments of the invention including any systems and methods described herein may also be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may include any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and others. Further firmware software routines instructions may be described herein as performing certain actions. However it should be appreciated that such descriptions are merely for convenience and that such actions in fact result from computing devices processors controllers or other devices executing firmware software routines instructions etc.

For example in one embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium for facilitating a payment for goods or services between an online merchant and a consumer. The computer readable storage medium includes instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a receive a purchase request from the online merchant s web based interface b stage a transaction in a database by creating a database entry linking one or more transaction instructions to the consumer c create a transaction specific URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions d provide the consumer with a web based prompt to enter their contact information e receive the consumer s contact information and linking the contact information to the database entry and f use the provided contact information to send the transaction specific URL to the consumer. Whereupon the consumer clicks the transaction specific URL on a mobile device the computer readable storage medium includes instructions that cause the processing device to g receive a user agent string identifying the mobile device h assess the compatibility of the mobile device based on the user agent string i receive a geolocation from the mobile device j identify one or more POS terminals local to the consumer based on geolocation and k provide the consumer via the transaction specific web page a list of the one or more POS terminals. Whereupon the consumer selects of a POS terminal for providing the payment the computer readable storage medium includes instructions that cause the processing device to 1 display a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is linked to the database entry and is used to initiate data communication between the consumer selected POS terminal and the service provider processing unit m provide the consumer selected POS terminal with a communication interface such that the consumer selected POS terminal can confirm that the consumer has presented the token ID and provided the payment to the POS terminal n receive confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and the payment to the POS terminal o verify that the payment is in accordance with the one or more transaction instructions p display a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page q notifying the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment and or r select the form of the token ID based on the POS terminal selected by the consumer. The token ID may be a form selected from the group consisting of a barcode a pin number and a QR code. The purchase request may be received from the web based interface based on directives from a merchant server. The purchase request may be received via an application programming interface API call from a merchant server. The consumer may provide their contact information in the form of an e mail address or a telephone number. The transaction specific URL may be sent to the consumer in an e mail or a SMS text message.

In another embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium for facilitating a transaction between a merchant and a consumer wherein the consumer provides a payment for the transaction at a consumer selected point of sale POS terminal. The computer readable storage medium includes instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a receive a service request b stage a transaction in a database by creating a database entry linking one or more transaction instructions to the consumer c create a transaction specific URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions and d use consumer contact information to send the transaction specific URL to the consumer. Whereupon the consumer accesses the transaction specific web page from a mobile device via the transaction specific URL the computer readable storage medium includes instructions that cause the processing device to e identify one or more available POS terminals and f display the one or more available POS terminals on the transaction specific web page. Whereupon the consumer selects a POS terminal for providing the payment the computer readable storage medium includes instructions that cause the processing device to g display a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is linked to the database entry and is used to initiate data communication between the consumer selected POS terminal and the service provider processing unit h receive confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and the payment to the POS terminal i display a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page and or j notifying the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment. The token ID may be in a form selected from the group consisting of a barcode a pin number and a QR code.

In another embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium for facilitating a payment between a merchant and a consumer wherein the consumer provides the payment at a consumer selected point of sale POS terminal. The computer readable storage medium includes instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a stage a transaction in a database by creating a database entry linking one or more transaction instructions to the consumer b create a transaction specific unique reference locator URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions and c send the transaction specific URL to the consumer via a short message service SMS text message. Whereupon the consumer clicking the transaction specific URL on a mobile device the computer readable storage medium includes instructions that cause the processing device to d display the one or more transaction instructions on the transaction specific web page and e display a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is linked to the database entry and is used to initiate data communication between the consumer selected POS terminal and the service provider processing unit. The computer readable storage medium may further include instructions that cause the processing device to f receive confirmation that the consumer has presented the token ID and the payment to the POS terminal g display a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page h notify the merchant that the consumer has provided the payment and or i select the form of the token ID based on the POS terminal selected by the consumer. The token ID may be in a form selected from the group consisting of a barcode a pin number and a quick response QR code.

In still another embodiment there is provided a computer readable storage medium for facilitating a cash payment by a consumer wherein the consumer provides the payment at a consumer selected point of sale POS terminal. The computer readable storage medium includes instructions executable by at least one processing device that when executed cause the processing device to a obtain a consumer s contact information b create a transaction specific URL linked to a transaction specific web page for displaying the one or more transaction instructions c send the transaction specific URL to the consumer d display the one or more transaction instructions on the transaction specific web page e display a token ID on the transaction specific web page wherein the token ID is used to initiate data communication between the POS terminal and the service provider processing unit f receive an amount of payment received at the POS terminal g display a transaction receipt on the transaction specific web page and or h credit a consumer account debit card pre paid card loan or equivalent account based on the amount of payment received at the POS terminal.

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application and to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments of the invention including equivalent structures components methods and means.

As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible. Further each system component and or method step presented should be considered a means for or step for performing the function described for said system component and or method step. As such any claim language directed to a means for or step for performing a recited function refers to the system component and or method step in the specification that performs the recited function as well as equivalents thereof.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventor s and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

