---

title: Touch quality test robot
abstract: Described herein is a robot for testing touch-sensitive displays. The test robot may have a test surface holding a touch-sensitive display. The test robot may also have a first robotic unit that can translate in only two dimensions relative to the touch-sensitive display, where the first robotic unit secures a first plurality of finger units. The test robot may also have a second robotic unit that can translate in only the two dimensions relative to the touch-sensitive display, where the second robotic unit secures a second plurality of finger units. The test robot may also have a control unit controlling the first robotic unit, the second robotic unit, the first plurality of finger units, and the second plurality of finger units.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09481084&OS=09481084&RS=09481084
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09481084
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120622
---
With increasing use of touch sensitive devices such as smart phones tablets laptops and others there has been increasing need to test such touch sensitive devices. For example it may be desirable to verify physical attributes of a touch sensitive device such as sensitivity and accuracy. In addition it may be desirable to test the correctness of software running on a touch sensitive device using physical test inputs to interact with software being tested. With regard to testing physical traits of a touch sensitive device to test for compliance with a certification standard for example human testers generally cannot duplicate their test behaviors on diverse target devices to equally measure the same physical qualities of different devices. The test results of touch devices have been judged with an individual s subjectivities and without specific criteria. Furthermore human finger methodology is prone to inconsistency due to variables in finger pressure line straightness tracing speed etc.

The following summary is included only to introduce some concepts discussed in the Detailed Description below. This summary is not comprehensive and is not intended to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter which is set forth by the claims presented at the end.

Described herein is a robot for testing touch sensitive displays. The test robot may have a test surface holding a touch sensitive display. The test robot may also have a first robotic unit that can translate in only two dimensions relative to the touch sensitive display where the first robotic unit secures a first plurality of finger units. The test robot may also have a second robotic unit that can translate in only the two dimensions relative to the touch sensitive display where the second robotic unit secures a second plurality of finger units. The test robot may also have a control unit controlling the first robotic unit the second robotic unit the first plurality of finger units and the second plurality of finger units.

Many of the attendant features will be explained below with reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments discussed below relate to techniques and devices for robotic testing of touch sensitive devices. Various mechanical details of a test robot will be discussed followed by discussion of a software framework for using test robots to test touch sensitive devices.

The robotic hand A has two or more finger units A B. The finger units A B naturally move as the robotic hand A to which they are attached moves. If a finger unit A B is contacting the touch device the finger unit A B will trace a path on the surface of the touch device that corresponds to a translation path of the robotic hand A in a plane parallel to the reference plane. The finger units A B are designed to move in a direction substantially perpendicular to the reference plane e.g. up and down if the touch device is lying flat thus allowing them to be individually arranged such that one finger unit A may be contacting the touch device e.g. down while the other finger unit B is not contacting the touch device e.g. up .

One or more of the finger units for example finger unit B may translate relative to the robotic hand A in a direction parallel to the reference plane. For example the robotic hand A may have a rail that is parallel to the reference plane and the finger unit B may be movably mounted on the rail thus allowing the finger unit B to be translated by a dedicated servo along the rail in a direction parallel to the reference plane as indicated by the dashed arrow on the finger unit B . If the finger unit B is contacting the touch device the finger unit B s translation relative to the robotic hand A causes the finger unit to trace a corresponding contact path on the surface of the touch device .

As indicated by the dashed arcs in the robotic hand A may also be configured to rotate in a plane parallel to the reference plane parallel to the surface of the touch device thereby causing any finger units that are contacting the surface of the touch device to trace a circular or arced path according to possible additional translation of the robotic hand A and or translation of a finger unit A B relative to the robotic hand A. In sum it is possible that a finger unit A B at any given time may be i translating perpendicular to the reference plane e.g. the touch device or a surface holding same thus allowing the finger unit A B to move into or out of contact with the touch device ii translating parallel to the reference plane according to translation of the robotic hand A and iii translating parallel to the reference plane according to rotation of the robotic hand A.

The rotational and translational movement of the robotic hands A B may be implemented by a variety of known mechanical techniques including for example servos moving gears engaging toothed rails servos driving belts rotating threaded rods i.e. ball screws chains etc. Moreover other arrangements may be used. For example rather than the movement unit A B actually moving the movement unit A B may have a servo that rotates to move the arm A B in sweeping motions in which case the movement unit A B may also have another servo that moves the arm A B toward and away from the movement unit A B i.e. along the length of the arm A B . Other designs may be used including reticulated arms a single movement unit moving two attached arms etc.

In the embodiment shown in it may be convenient for some of the rotating units to be attached to the non moving finger unit . Each paired belt and finger unit are attached by coupled by an attachment for example a clamp a piece of metal affixed to both the belt and the finger unit a nut and bolt through the belt and finger unit etc. It can be seen from the design of that finger units and consequently fingers can be individually moved in a direction relative to the robotic hand A B.

As will be described later each finger unit may have a pressure sensor to measure pressure of the corresponding finger on the touch device . Moreover as describe next each finger unit may have a mechanism to move its corresponding finger along the length of the finger unit i.e. perpendicular to the test surface . That is if the test surface is horizontally level the fingers may be individually moved up and down.

Each finger may have a detachable tip to allow use of different materials and shapes to contact the touch device . For example a brass detachable tip may be suitable for a capacitive type touch device . A silicon cover or detachable tip may be called for when other types of touch devices are to be tested.

In addition each finger unit may have a pressure sensor . It is assumed that the construction of the finger unit allows the finger to move with some degree of freedom and the pressure sensor is interposed between finger and the carriage thereby allowing the pressure sensor to measure the pressure of the finger contacting the touch device due to force from the servo and belt . In other words the pressure sensor may measure pressure between the finger and the carriage .

The camera can be helpful in performing an initial orientation process when the touch device is to be tested. When the touch device is in place for testing a signal from the camera which can be located based on the location of the corresponding robot hand allows the robot to locate a test area boundary such as the edges of a touch surface. For example the camera signal allows the robot to place the hand at a corner of a test area boundary. The hand is then traced guided by the camera signal along the test area boundary to allow the location coordinates of the boundary sides to be ascertained. In one embodiment one hand starts at one corner another hand starts the opposite corner and the hands trace out respective halves of the test area or test surface boundary and the trace path boundary is recorded. It may be sufficient to locate only corners and calculate the connecting boundary lines. In sum a program such as MFStudio.exe discussed below can implement a calibration process that finds the initial corner positions of a target touch screen for two XY Cartesian Robots and measures screen size and how well the target touch screen is aligned. This information can allow an operator to adjust the target touch screen calibration to the robot .

Regarding the motion controller the motion controller preferably uses PCI motion controllers to control six AC servo motor AMPs thereby providing Application Programming Interfaces APIs to drive six AC servo motors by programming languages such as C Visual Basic etc. The motion controller may support up to six AC servo motor AMPs but uses six channels to drive the X Y Cartesian robot and the two robotic hands A B.

A management tool MFStudio.exe can provide test case execution reviewer UI user interface dash board for the status of the robot and target touch device calibration process. The management tool can create run verify the test case jobs and generate the reports of each test case. The management tool is also responsible for providing configuration data status information and manual control of the test robot the X Y Cartesian robot the robotic hands A B and the finger units .

The client application MFClient.exe manages each test case to be invoked by MFStudio.exe when the connection is available. The client application MFClient.exe is also responsible for capturing Raw touch HID Human Interface Device information which can be facilitated with HID class drivers which provide an interface for extracting data from raw HID reports. The class drivers supply a report descriptor that details the format of the different reports that it creates. Therefore the client application MFClient.exe captures these raw reports and then copies them into the robot controller server .

