---

title: System and method for remotely initiating lost mode on a computing device
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media for remotely initiating lost mode on a computing device. A request that lost mode be initiated can include a message and contact information provided by the requesting user. Once authenticated, a command to initiate lost mode is sent to the lost device. Initiating lost mode includes locking the lost device and suppressing select functionality. The message and contact information are displayed and the lost device is enabled to contact the requesting user using the contact information. The lost device can also collect and transmit location data to the requesting user. The location data can be presented on a map indicating the lost devices location and the time the lost device was at the location. The location data can be scheduled to be resent to the user based on numerous factors such as a set schedule, rules or heuristic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104896&OS=09104896&RS=09104896
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 09104896
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120604
---
The present disclosure relates to computing devices and more specifically to remotely initiating a lost mode on a computing device.

Modern advances in computing devices has resulted in smaller more powerful and wirelessly networked computing devices that can be easily carried by users at all times. As a result these devices are relied on greatly by their owners and often are trusted to carry their owner s personal and sensitive information. Along with the great power and convenience of these devices also comes a high price tag.

Naturally theft of such devices has increased as thieves are attracted to the high price and high demand for such computing devices as well as the possibility to steal personal information of the owner of the computing device. The high price and demand of a computing device can also tempt a non thief that finds a lost computing device to keep the device rather than search for its rightful owner. Alternatively a person that finds a lost device and intends to return in may find it difficult to locate the owner.

Current systems attempt to address these problems by providing the location of the device to an owner of a lost device however these types of systems do not help a person that finds the lost device return it to its owner. Other systems allow the lost device to be locked to deter theft. Although effective the lock also makes it even more difficult for a person that finds the device to determine who is the owner of the device because the information on the device cannot be accessed. Leaving the device unlocked increases the likelihood that the identity of the owner can be ascertained however it also increases the likelihood that the device will not be returned and leaves and personal or sensitive data stored on the lost device unprotected. Accordingly there is a need for an improved system for locating a lost computing device that allows the owner of the computing device to protect the personal or sensitive data on the computing device while also making it easy for a person that finds the computing device to return the computing device to its owner.

Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or can be learned by practice of the herein disclosed principles. The features and advantages of the disclosure can be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the disclosure will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or can be learned by the practice of the principles set forth herein.

Disclosed are systems methods and non transitory computer readable storage media for remotely initiating lost mode on a computing device. A requesting user can request that lost mode be initiated on a lost computing device. The request can be made on a requesting device in network communication with a server configured to communicate with the lost device. The request can include request data such as a message contact information and password. The request data can be provided by the requesting user when requesting that lost mode be initiated on the lost device. A requesting user can be required to enter authenticating information to ensure that the requesting user is authorized to request that lost mode be initiated on the lost device.

Upon a request being made by a requesting user and the requesting user being authenticated the server can be configured to send a command including the request data to the lost device to initiate lost mode on the lost device. Initiating lost mode can include locking the lost device and suppressing select functionality of the lost device so that the functionality of the lost device as well as data and applications stored on the lost device cannot be accessed by an unauthorized user.

Additionally the message and contact information provided by the requesting user can be displayed on the user device to alert a person who finds the lost device on how to contact the requesting user. A user interface element such as a button can also be presented and configured to enable the lost device to contact the requesting user by using the provided contact information. For example a lost device such as a smart phone can be enabled to make an outbound call to a phone number provided by a requesting user as their contact information while outbound calls to all other numbers is restricted. A person who finds the phone can thus easily contact the requesting user while all other functionality of the lost device and data stored thereon are protected.

When lost mode is initiated the lost device can also be configured to collect and transmit location data identifying the location of the lost device to the requesting user. The location data can be presented on a map indicating the lost devices location as well as the time when the lost device was at the location. The location data can be scheduled to be resent to the user based on numerous factors such as a set schedule rules or heuristics.

Various embodiments of the disclosure are discussed in detail below. While specific implementations are discussed it should be understood that this is done for illustration purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without parting from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

With reference to an exemplary system includes a general purpose computing device including a processing unit CPU or processor and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM to the processor . The system can include a cache of high speed memory connected directly with in close proximity to or integrated as part of the processor . The system copies data from the memory and or the storage device to the cache for quick access by the processor . In this way the cache provides a performance boost that avoids processor delays while waiting for data. These and other modules can control or be configured to control the processor to perform various actions. Other system memory may be available for use as well. The memory can include multiple different types of memory with different performance characteristics. It can be appreciated that the disclosure may operate on a computing device with more than one processor or on a group or cluster of computing devices networked together to provide greater processing capability. The processor can include any general purpose processor and a hardware module or software module such as module 1 module 2 and module 3 stored in storage device configured to control the processor as well as a special purpose processor where software instructions are incorporated into the actual processor design. The processor may essentially be a completely self contained computing system containing multiple cores or processors a bus memory controller cache etc. A multi core processor may be symmetric or asymmetric.

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. A basic input output BIOS stored in ROM or the like may provide the basic routine that helps to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up. The computing device further includes storage devices such as a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive tape drive or the like. The storage device can include software modules for controlling the processor . Other hardware or software modules are contemplated. The storage device is connected to the system bus by a drive interface. The drives and the associated computer readable storage media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In one aspect a hardware module that performs a particular function includes the software component stored in a non transitory computer readable medium in connection with the necessary hardware components such as the processor bus output device and so forth to carry out the function. The basic components are known to those of skill in the art and appropriate variations are contemplated depending on the type of device such as whether the device is a small handheld computing device a desktop computer or a computer server.

Although the exemplary embodiment described herein employs a storage device it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that are accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memory ROM a cable or wireless signal containing a bit stream and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. Non transitory computer readable storage media expressly exclude media such as energy carrier signals electromagnetic waves and signals per se.

To enable user interaction with the computing device an input device represents any number of input mechanisms such as a microphone for speech a touch sensitive screen for gesture or graphical input keyboard mouse motion input speech and so forth. An output device can also be one or more of a number of output mechanisms known to those of skill in the art. In some instances multimodal systems enable a user to provide multiple types of input to communicate with the computing device . The communications interface generally governs and manages the user input and system output. There is no restriction on operating on any particular hardware arrangement and therefore the basic features here may easily be substituted for improved hardware or firmware arrangements as they are developed.

For clarity of explanation the illustrative system embodiment is presented as including individual functional blocks including functional blocks labeled as a processor or processor . The functions these blocks represent may be provided through the use of either shared or dedicated hardware including but not limited to hardware capable of executing software and hardware such as a processor that is purpose built to operate as an equivalent to software executing on a general purpose processor. For example the functions of one or more processors presented in may be provided by a single shared processor or multiple processors. Use of the term processor should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software. Illustrative embodiments may include microprocessor and or digital signal processor DSP hardware read only memory ROM for storing software performing the operations discussed below and random access memory RAM for storing results. Very large scale integration VLSI hardware embodiments as well as custom VLSI circuitry in combination with a general purpose DSP circuit may also be provided.

The logical operations of the various embodiments are implemented as 1 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a general use computer 2 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a specific use programmable circuit and or 3 interconnected machine modules or program engines within the programmable circuits. The system shown in can practice all or part of the recited methods can be a part of the recited systems and or can operate according to instructions in the recited non transitory computer readable storage media. Such logical operations can be implemented as modules configured to control the processor to perform particular functions according to the programming of the module. For example illustrates three modules Mod1 Mod2 and Mod3 which are modules configured to control the processor . These modules may be stored on the storage device and loaded into RAM or memory at runtime or may be stored as would be known in the art in other computer readable memory locations.

Having disclosed some components of a computing system the disclosure now turns to which illustrates a general purpose computing environment wherein a user can remotely initiate lost mode on a user device. As illustrated multiple computing devices can be connected to a communication network and be configured to communicate with each other through use of the communication network. The communication network can be any type of network including a local area network LAN such as an intranet a wide area network WAN such as the internet or any combination thereof. Further the communication network can be a public network a private network or a combination thereof. The communication network can also be implemented using any type or types of physical media including wired communication paths and wireless communication paths associated with one or more service providers. Additionally the communication network can be configured to support the transmission of messages formatted using a variety of protocols.

Multiple computing devices can be connected to the communication network. A computing device can be any type of general computing device capable of network communication with other computing devices. For example the computing device can be a personal computing device such as a desktop or workstation a business server or a portable computing device such as a laptop smart phone or a post pc device. The computing device can include some or all of the features components and peripherals of computing device of . To facilitate communication with other computing devices the computing device can also include a communication interface configured to receive a communication such as a request data etc. from another computing device in network communication with the computing device and pass the communication along to an appropriate module running on the computing device. The communication interface can also be configured to send a communication to another computing device in network communication with the computing device.

As illustrated in the exemplary system includes three computing devices in network communication with each other a lost user device a Find My Device FMD server and a requesting user device . The system illustrated in can be configured to remotely initiate lost mode on the lost user device . The requesting user device can be configured to communicate with the FMD server to create a request to initiate lost mode on the lost device .

The FMD server can be configured to receive a request to initiate lost mode on the lost user device and send a command to the lost user device to initiate lost mode. As illustrated the FMD server can contain a number of components. The components can include one or more databases for storing data relevant to the operation of the FMD server e.g. an account database and a location database and one or more modules or interfaces for interacting with the databases and or controlling the features provided by the FMD server e.g. an authentication module a request module and a location module . Each of these components is discussed in more detail below however it should be understood to one skilled in the art that the configuration illustrated is simply one possible configuration and that other configurations with more or less components are possible.

The FMD server can include an account database configured to store a user profile for each of a plurality of users. A user s profile can include a variety of information about the user for example the information can include a user name password a list of all computing devices owned by the user an identifier for each computing device owned by the user user specified preferences contact information demographic information etc.

The FMD server can also include an authentication module configured to communicate with the account database and authenticate that the user requesting to initiate lost mode on the lost user device has permission to make the request. To properly authenticate a requesting user the authentication module can be configured to prompt the requesting user to enter authenticating information such as a user name and password. To confirm that the authenticating information received from the requesting user is correct the authentication module can be configured to communicate with the account database to confirm that the given user name and password match a user profile in the account database . If the given user name and password matches a user profile stored in the account database the requesting user can be authenticated as having permission to request that lost mode be initiated on any of the computing device associated with the user s profile. Although user name and password are used as an example one skilled in the art would recognize that any variety of authenticating information can be requested from the user including personal information or answers to predetermined security questions.

The FMD server can also include a request module configured to allow a user to request that lost mode be initiated on the lost user device . The request module can be configured to provide the requesting user with an interface to create the request that lost mode be initiated on the lost user device . The interface can also be configured to receive request data from the requesting user. For example request data can include an identifier identifying the lost user device. The identifier can be any type of identifier which can identify the lost user device. For example if the lost user device is a smart phone the identifier can include a phone number associate with the device. Alternatively the identifier can include a unique name or ID associated with the device. In some embodiments an authenticated requesting user can be presented with a list of all user devices listed in the user s profile and the requesting user can select which user device is lost.

In addition to the identifier the request data can also include contact information. Contact information can include any type of information used to contact the requesting user. For example contact information can include a phone number e mail address physical address instant messenger handle website etc. The request module can be configured to prompt the requesting user for the contact information. In some embodiments the request module can be configured to use information specified in a user s profile data as the contact information. In some embodiments the request module can be configured to ask a requesting user whether the requesting user would like to use the contact information stored in the user s profile or enter new contact information.

The request data can also include a message specified by the requesting user. The message can be any message specified by the requesting user which the requesting user would like to have displayed on the lost device . In some embodiments the message can be predetermined and stored in the user s profile and the request module can be configured to allow the requesting user to either use the stored message or create a new one.

The request data can also include a password. The password can be any type of password known to those skilled in the art such as a numeric pin character password gesture etc. In some embodiments the password can be preset by the requesting user and the request module can be configured to allow the requesting user to either use the preset password or enter a new one.

The requesting user can access the FMD server to request that lost mode be initiated on the lost device by using the requesting device to communicate with the FMD server . For example in some embodiments the requesting device can include a web browser application configured to request access to the FMD server via the communication network . In some embodiments the authentication module and request module either entirely or partially can be running on the requesting device and the requesting user can access the modules from the requesting device to create the request.

Upon receiving the request including request data from the requesting user and authenticating that the requesting user is authorized to initiate lost mode on the lost device the request module can be configured to send a command including the received request data to the lost device to initiate lost mode. The lost device can be configured to initiate lock mode on the lost device upon receiving the command.

The FMD server can also include a location module configured to receive location data from the lost device and transmit the location to the requesting user. The location data can include data indicating the location of the lost device as well as the time the lost device was at the location. Once received the location module can be configured to transmit the location data to the requesting user in numerous ways. For example in some embodiments the location data can be sent to the requesting device . The location module can determine whether the requesting device is available and if available send the location date. If the requesting device is not available the location module can be configured to store the location data in a location database on the FMD server until the requesting device is available.

The location data can be presented to the requesting user in numerous ways. In some embodiments the location data can be presented to the requesting user on a map that tracks the movement of the lost device . In some embodiments the location data can be presented to the requesting user by giving the street address or GPS coordinate of the lost device .

The location data can also be sent to the requesting user in numerous ways. For example in some embodiments the requesting user can log into web interface or application configured to communicate with the location module to view the location of the lost device. In some embodiments the location data can be e mailed to the owner of the user device. In some embodiments the location data can be sent to the requesting device via a push notification to immediately update the requesting user of the location of the lost device .

Although the above examples of sending location data are described these examples are not meant to be limiting and are just a few possible embodiments. One skilled in the art would recognize that there are numerous ways to send and present data.

The lost device can contain a number of components. The components can include one or more databases for storing data relevant to the operation of the device and one or more modules or interfaces for interacting with the databases and or controlling the features provided by the lost user device e.g. a user interface module lost mode module and Find My Device FMD module . Each of these components is discussed in more detail below however it should be understood to one skilled in the art that the configuration illustrated is simply one possible configuration and that other configurations with more or less components are possible.

The lost device can include a user interface module configured to manage the user interface on the lost device . This can include displaying all user interface elements on the device such as icons buttons controls date time notifications alerts etc.

The lost device can also include a FMD module configured to initiate lost mode on the lost device upon receiving the command to initiate lost mode from the FMD server . For example in some embodiments the FMD module can be a daemon running in the background on the lost device and configured to communicate with the operating system to initiate applications and modules running on the lost device as well control hardware components of the lost device .

The FMD module can be configured to receive the command from the FMD server to initiate lost mode on the lost device . Upon receiving the command the FMD module can be configured to execute the lost mode module . Further the FMD module can be configured to communicate the request data received from the FMD server to the lost mode module .

The lost mode module can be configured to run with or as part of the user interface module to graphically lock the lost device. For example the lost mode module can be a plug in application configured to communicate with the user interface module through use of an Application Programming Interface API provided by the user interface module . The lost mode module can be configured to instruct the user interface module to lock the lost device and to suppress functionality of the lost device . For example the lost mode module can instruct the user interface module that certain user interface elements are not to be displayed on the lost device . For example the lost mode module can instruct the user interface module to suppress all user interface elements that would allow access to data and or applications on the lost device and thus render the device in a useless locked state. Further the lost mode module can instruct the user interface module to suppress other features such as presenting notifications on the lost device . Although presenting the notification is suppressed the lost device can still be enabled to receive data which would normally trigger the notification being presented.

The lost mode module can also instruct the user interface module to present the contact information and message received from the FMD server .

In addition to presenting the contact information the lost mode module can also be configured to instruct the user interface module to present a user interface element on the lost device that is enabled with the limited functionality to allow the lost device to contact the requesting user using the contact information. For example if the lost device is a smart phone and the provided contact information is a phone number the lost mode module can be configured to instruct the user interface module to present the contact number and provide a user interface element which enables the smart phone the limited functionality of making outbound phone calls to the provided contact number while outbound calls to all other numbers are prohibited. Thus if the smart phone is found a Good Samaritan can easily contact the owner of the device by simply selecting the user interface element to be connected to the provided contact number. Alternatively the contact information can be an e mail address and the user interface element can allow the user to compose and send an e mail to the owner of the device at the e mail address provided.

In addition to executing the lost mode module in some embodiments the FMD module can also be configured to transmit location data to the requesting user. For example the FMD module can be configured to collect location data from a GPS component of the lost device and periodically send the location data to the requesting user. The location data can be any type of data that can identify the location of the lost device. For example the location data can be GPS coordinates a street address etc. In addition the location data can include the time that the lost device was at the specified location. For example the FMD module can be configured to receive the time from an internal clock running on the lost device .

In some embodiments the FMD module can be configured to send the location data to the FMD server which then sends the location data to the requesting user. In some embodiments the FMD module sends the location data to the requesting device . In some embodiments the FMD module determines whether the requesting device is available to receive the location data and if so send the location data to the requesting device but if the requesting device is not available the FMD module sends the location data to the FMD server . In some embodiments the FMD module sends the location data to a personal account associated with the requesting user such as the requesting user s e mail account. Although the above examples of sending location data to a requesting user are described these are just possible embodiment and are not meant to be limiting. One skilled in the art would recognize that the location information can be sent to the requesting user in numerous other ways.

The FMD module can be configured to schedule transmission of the location data in numerous ways. For example in some embodiments the FMD module can be configured to send the location data in set time intervals such as every 10 minutes 30 minutes 1 hour etc. In some embodiments the location data can be sent based on a heuristic that determines when the requesting user would want the location data sent. For example the heuristic can conclude that based on the lost device making a significant movement in location the requesting user would want to be updated of the new location of the lost device . Alternatively the heuristic can determine that the requesting user would like to be updated about the location of the lost device based on the time of day for example first thing in the morning when the requesting user is likely waking up. In some embodiments the heuristic can determine that the requesting user would want messages sent less frequently for example when the battery is running low and sending location data less frequently will preserve the battery life and enable the lost device to be tracked as long as possible.

To terminate lost mode on the lost device the lost mode module can be configured to instruct the user interface module to present a prompt for a password to be entered. If the proper password is entered the FMD module can be configured to terminate the lost mode module thus returning the user interface module to its regular functionality. The lost device can be unlocked and all suppressed functionality can be restored. Further the FMD module can stop collecting and sending location data to the requesting user.

In some embodiments lost mode can be terminated remotely. For example the lost device can receive a command from the requesting user that lost mode be terminated. The command can include the password or require the password be entered prior to being sent. In some embodiments the command can be received from the FMD server . In some embodiments the command can be received from the requesting device .

The request data can also include contact information and a message provided by the requesting user to be displayed on the lost device. The contact information can be any information identifying how the requesting user can be contacted. For example the contact information can be a phone number and be accompanied with the message Please call this number if found. Alternatively the contact information can be an e mail address and be accompanied with the message Please e mail me at this address if you find this device. 

In some embodiments the request data can also include a password. For example the requesting user can set a password that upon lost mode being initiated on the lost device can be used to terminate lost mode and return the lost device to regular functionality.

The requesting user can request that lost mode be initiated on the lost device in numerous ways. For example in some embodiments the requesting user can log into a website configured to prompt a requesting user for request data and send a request that lost mode be initiated on the lost device. In some embodiments the requesting user can use an application running on a requesting device in network communication with the server to request that lost mode be initiated on the lost device. The application can be configured to prompt the user for request data used to create the request.

Upon receiving the request at the server the method continues to block where the server determines whether the requesting user is authorized to initiate lost mode on the lost device. To accomplish this the server can require that the requesting user enter authentication information. For example the requesting user can be prompted to enter a user name and password associated with the lost device. Alternatively the requesting user can be prompted to answer predetermined authentication questions. For example the authentication questions can ask for personal information associated with the known owner of the lost device such as the owner s social security number or mother s maiden name etc.

If it is determined that the requesting user is not authorized to initiate lost mode on the lost device the method can proceed to block wherein the server sends the requesting user a message that the requesting user is not authorized to initiate lost mode on the lost device and the method ends.

If it is determined that the requesting user is authorized to initiate lost mode on the user device the method continues to block wherein a command is sent to the lost device instructing the lost device to initiate lost mode. The command can include the request data received in the request to initiate lost mode such as the contact info message password etc. An exemplary method of lost mode being initiated by the lost device is illustrated in and explained in detail below.

The method illustrated in then determines whether location data is received from the lost device . Location data can be any type of data that describes the location of the lost device. For example location data can include the global positioning system GPS coordinates of the lost device or the street address of the lost device.

If no location data is received from the lost device the method ends. If location data is received the server can send the location data to the requesting user .

After receiving the command the method then continues to block wherein the lost device locks itself from use. For example this can include presenting a lock screen that is void of any UI elements that provide access to functionality of the lost device or any data or applications stored on the user device. In some embodiments the lost device can also be locked so that data stored on the lost device cannot be accessed from another computing device connected to lost device. For example if the lost device is a smart phone connected to a desktop computer the smart phone can be locked so that the files stored on the smart phone cannot be accessed by the desktop computer. Locking the lost device can protect the lost device and the data stored thereon from being accessed by an unauthorized user.

Upon locking the lost device the method next suppresses select functionality of the lost device. This can include functionality that enables use of the lost device or presents information meant for the owner of the lost device. For example functionality such as notifications and alerts displayed on the lost device can be suppressed so that information intended for the owner of the lost device cannot be viewed by an unauthorized user. In some embodiments any external buttons of the lost device can be suppressed to prevent the user from accessing functionality of the lost device. In some embodiments the functionality to turn the lost device off can be suppressed to prevent a thief from prohibiting the lost device from sending location information. Further functionality that can be can suppressed can include outgoing calls voice command functionality camera video camera microphone power etc. Although only the above examples are given they are only a few possible embodiments and are not meant to be limiting. One skilled in the art would recognize that any functionality of the lost device can be suppressed.

Once the lost device is locked and functionality is suppressed the method continues to block wherein the lost device transmits location data to the requesting user. The location data can be any data that identifies the location of the lost device. For example the location data can be the GPS coordinates of the lost device.

After collecting the location data and the associated time the method determines whether the requesting device is available to receive the location data. The requesting device can be available if the requesting device is in a state that allows data to be received at the requesting device from the lost device. For example in some embodiments the requesting device is available if the requesting device is in network communication with the lost device. In some embodiments the requesting device is available if the requesting device is logged into or running an application configured to receive and present the location data. If the requesting device is available the lost device can transmit the location data to the requesting device . If the requesting device is not available the lost device can transmit the location data to the server where it can be stored until the requesting device is available or until the requesting device accesses it from the server.

After the location data has been transmitted the method can determine whether a transmission condition has been triggered . A transmission condition can be a condition that when met instructs the lost device to transmit the location data to the requesting user. In some embodiments the transmission condition can be triggered upon a predetermined amount of time passing since the last time location data was transmitted. For example the transmission condition can be triggered upon an hour passing from the last time location data was transmitted.

In some embodiments the transmission condition can be triggered upon the lost device making a significant change in location from the last transmitted location. For example if the transmission condition can be triggered if the lost device travels a mile or more from the previously transmitted location.

The examples given of when a transmission condition can be triggered are just example embodiments and not meant to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that the disclosed system can be configured in any way know in the art.

If it is determined that a transmission condition has been triggered the method can return to block . If a transmission condition is not triggered the method can end.

Returning to upon transmitting the location data the method can then continue to block wherein the contact information and the message are displayed on the lost device. For example the contact information can be a phone number associated with the requesting user and the message can state please call this number if you find this device. This allows a Good Samaritan who finds the lost device to be able to easily contact the requesting user.

The method can also display a user interface element that if selected enables the lost device to contact the requesting user at the given contact information . For example if the lost device is a cellular phone and the contact information is a telephone number a user interface element can be displayed on the lost device that upon selection enables the lost device to make an outbound call to the phone number specified as the contact information. This allows a Good Samaritan to easily contact the requesting user to contact from the lost device itself by simply pressing a single button. Although the user interface element is configured to enable suppressed functionality such as making an outbound call the enabled functionality can be limited to the given contact information. For example a lost smart phone can be enabled to only make a call to the phone number provided by the requesting user.

A requesting user can choose to terminate lost mode on the lost device by entering a password. The method can determine whether the password has been entered and if so terminate lost mode . Terminating lost mode can include removing the lock on the lost device and restoring all suppressed functionality of the lost device. In some embodiments the password can be entered on the lost device itself. In some embodiments the password can be entered remotely for example on a requesting device in communication with the server and a command that the password has been entered can be sent to the lost device.

Additionally a user interface element can be included which enables the lost device to contact the requesting user using the contact information. As illustrated the user interface element can be a button tittle Tap here to Call Owner which is configured to contact the requesting user upon selection. While the user interface element is configured to allow the lost device make an outbound call to the given contact information phone number outbound calls cannot be made to any other phone numbers nor is any other locked or suppressed functionality enabled.

This embodiment also includes a slide to unlock button rather than the password interface of . This is just another possible embodiment and the slide to unlock button can be configured to bring up another page wherein the user is prompted to enter a password to unlock the lost device.

The present disclosure recognizes that the use of such personal information data in the present technology can be used to the benefit of users. For example the personal information data can be used to better understand user behavior facilitate and measure the effectiveness of advertisements applications and delivered content. Accordingly use of such personal information data enables calculated control of the delivered content. For example the system can reduce the number of times a user receives a given ad or other content and can thereby select and deliver content that is more meaningful to users. Such changes in system behavior improve the user experience. Further other uses for personal information data that benefit the user are also contemplated by the present disclosure.

The present disclosure further contemplates that the entities responsible for the collection analysis disclosure transfer storage or other use of such personal information data should implement and consistently use privacy policies and practices that are generally recognized as meeting or exceeding industry or governmental requirements for maintaining personal information data private and secure. For example personal information from users should be collected for legitimate and reasonable uses of the entity and not shared or sold outside of those legitimate uses. Further such collection should occur only after the informed consent of the users. Additionally such entities would take any needed steps for safeguarding and securing access to such personal information data and ensuring that others with access to the personal information data adhere to their privacy and security policies and procedures. Further such entities can subject themselves to evaluation by third parties to certify their adherence to widely accepted privacy policies and practices.

Despite the foregoing the present disclosure also contemplates embodiments in which users selectively block the use of or access to personal information data. That is the present disclosure contemplates that hardware and or software elements can be provided to prevent or block access to such personal information data. For example in the case of advertisement delivery services the present technology can be configured to allow users to select to opt in or opt out of participation in the collection of personal information data during registration for services. In another example users can select not to provide location information for advertisement delivery services. In yet another example users can configure their devices or user terminals to prevent storage or use of cookies and other mechanisms from which personal information data can be discerned. The present disclosure also contemplates that other methods or technologies may exist for blocking access to their personal information data.

Therefore although the present disclosure broadly covers use of personal information data to implement one or more various disclosed embodiments the present disclosure also contemplates that the various embodiments can also be implemented without the need for accessing such personal information data. That is the various embodiments of the present technology are not rendered inoperable due to the lack of all or a portion of such personal information data. For example content can be selected and delivered to users by inferring preferences based on non personal information data or a bare minimum amount of personal information such as the content being requested by the device associated with a user other non personal information available to the content delivery services or publicly available information.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures objects and the functions inherent in the design of special purpose processors etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the principles described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

