---

title: Timing synchronization for downlink (DL) transmissions in coordinated multipoint (CoMP) systems
abstract: Technology for adjusting a receiver timing of a wireless device in a Coordinated MultiPoint (CoMP) system is disclosed. One method can include the wireless device receiving a plurality of node specific reference signals (RSs) from a plurality of cooperating nodes in a coordination set of the CoMP system. The coordination set includes at least two cooperating nodes. The wireless device can estimate a composite received RS timing from a plurality of received RS timings generated from the plurality of node specific RSs. The received RS timings represent timings from the at least two cooperating nodes. The wireless device can adjust the receiver timing based on the composite received RS timing. A node specific RS can include a channel-state information reference signal (CSI-RS).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09351277&OS=09351277&RS=09351277
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09351277
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120605
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 556 109 filed Nov. 4 2011.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. transmission station and a wireless device. Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM combined with a desired digital modulation scheme via a physical layer. Standards and protocols that use OFDM include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with a wireless device e.g. mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node station or eNodeB to the wireless device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets are used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes micro eNBs pica eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes . The macro node can be used for basic coverage and the low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system may be used to reduce interference from neighboring nodes in both homogeneous networks and HetNets. In the Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system the nodes referred to as cooperating nodes can also be grouped together with other nodes where the nodes from multiple cells can transmit signals to the wireless device and receive signals from the wireless device. The cooperating nodes can be nodes in the homogeneous network or macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN in the HetNet. Downlink CoMP transmission can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given wireless device UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a wireless device UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and or dynamic cell selection.

In non CoMP systems timing synchronization at the wireless device e.g. the UE can be carried out by using primary synchronization signals PSS and or cell specific reference signals CRS . In downlink DL CoMP systems and deployments with distributed antennas at different geographical locations timing estimation using PSS and or CRS may not be accurate since the PSS and or CRS transmission point e.g. a macro node in a macro cell may not be the same as a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH transmission point e.g. a lower power node LPN in a LPN cell as illustrated in . In a dynamic point selection DPS DL CoMP example using a common cell identifier ID shown in a DL transmission including a PSS and or a CRS from the macro node to the wireless device e.g. a UE and a separate DL transmission including data or a PDSCH from the LPN to the wireless device can be transmitted at a substantially same time. The DL transmissions can arrive at the wireless device at different times due to different geographical locations of the nodes e.g. the macro node and the LPN and or other factors. The wireless device can be synchronized to the PSS and or CRS transmission point e.g. the macro node . For example an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbol in a macro node transmission and a substantially same OFDM symbol in a LPN transmission can be received by the wireless device e.g. UE at different times due to propagation delays. The OFDM symbol can include a cyclic prefix CP . A UE reception of the macro node DL transmission can have a larger propagation delay than a propagation delay of a UE reception of the LPN DL transmission due to the UE being closer to the LPN than the macro node. If the PSS and or CRS from the macro node are used for timing synchronization the timing of the fast Fourier transform FFT window used to sample the OFDMA symbol can be synchronized to the macro node DL transmission which transmission may not be the earnest transmission within the coordination set. Consequently transmissions from other nodes in the coordination set with timings of OFDM symbols being in advance with respect to the FFT sampling window may be applied by a wireless device. Moreover in some cases the transmission form the macro node may not have the strongest signal power e.g. a reference signal received power RSRP and or provide the data transmission e.g. the PDSCH . In these cases inter carrier interference ICI and inter symbol interference ISI may arise due to incorrect setting of FFT timing at the wireless device. To reduce the ICI and ISI and improve OFDMA symbol reception the receiver timing can be adjusted which can shift the FFT window. A number of FFT samples of the OFDM symbol can be captured in the FFT window used to receive the OFDM symbol. Although a macro node and a LPN are illustrated in any types of nodes in a DL CoMP system may be used.

The timing synchronization of a receiver timing of a wireless device may be modified to use timing estimations generated from node specific reference signals of a CoMP measurement set where basic timing synchronization uses the PSS and or the CRS. A node specific reference signal can include a channel state information reference signal CSI RS . The receiver timing can be the receiver internal processing timing such as the timing where the receiver looks for OFDM symbols boundaries or the moments where the receiver takes FFTs e.g. samples the OFDM symbols . Because different CSI RS configurations can be assigned to different geographically separated transmission points e.g. the macro node and the LPN the timing estimation can be carried out for each transmission point independently. The wireless device can calculate the actual timing for data or a PDSCH reception from multiple nodes based on the multiple timing estimations from CSI RS.

In an example the wireless device can receive a plurality of node specific reference signals RSs such as CSI RSs from a plurality of cooperating nodes e.g. the macro node and the LPN in a coordination set of the CoMP system e.g. a CoMP measurement set . The coordination set can include at least two cooperating nodes. A cooperating node can include a serving node a macro node or a LPN. The wireless device can receive node specific RSs from at least two cooperating nodes. The wireless device can generate or calculate a received RS timing from the node specific RSs for a cooperating node. The wireless device can estimate a composite received RS timing from a plurality of received RS timings. The received RS timings can represent timings from at least two cooperating nodes. The wireless device can adjust the receiver timing based on the composite received RS timing. The adjusted receiver timing can be a time a receiver of the wireless device samples takes or processes the FFT for a received signal or OFDM symbol.

In one embodiment the wireless device can determine an earliest received RS timing from the plurality of received RS timing representing the various cooperating nodes. The estimated composite received RS timing used to adjust the receiver timing and or the FFT window can use or include the earliest received RS timing . The earliest received RS timing can represent a DL transmission with a shortest propagation delay relative to other cooperating nodes. The estimated composite received RS timing or a actual PDSCH timing can be set to the earliest timing among all calculated timings of CoMP measurement set represented by

In another embodiment the wireless device can determine a minimal received RS timing and a maximal received RS timing from the plurality of received RS timing representing the various cooperating nodes. The estimated composite received RS timing can be a value or a receiver RS timing substantially between a minimal received RS timing and a maximal received RS timing. As shown in the minimal received RS timing can include the earliest received RS timing representing a DL transmission with a shortest propagation delay relative to other cooperating nodes. The maximal received RS timing can include the latest received RS timing representing a DL transmission with a longest propagation delay relative to other cooperating nodes.

In another embodiment the composite received RS timing used to adjust the receiver timing and or the FFT window can be determined or calculated by a combination of a reference signal received power RSRP for the cooperating nodes and the received RS timing generated from the node specific RSs of the cooperating nodes. For example the estimated composite received RS timing or an actual timing can be calculated using the weighted sum of CSI RS timings represented by

In another embodiment a sending cooperating node or a controller in a core network can select a selected cooperating node from a plurality of cooperating nodes to be used for a reference cooperating node in adjusting the receiver timing of the wireless device. The sending cooperating node can be a same cooperating node or a different cooperating node from the selected cooperating node. The sending cooperating node can transmit a selection of the selected cooperating node to the wireless device. The wireless device can receive from the cooperating node the selection of the selected cooperating node. The selection of the selected cooperating node can be transmitted or signaled in downlink control information DCI targeted for the wireless device. The wireless device can receive a plurality of node specific RS from the various cooperating nodes. The wireless device can generate a synchronization RS timing from a node specific RS from the selected cooperating node. The synchronization RS timing can be used to adjust the receiver timing of the wireless device for timing synchronization for received data or a received physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . The composite received RS timing can include the synchronization RS timing. In this way a cooperating node e.g. the sending cooperating node or a controller in a core network can select the RS timing to be used for the composite received RS timing used to adjust the receiver timing to receive the PDSCH.

In another example the receiver timing of the wireless device can be adjusted using the information from the node specific RS from a plurality of cooperating nodes and the transmitter timing of at least one cooperating node can be adjusted using the timing feedback to reduce the time between a minimal received RS timing and a maximal received RS timing.

In one example the OFDM symbols and node specific RSs can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a downlink transmission or uplink transmission between a node or eNodeB and the wireless device or UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in . While an LTE frame structure is illustrated a frame structure for an IEEE 802.16 standard WiMax an IEEE 802.11 standard WiFi or another type of communication standard using OFDM may also be used.

Reference signals can be transmitted by OFDM symbols via resource elements in the resource blocks. Reference signals or pilot signals or tones can be a known signal used for various reasons such as to synchronize timing estimate a channel and or noise in the channel. Reference signals can be received and transmitted by transmitting stations and mobile communication devices. Different types of reference signals RS can be used in a RB. For example in LTE systems downlink reference signal types can include a cell specific reference signal CRS a multicast broadcast single frequency network MBSFN reference signal a UE specific reference signal UE specific RS or UE RS or a demodulation reference signal DMRS positioning reference signal PRS and a channel state information reference signal CSI RS .

The CRS can be transmitted in downlink subframes in a cell supporting a PDSCH. Data is transmitted from an eNodeB to a UE via a PDSCH. The MBSFN reference signal can be transmitted when the physical multicast channel PMCH is transmitted in a MBSFN subframe. The UE RS or DMRS can be transmitted in downlink subframes supporting the PDSCH. The UE RS DMRS can be transmitted within the resource blocks assigned for downlink shared channel DL SCH transmission to a specific terminal e.g. mobile communication device used for beamforming to a single UE using multiple antennas and used for PDSCH demodulation. The PRS can be transmitted in an RB in downlink subframe configured for PRS transmission but may not be mapped to a physical broadcast channel PBCH a primary synchronization signal PSS or a secondary synchronization signal SSS . The CSI RS can be used for downlink channel quality measurements.

The additional timing synchronization using the node specific RS or CSI RS over controlling timing synchronization with just the PSS SSS and or CRS signals can allow the receiver timing to be adjusted to receive the data OFDM symbols from different cooperating nodes so that a majority of the OFDM symbol boundaries fall within a guard interval of OFDM symbol which can reduce the ICI and ISI. The receiver timing can include the receiver internal processing timing the timing where the receiver looks for OFDM symbols boundaries or the moments where the receiver takes or samples the FFTs. The additional timing synchronization uses several received reference signal timings from different cooperating nodes instead of just the PSS SSS and or CRS signals from a single node. Each received reference signal RS timing can be from an ith cooperating node where i is a positive integer representing the nodes in the CoMP measurement set. The OFDM symbols boundaries can be in the signal received from ith cooperating node which can include the serving node. The values for the received RS timings can be measured or generated using the node specific RSs or CSI RSs from the ith cooperating node. The timings can include possible delays such as transmitter TX delay propagation delay receiver RX delay and other processing delay.

A wireless communication system can be subdivided into various sections referred to as layers. In the LTE system communication layers can include the physical PHY media access control MAC radio link control RLC packet data convergence protocol PDCP and radio resource control RRC layers. The physical layer can include the basic hardware transmission components of a wireless communication system as illustrated in . A basic multiple input multiple output MIMO system is used for simplicity in illustrating the basic hardware transmission components but the components can also be adapted for a complex MIMO system a SISO system or similar system. For example in a MIMO system at the transmitter binary input data can be protected through encoding using a channel encoder interleaved against fading phenomenon using an interleaver and mapped to improve reliability using a mapper . The mapped data can be separated into layers for antenna ports by a transmitter TX beamformer and the layers can be OFDM modulated into OFDM symbols using modulators A B. The modulators can use an inverse fast Fourier transform IFFT algorithm to compute the inverse discrete Fourier transform IDFT to generate modulated signals vector x for each antenna port . The modulated signals can be converted to analog signals with digital to analog converters DACs A B. The analog signals can be transmitted via radio frequency RF transmitters Txs A B configured to send the signal to transmitter antennas A B operable to communicate the signal. The analog signals will follow a path referred to as a channel . The physical layer can include other components not shown such as series to parallel S P converters parallel to serial P S converters cyclic prefix CP inserters and deleters guardband inserters and deleters and other desired components.

The signal transmitted through a channel can be subject to noise and interference . The noise and interference is represented as an addition to the channel signal which can be received by receiver antennas A B and one or more radio frequency RF receivers Rxs A B at the receiver . The channel signal combined with the noise and interference can be converted to a digital modulated signal with analog to digital converters ADCs A B. The digital signal can be OFDM demodulated using demodulators A B. The demodulators can use a fast Fourier transform FFT algorithm to compute the discrete Fourier transform DFT to generate demodulated signals vector y for each antenna port . A channel estimator can use the demodulated signal to estimate the channel and the noise and interference that occurs in the channel. The channel estimator can include a feedback generator or be in communication with the feedback generator which can generate a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH feedback report such as a channel quality indicator CQI report a precoding matrix indicator PMI report or a transmission rank indicator RI report. The CQI can be used to assist the MIMO transmissions modes. The demodulated signals can be combined using a MIMO decoder demapped using a demapper deinterleaved using a deinterleaver and decoded by a channel decoder to generate binary output data that can be used by other layers of the receiving station.

Another example provides a method for adjusting a receiver timing of a wireless device in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving a plurality of node specific reference signals RSs at a wireless device from a plurality of cooperating nodes in a coordination set of the CoMP system wherein the coordination set includes at least two cooperating nodes as in block . The operation of estimating a composite received RS timing from a plurality of received RS timings generated from the plurality of node specific RSs wherein the received RS timings represent timings from the at least two cooperating nodes follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be adjusting the receiver timing based at least in part on the composite received RS timing as in block .

The node specific RS can include a channel state information reference signal CSI RS . The adjusted receiver timing can be a time a receiver of the wireless device processes the fast Fourier transform FFT for a received signal.

In an embodiment the operation of estimating a composite received RS timing can further include selecting an earliest received RS timing for the composite received RS timing. The composite received RS timing can be represented by

In another embodiment the operation of estimating a composite received RS timing can further include selecting a receiver RS timing substantially between a minimal received RS timing and a maximal received RS timing. The minimal received RS timing can include the timing generated from the first received node specific RS of a first cooperating node and the maximal received RS timing can include the timing generated from the last received node specific RS of a last cooperating node. In an example the composite received RS timing can be determined by a combination of a reference signal received power RSRP for the cooperating nodes and the received RS timing generated from the node specific RSs of the cooperating nodes. In another example the composite received RS timing can be represented by

The method can further include the wireless device transmitting from to a cooperating node a timing feedback including the composite received RS timing. In another example the method can further include the wireless device transmitting from to a cooperating node a timing feedback including a received RS timing generated from the node specific RSs from the cooperating node. The node specific RS can include a primary synchronization signal PSS a secondary synchronization signal SSS a cell specific reference signal CRS or a channel state information reference signal CSI RS .

Another example provides a method for synchronizing a timing of a downlink DL transmission of a first cooperating node relative to a downlink transmission of a second cooperating node in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of receiving at the first cooperating node from a wireless device a timing feedback wherein timing feedback includes at least one received reference signal RS timing generated from a node specific RS of at least one cooperating node as in block . The operation of modifying a downlink transmission timing at the first cooperating node by an adjustment timing using the timing feedback follows as in block .

The timing feedback includes a composite received RS timing or the first cooperating node received RS timing. The composite received RS timing can be estimated from a plurality of received RS timings representing timings from at least two cooperating nodes. The first cooperating node received RS timing can be generated from the node specific RSs from the first cooperating node. The received RS timings can be generated from the plurality of node specific RSs.

In an example the composite received RS timing can include a first cooperating node received RS timing generated from the node specific RSs from the first cooperating node. The node specific reference signal includes a channel state information reference signal CSI RS . The downlink transmission includes data or a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . The operation of modifying the downlink transmission timing can further include shifting an inverse fast Fourier transform IFFT timing of a downlink signal used for the downlink transmission based on the composite received RS timing or the first cooperating node received RS timing. The method can further include the first cooperating node e.g. the sending cooperating node selecting a selected cooperating node from a plurality of cooperating nodes. A node specific RS from the selected cooperating node can be used by the wireless device to generate a synchronization RS timing and the synchronization RS timing can be used for timing synchronization for received data or a received physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . the first cooperating node can transmit a selection of the selected cooperating node to the wireless device. The synchronization RS timing can be used to adjust a receiver timing of the wireless device for received data or the received PDSCH. The method can further include the first cooperating node transmitting a node specific RS to the wireless device prior to receiving the timing feedback.

The wireless device e.g. UE can be in communication with the cooperating nodes A B. The wireless device can include a timing estimation device for estimating a receiver timing of a wireless device in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system. The timing estimation device can include downlink receiving module and a timing estimator . In some embodiments the timing estimation device can include a timing adjustment module and uplink UL transmitting module . The wireless device can include a transceiver configured to receive DL transmission information from the cooperating nodes and transmit UL transmission information to the cooperating nodes.

The downlink receiving module can be configured to receive a plurality of node specific reference signals RSs at a wireless device from a plurality of cooperating nodes in a coordination set of the CoMP system. The coordination set can include at least two cooperating nodes. The downlink receiving module can be further configured to receive a selection of a selected cooperating node. The selected cooperating node can be selected by or a controller in a core network or a cooperating node from a plurality of cooperating nodes. A node specific RS from the selected cooperating node can be used by the wireless device to generate a synchronization RS timing and the synchronization RS timing can be used for timing synchronization or to adjust a receiver timing of the wireless device for received data or a received physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . The timing estimator can be configured to estimate a composite received RS timing from a plurality of received RS timings generated from the plurality of node specific RSs. The received RS timings can represent timings from the at least two cooperating nodes. The node specific RS includes a channel state information reference signal CSI RS . In an example the timing estimator can be configured to select an earliest received RS timing for the composite received RS timing. The composite received RS timing can be represented by

The timing adjustment module can be configured to adjust the receiver timing based on the composite received RS timing. The adjusted receiver timing can be a time a receiver of the wireless device processes the fast Fourier transform FFT for a received signal. The time can represent a boundary of a FFT window. The uplink transmitting module can be configured to transmit to a cooperating node a timing feedback including the composite received RS timing or a received RS timing generated from the node specific RSs from the cooperating node. The wireless device can include a user equipment UE and a mobile station MS . The wireless device can configured to connect to at least one of a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and a wireless wide area network WWAN . The wireless device can include an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Each cooperating node A B can include a timing synchronization device A B for synchronizing a timing of a downlink DL transmission of a first cooperating node relative to a downlink transmission of a second cooperating node in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system. The timing synchronization device can include a downlink transmitting module A B an uplink receiving module A B and a timing modification module A B. In an example the timing synchronization device can include a selection module not shown . In another example the selection module can be included in a controller in a core network. The cooperating nodes can be in coordination set of the CoMP system and communicate with each other via a backhaul link . The backhaul link can include X2 signaling or backhaul link signaling via a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection. The communication between cooperating nodes can include COMP measurement set information.

The uplink receiving module A B can be configured to receive from a wireless device a timing feedback. The timing feedback can include at least one received reference signal RS timing generated from a node specific RS of at least one cooperating node. The timing feedback can include a composite received reference signal RS timing or a first cooperating node received RS timing. The composite received RS timing can be estimated from a plurality of received RS timings representing timings from at least two cooperating nodes and the received RS timings can be generated from the plurality of node specific RSs. The first cooperating node received RS timing can be generated from the node specific RSs from the first cooperating node. The timing modification module A B can be configured to modify a downlink transmission timing at the first cooperating node by an adjustment timing using the timing feedback. The node specific reference signal includes a channel state information reference signal CSI RS . The timing modification module can be further configured to shift a fast inverse Fourier transform IFFT timing of a downlink signal used for the downlink transmission by the composite received RS timing or a cooperating node received RS timing. A downlink transmitting module A B can be configured to transmit a node specific RS to the wireless device. The selection module can be configured to select a selected cooperating node from a plurality of cooperating nodes. A node specific RS from the selected cooperating node can be used by the wireless device to generate a synchronization RS timing and the synchronization RS timing can be used for timing synchronization for received data or a received physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . The downlink transmitting module can be further configured to transmit a selection of the selected cooperating node to the wireless device. The synchronization RS timing can be used to adjust a receiver timing of the wireless device for received data or the received PDSCH. The cooperating node can include a macro node a low power node LPN a macro evolved Node B macro eNB a micro eNB a pica eNB a femto eNB or a home eNB HeNB .

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive facility and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

