---

title: Surgical instruments with fluid management system
abstract: Various surgical instruments are disclosed. At least one surgical instrument includes an instrument mounting portion configured to mount to a robotic surgical system. The instrument mounting portion includes an interface to mechanically and electrically interface to the surgical instrument adapted for use with the robotic surgical system. A fluid management system is contained within the instrument mounting portion. The fluid management system includes a first container to contain a first fluid agent to be dispensed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09283045&OS=09283045&RS=09283045
owner: Ethicon Endo-Surgery, LLC
number: 09283045
owner_city: Los Frailes Industrial Park Guaynabo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
The present application is related to the following concurrently filed U.S. Patent Applications each filed on Jun. 29 2012 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 539 096 entitled Haptic Feedback Devices for Surgical Robot now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005682 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 539 110 entitled Lockout Mechanism for Use with Robotic Electrosurgical Device now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005654 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 539 117 entitled Closed Feedback Control for Electrosurgical Device now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005667 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 538 588 entitled Surgical Instruments with Articulating Shafts now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005701 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 538 601 entitled Ultrasonic Surgical Instruments with Distally Positioned Transducers now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005702 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 538 700 entitled Surgical Instruments with Articulating Shafts now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005703 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 538 711 entitled Ultrasonic Surgical Instruments with Distally Positioned Jaw Assemblies now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005704 

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 538 720 entitled Surgical Instruments with Articulating Shafts now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005705 and

U.S. application Ser. No. 13 538 733 entitled Ultrasonic Surgical Instruments with Control Mechanisms now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005681.

Various embodiments are directed to surgical devices including various fluid management systems for use with surgical devices.

Ultrasonic surgical devices such as ultrasonic scalpels are used in many applications in surgical procedures by virtue of their unique performance characteristics. Depending upon specific device configurations and operational parameters ultrasonic surgical devices can provide substantially simultaneous transection of tissue and homeostasis by coagulation desirably minimizing patient trauma. An ultrasonic surgical device comprises a proximally positioned ultrasonic transducer and an instrument coupled to the ultrasonic transducer having a distally mounted end effector comprising an ultrasonic blade to cut and seal tissue. The end effector is typically coupled either to a handle and or a robotic surgical implement via a shaft. The blade is acoustically coupled to the transducer via a waveguide extending through the shaft. Ultrasonic surgical devices of this nature can be configured for open surgical use laparoscopic or endoscopic surgical procedures including robotic assisted procedures.

Ultrasonic energy cuts and coagulates tissue using temperatures lower than those used in electrosurgical procedures. Vibrating at high frequencies e.g. 55 500 times per second the ultrasonic blade denatures protein in the tissue to form a sticky coagulum. Pressure exerted on tissue by the blade surface collapses blood vessels and allows the coagulum to form a hemostatic seal. A surgeon can control the cutting speed and coagulation by the force applied to the tissue by the end effector the time over which the force is applied and the selected excursion level of the end effector.

Also used in many surgical applications are electrosurgical devices. Electrosurgical devices apply electrical energy to tissue in order to treat tissue. An electrosurgical device may comprise an instrument having a distally mounted end effector comprising one or more electrodes. The end effector can be positioned against tissue such that electrical current is introduced into the tissue. Electrosurgical devices can be configured for bipolar or monopolar operation. During bipolar operation current is introduced into and returned from the tissue by active and return electrodes respectively of the end effector. During monopolar operation current is introduced into the tissue by an active electrode of the end effector and returned through a return electrode e.g. a grounding pad separately located on a patient s body. Heat generated by the current flow through the tissue may form haemostatic seals within the tissue and or between tissues and thus may be particularly useful for sealing blood vessels for example. The end effector of an electrosurgical device sometimes also comprises a cutting member that is movable relative to the tissue and the electrodes to transect the tissue.

Electrical energy applied by an electrosurgical device can be transmitted to the instrument by a generator. The electrical energy may be in the form of radio frequency RF energy. RF energy is a form of electrical energy that may be in the frequency range of 300 kHz to 1 MHz. During its operation an electrosurgical device can transmit low frequency RF energy through tissue which causes ionic agitation or friction in effect resistive heating thereby increasing the temperature of the tissue. Because a sharp boundary may be created between the affected tissue and the surrounding tissue surgeons can operate with a high level of precision and control without sacrificing un targeted adjacent tissue. The low operating temperatures of RF energy may be useful for removing shrinking or sculpting soft tissue while simultaneously sealing blood vessels. RF energy may work particularly well on connective tissue which is primarily comprised of collagen and shrinks when contacted by heat.

In many cases it is desirable to utilize an ultrasonic blade that is curved or otherwise asymmetric. Currently asymmetric blades are machined into a curved state. Balancing these blades e.g. minimizing transverse vibration is accomplished by machining notches or other features into the blades at key locations. Selecting the locations of the notches or other features as well as the machining itself adds greatly to the cost and complexity of the blades.

With respect to both ultrasonic and electrosurgical devices it is often desirable to employ a fluid management system to dispense a fluid to a treatment region.

Various embodiments described herein are directed to surgical instruments comprising a fluid management system. In one embodiment a surgical instrument comprises an instrument mounting portion configured to mount to a robotic surgical system. The instrument mounting portion comprises an interface to mechanically and electrically interface to the surgical instrument adapted for use with the robotic surgical system. A fluid management system is contained within the instrument mounting portion the fluid management system comprising a first container to contain a first fluid agent to be dispensed.

Various embodiments are directed to an ultrasonic blade for use with a surgical instrument. The ultrasonic blade may comprise a proximally positioned straight section extending along a longitudinal axis and a distally positioned curved section coupled to the straight section and curved away from the longitudinal axis. The curved section may define a radius of curvature and may subtend a first angle. The point of tangency between the curved section and the straight section may be at either a node or an anti node of the ultrasonic blade. The ultrasonic blade may be balanced for example based on properties of the curved section. A balanced ultrasonic blade may have vibrational modes that are purely and or substantially longitudinal e.g. in the direction of the longitudinal axis . To achieve balance the ultrasonic blade may be constructed as described above such that a node and or anti node occurs at the point of tangency when the ultrasonic blade is driven at a resonant frequency. In some example embodiments all or a portion of the proximally positioned straight section may be considered all or part of a waveguide extending proximally from the ultrasonic blade to a transducer as described herein.

Some embodiments are directed to a surgical instrument comprising an end effector and an articulatable shaft extending along a longitudinal axis. The shaft may comprise a flexible portion. A waveguide is acoustically coupled to the ultrasonic blade and extends proximally from the blade through the shaft. The waveguide may comprise a bendable waveguide portion positioned on the longitudinal axis at about the position of the flexible portion of the shaft. The waveguide may also comprise first and second flanges positioned at nodes of the waveguide. The first flange may be positioned distally from the bendable waveguide portion with the second flange positioned proximally from the bendable waveguide portion. A first control member may be coupled to the first flange and extend proximally through the second flange and shaft. Proximal translation of the first control member may pull the first flange proximally causing the shaft and waveguide to pivot away from the longitudinal axis towards the first control member.

Other embodiments are directed to a surgical instrument comprising an end effector to treat tissue along with outer and inner shafts that are translatable relative to one another along a longitudinal axis. The inner shaft comprises a biased portion that is biased to bend away from the longitudinal axis in a first direction. When the biased portion of the inner shaft is within the outer shaft the inner and outer shafts may be substantially straight along the longitudinal axis. When the biased portion of the inner shaft is outside of the outer shaft e.g. positioned distally from the inner shaft the inner shaft and end effector may pivot away from the longitudinal axis in the first direction.

In additional embodiments a surgical instrument comprises a shaft extending along a longitudinal axis with an ultrasonic blade positioned therein. The ultrasonic blade may comprise a proximally positioned straight section and a distally positioned curved section. The ultrasonic blade may be translatable along the longitudinal axis relative to the shaft from a first position where the curved section of the blade extends from a distal end of the shaft to a second position where the curved section of the blade is at least partially contained within the shaft.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments including embodiments showing example implementations of manual and robotic surgical instruments with end effectors comprising ultrasonic and or electrosurgical elements. Wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict example embodiments of the disclosed surgical instruments and or methods of use for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative example embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

In various embodiments the generator comprises several functional elements such as modules and or blocks. Different functional elements or modules may be configured for driving different kinds of surgical devices. For example an ultrasonic generator module may drive an ultrasonic device such as the ultrasonic surgical instrument . In some example embodiments the generator also comprises an electrosurgery RF generator module for driving an electrosurgical device or an electrosurgical embodiment of the ultrasonic surgical instrument . In various embodiments the generator may be formed integrally within the handle assembly . In such implementations a battery would be co located within the handle assembly to act as the energy source. and accompanying disclosures provide one example of such implementations. As shown in according to various embodiments the ultrasonic generator module and or the electrosurgery RF generator module may be located external to the generator shown in phantom as ultrasonic generator module and electrosurgery RF generator module .

In some embodiments the electrosurgery RF generator module may be configured to generate a therapeutic and or a sub therapeutic energy level. In the example embodiment illustrated in the generator includes a control system integral with the generator and a foot switch connected to the generator via a cable . The generator may also comprise a triggering mechanism for activating a surgical instrument such as the instrument . The triggering mechanism may include a power switch not shown as well as a foot switch . When activated by the foot switch the generator may provide energy to drive the acoustic assembly of the surgical instrument and to drive the end effector at a predetermined excursion level. The generator drives or excites the acoustic assembly at any suitable resonant frequency of the acoustic assembly and or derives the therapeutic sub therapeutic electromagnetic RF energy.

In one embodiment the electrosurgical RF generator module may be implemented as an electrosurgery unit ESU capable of supplying power sufficient to perform bipolar electrosurgery using radio frequency RF energy. In one embodiment the ESU can be a bipolar ERBE ICC 350 sold by ERBE USA Inc. of Marietta Ga. In bipolar electrosurgery applications as previously discussed a surgical instrument having an active electrode and a return electrode can be utilized wherein the active electrode and the return electrode can be positioned against or adjacent to the tissue to be treated such that current can flow from the active electrode to the return electrode through the tissue. Accordingly the electrosurgical RF module generator may be configured for therapeutic purposes by applying electrical energy to the tissue T sufficient for treating the tissue e.g. cauterization .

In one embodiment the electrosurgical RF generator module may be configured to deliver a sub therapeutic RF signal to implement a tissue impedance measurement module. In one embodiment the electrosurgical RF generator module comprises a bipolar radio frequency generator as described in more detail below. In one embodiment the electrosurgical RF generator module may be configured to monitor electrical impedance Z of tissue T and to control the characteristics of time and power level based on the tissue T by way of a return electrode on provided on a clamp member of the end effector assembly . Accordingly the electrosurgical RF generator module may be configured for sub therapeutic purposes for measuring the impedance or other electrical characteristics of the tissue T. Techniques and circuit configurations for measuring the impedance or other electrical characteristics of tissue T are discussed in more detail in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0015631 titled Electrosurgical Generator for Ultrasonic Surgical Instruments the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

A suitable ultrasonic generator module may be configured to functionally operate in a manner similar to the GEN300 sold by Ethicon Endo Surgery Inc. of Cincinnati Ohio as is disclosed in one or more of the following U.S. patents all of which are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Pat. No. 6 480 796 Method for Improving the Start Up of an Ultrasonic System Under Zero Load Conditions U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 291 Method for Detecting Blade Breakage Using Rate and or Impedance Information U.S. Pat. No. 6 662 127 Method for Detecting Presence of a Blade in an Ultrasonic System U.S. Pat. No. 6 679 899 Method for Detecting Transverse Vibrations in an Ultrasonic Hand Piece U.S. Pat. No. 6 977 495 Detection Circuitry for Surgical Handpiece System U.S. Pat. No. 7 077 853 Method for Calculating Transducer Capacitance to Determine Transducer Temperature U.S. Pat. No. 7 179 271 Method for Driving an Ultrasonic System to Improve Acquisition of Blade Resonance Frequency at Startup and U.S. Pat. No. 7 273 483 Apparatus and Method for Alerting Generator Function in an Ultrasonic Surgical System .

It will be appreciated that in various embodiments the generator may be configured to operate in several modes. In one mode the generator may be configured such that the ultrasonic generator module and the electrosurgical RF generator module may be operated independently.

For example the ultrasonic generator module may be activated to apply ultrasonic energy to the end effector assembly and subsequently either therapeutic or sub therapeutic RF energy may be applied to the end effector assembly by the electrosurgical RF generator module . As previously discussed the subtherapeutic electrosurgical RF energy may be applied to tissue clamped between claim elements of the end effector assembly to measure tissue impedance to control the activation or modify the activation of the ultrasonic generator module . Tissue impedance feedback from the application of the subtherapeutic energy also may be employed to activate a therapeutic level of the electrosurgical RF generator module to seal the tissue e.g. vessel clamped between claim elements of the end effector assembly .

In another embodiment the ultrasonic generator module and the electrosurgical RF generator module may be activated simultaneously. In one example the ultrasonic generator module is simultaneously activated with a sub therapeutic RF energy level to measure tissue impedance simultaneously while the ultrasonic blade of the end effector assembly cuts and coagulates the tissue or vessel clamped between the clamp elements of the end effector assembly . Such feedback may be employed for example to modify the drive output of the ultrasonic generator module . In another example the ultrasonic generator module may be driven simultaneously with electrosurgical RF generator module such that the ultrasonic blade portion of the end effector assembly is employed for cutting the damaged tissue while the electrosurgical RF energy is applied to electrode portions of the end effector clamp assembly for sealing the tissue or vessel .

When the generator is activated via the triggering mechanism in one embodiment electrical energy is continuously applied by the generator to a transducer stack or assembly of the acoustic assembly. In another embodiment electrical energy is intermittently applied e.g. pulsed by the generator . A phase locked loop in the control system of the generator may monitor feedback from the acoustic assembly. The phase lock loop adjusts the frequency of the electrical energy sent by the generator to match the resonant frequency of the selected longitudinal mode of vibration of the acoustic assembly. In addition a second feedback loop in the control system maintains the electrical current supplied to the acoustic assembly at a pre selected constant level in order to achieve substantially constant excursion at the end effector of the acoustic assembly. In yet another embodiment a third feedback loop in the control system monitors impedance between electrodes located in the end effector assembly . Although show a manually operated ultrasonic surgical instrument it will be appreciated that ultrasonic surgical instruments may also be used in robotic applications for example as described herein as well as combinations of manual and robotic applications.

In ultrasonic operation mode the electrical signal supplied to the acoustic assembly may cause the distal end of the end effector to vibrate longitudinally in the range of for example approximately 20 kHz to 250 kHz. According to various embodiments the blade may vibrate in the range of about 54 kHz to 56 kHz for example at about 55.5 kHz. In other embodiments the blade may vibrate at other frequencies including for example about 31 kHz or about 80 kHz. The excursion of the vibrations at the blade can be controlled by for example controlling the amplitude of the electrical signal applied to the transducer assembly of the acoustic assembly by the generator . As noted above the triggering mechanism of the generator allows a user to activate the generator so that electrical energy may be continuously or intermittently supplied to the acoustic assembly. The generator also has a power line for insertion in an electro surgical unit or conventional electrical outlet. It is contemplated that the generator can also be powered by a direct current DC source such as a battery. The generator can comprise any suitable generator such as Model No. GEN04 and or Model No. GEN11 available from Ethicon Endo Surgery Inc.

In the illustrated embodiment the trigger assembly comprises a trigger that operates in conjunction with a fixed handle . The fixed handle and the trigger are ergonomically formed and adapted to interface comfortably with the user. The fixed handle is integrally associated with the handle assembly . The trigger is pivotally movable relative to the fixed handle as explained in more detail below with respect to the operation of the ultrasonic surgical instrument . The trigger is pivotally movable in direction A toward the fixed handle when the user applies a squeezing force against the trigger . A spring element causes the trigger to pivotally move in direction B when the user releases the squeezing force against the trigger .

In one example embodiment the trigger comprises an elongated trigger hook which defines an aperture between the elongated trigger hook and the trigger . The aperture is suitably sized to receive one or multiple fingers of the user therethrough. The trigger also may comprise a resilient portion molded over the trigger substrate. The resilient portion is formed to provide a more comfortable contact surface for control of the trigger in outward direction B. In one example embodiment the resilient portion may also be provided over a portion of the elongated trigger hook as shown for example in . The proximal surface of the elongated trigger hook remains uncoated or coated with a non resilient substrate to enable the user to easily slide their fingers in and out of the aperture . In another embodiment the geometry of the trigger forms a fully closed loop which defines an aperture suitably sized to receive one or multiple fingers of the user therethrough. The fully closed loop trigger also may comprise a resilient portion molded over the trigger substrate.

In one example embodiment the fixed handle comprises a proximal contact surface and a grip anchor or saddle surface . The saddle surface rests on the web where the thumb and the index finger are joined on the hand. The proximal contact surface has a pistol grip contour that receives the palm of the hand in a normal pistol grip with no rings or apertures. The profile curve of the proximal contact surface may be contoured to accommodate or receive the palm of the hand. A stabilization tail is located towards a more proximal portion of the handle assembly . The stabilization tail may be in contact with the uppermost web portion of the hand located between the thumb and the index finger to stabilize the handle assembly and make the handle assembly more controllable.

In one example embodiment the switch assembly may comprise a toggle switch . The toggle switch may be implemented as a single component with a central pivot located within inside the handle assembly to eliminate the possibility of simultaneous activation. In one example embodiment the toggle switch comprises a first projecting knob and a second projecting knob to set the power setting of the ultrasonic transducer between a minimum power level e.g. MIN and a maximum power level e.g. MAX . In another embodiment the rocker switch may pivot between a standard setting and a special setting. The special setting may allow one or more special programs to be implemented by the device. The toggle switch rotates about the central pivot as the first projecting knob and the second projecting knob are actuated. The one or more projecting knobs are coupled to one or more arms that move through a small arc and cause electrical contacts to close or open an electric circuit to electrically energize or de energize the ultrasonic transducer in accordance with the activation of the first or second projecting knobs . The toggle switch is coupled to the generator to control the activation of the ultrasonic transducer . The toggle switch comprises one or more electrical power setting switches to activate the ultrasonic transducer to set one or more power settings for the ultrasonic transducer . The forces required to activate the toggle switch are directed substantially toward the saddle point thus avoiding any tendency of the instrument to rotate in the hand when the toggle switch is activated.

In one example embodiment the first and second projecting knobs are located on the distal end of the handle assembly such that they can be easily accessible by the user to activate the power with minimal or substantially no repositioning of the hand grip making it suitable to maintain control and keep attention focused on the surgical site e.g. a monitor in a laparoscopic procedure while activating the toggle switch . The projecting knobs may be configured to wrap around the side of the handle assembly to some extent to be more easily accessible by variable finger lengths and to allow greater freedom of access to activation in awkward positions or for shorter fingers.

In the illustrated embodiment the first projecting knob comprises a plurality of tactile elements e.g. textured projections or bumps in the illustrated embodiment to allow the user to differentiate the first projecting knob from the second projecting knob . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that several ergonomic features may be incorporated into the handle assembly . Such ergonomic features are described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2009 0105750 entitled Ergonomic Surgical Instruments now U.S. Pat. No. 8 623 027 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In one example embodiment the toggle switch may be operated by the hand of the user. The user may easily access the first and second projecting knobs at any point while also avoiding inadvertent or unintentional activation at any time. The toggle switch may readily operated with a finger to control the power to the ultrasonic assembly and or to the ultrasonic assembly . For example the index finger may be employed to activate the first contact portion to turn on the ultrasonic assembly to a maximum MAX power level. The index finger may be employed to activate the second contact portion to turn on the ultrasonic assembly to a minimum MIN power level. In another embodiment the rocker switch may pivot the instrument between a standard setting and a special setting. The special setting may allow one or more special programs to be implemented by the instrument . The toggle switch may be operated without the user having to look at the first or second projecting knob . For example the first projecting knob or the second projecting knob may comprise a texture or projections to tactilely differentiate between the first and second projecting knobs without looking.

In other embodiments the trigger and or the toggle switch may be employed to actuate the electrosurgical RF generator module individually or in combination with activation of the ultrasonic generator module .

In one example embodiment the distal rotation assembly is rotatable without limitation in either direction about a longitudinal axis T. The distal rotation assembly is mechanically engaged to the elongated shaft assembly . The distal rotation assembly is located on a distal end of the handle assembly . The distal rotation assembly comprises a cylindrical hub and a rotation knob formed over the hub . The hub mechanically engages the elongated shaft assembly . The rotation knob may comprise fluted polymeric features and may be engaged by a finger e.g. an index finger to rotate the elongated shaft assembly . The hub may comprise a material molded over the primary structure to form the rotation knob . The rotation knob may be overmolded over the hub . The hub comprises an end cap portion that is exposed at the distal end. The end cap portion of the hub may contact the surface of a trocar during laparoscopic procedures. The hub may be formed of a hard durable plastic such as polycarbonate to alleviate any friction that may occur between the end cap portion and the trocar. The rotation knob may comprise scallops or flutes formed of raised ribs and concave portions located between the ribs to provide a more precise rotational grip. In one example embodiment the rotation knob may comprise a plurality of flutes e.g. three or more flutes . In other embodiments any suitable number of flutes may be employed. The rotation knob may be formed of a softer polymeric material overmolded onto the hard plastic material. For example the rotation knob may be formed of pliable resilient flexible polymeric materials including Versaflex TPE alloys made by GLS Corporation for example. This softer overmolded material may provide a greater grip and more precise control of the movement of the rotation knob . It will be appreciated that any materials that provide adequate resistance to sterilization are biocompatible and provide adequate frictional resistance to surgical gloves may be employed to form the rotation knob .

In one example embodiment the handle assembly is formed from two 2 housing portions or shrouds comprising a first portion and a second portion . From the perspective of a user viewing the handle assembly from the distal end towards the proximal end the first portion is considered the right portion and the second portion is considered the left portion. Each of the first and second portions includes a plurality of interfaces dimensioned to mechanically align and engage each another to form the handle assembly and enclosing the internal working components thereof. The fixed handle which is integrally associated with the handle assembly takes shape upon the assembly of the first and second portions and of the handle assembly . A plurality of additional interfaces not shown may be disposed at various points around the periphery of the first and second portions and of the handle assembly for ultrasonic welding purposes e.g. energy direction deflection points. The first and second portions and as well as the other components described below may be assembled together in any fashion known in the art. For example alignment pins snap like interfaces tongue and groove interfaces locking tabs adhesive ports may all be utilized either alone or in combination for assembly purposes.

In one example embodiment the elongated shaft assembly comprises a proximal end adapted to mechanically engage the handle assembly and the distal rotation assembly and a distal end adapted to mechanically engage the end effector assembly . The elongated shaft assembly comprises an outer tubular sheath and a reciprocating tubular actuating member located within the outer tubular sheath . The proximal end of the tubular reciprocating tubular actuating member is mechanically engaged to the trigger of the handle assembly to move in either direction A or B in response to the actuation and or release of the trigger . The pivotably moveable trigger may generate reciprocating motion along the longitudinal axis T. Such motion may be used for example to actuate the jaws or clamping mechanism of the end effector assembly . A series of linkages translate the pivotal rotation of the trigger to axial movement of a yoke coupled to an actuation mechanism which controls the opening and closing of the jaws of the clamping mechanism of the end effector assembly . The distal end of the tubular reciprocating tubular actuating member is mechanically engaged to the end effector assembly . In the illustrated embodiment the distal end of the tubular reciprocating tubular actuating member is mechanically engaged to a clamp arm assembly which is pivotable about a pivot point to open and close the clamp arm assembly in response to the actuation and or release of the trigger . For example in the illustrated embodiment the clamp arm assembly is movable in direction A from an open position to a closed position about a pivot point when the trigger is squeezed in direction A. The clamp arm assembly is movable in direction B from a closed position to an open position about the pivot point when the trigger is released or outwardly contacted in direction B.

In one example embodiment the end effector assembly is attached at the distal end of the elongated shaft assembly and includes a clamp arm assembly and a blade . The jaws of the clamping mechanism of the end effector assembly are formed by clamp arm assembly and the blade . The blade is ultrasonically actuatable and is acoustically coupled to the ultrasonic transducer . The trigger on the handle assembly is ultimately connected to a drive assembly which together mechanically cooperate to effect movement of the clamp arm assembly . Squeezing the trigger in direction A moves the clamp arm assembly in direction A from an open position wherein the clamp arm assembly and the blade are disposed in a spaced relation relative to one another to a clamped or closed position wherein the clamp arm assembly and the blade cooperate to grasp tissue therebetween. The clamp arm assembly may comprise a clamp pad not shown to engage tissue between the blade and the clamp arm . Releasing the trigger in direction B moves the clamp arm assembly in direction B from a closed relationship to an open position wherein the clamp arm assembly and the blade are disposed in a spaced relation relative to one another.

The proximal portion of the handle assembly comprises a proximal opening to receive the distal end of the ultrasonic assembly . The ultrasonic assembly is inserted in the proximal opening and is mechanically engaged to the elongated shaft assembly .

In one example embodiment the elongated trigger hook portion of the trigger provides a longer trigger lever with a shorter span and rotation travel. The longer lever of the elongated trigger hook allows the user to employ multiple fingers within the aperture to operate the elongated trigger hook and cause the trigger to pivot in direction B to open the jaws of the end effector assembly . For example the user may insert three fingers e.g. the middle ring and little fingers in the aperture . Multiple fingers allows the surgeon to exert higher input forces on the trigger and the elongated trigger hook to activate the end effector assembly . The shorter span and rotation travel creates a more comfortable grip when closing or squeezing the trigger in direction A or when opening the trigger in the outward opening motion in direction B lessening the need to extend the fingers further outward. This substantially lessens hand fatigue and strain associated with the outward opening motion of the trigger in direction B. The outward opening motion of the trigger may be spring assisted by spring element to help alleviate fatigue. The opening spring force is sufficient to assist the ease of opening but not strong enough to adversely impact the tactile feedback of tissue tension during spreading dissection.

For example during a surgical procedure either the index finger may be used to control the rotation of the elongated shaft assembly to locate the jaws of the end effector assembly in a suitable orientation. The middle and or the other lower fingers may be used to squeeze the trigger and grasp tissue within the jaws. Once the jaws are located in the desired position and the jaws are clamped against the tissue the index finger can be used to activate the toggle switch to adjust the power level of the ultrasonic transducer to treat the tissue. Once the tissue has been treated the user the may release the trigger by pushing outwardly in the distal direction against the elongated trigger hook with the middle and or lower fingers to open the jaws of the end effector assembly . This basic procedure may be performed without the user having to adjust their grip of the handle assembly .

As previously discussed the clamp arm assembly may comprise electrodes electrically coupled to the electrosurgical RF generator module to receive therapeutic and or sub therapeutic energy where the electrosurgical RF energy may be applied to the electrodes either simultaneously or non simultaneously with the ultrasonic energy being applied to the blade . Such energy activations may be applied in any suitable combinations to achieve a desired tissue effect in cooperation with an algorithm or other control logic.

In one example embodiment an ultrasonic transmission waveguide is disposed inside the reciprocating tubular actuating member . The distal end of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide is acoustically coupled e.g. directly or indirectly mechanically coupled to the blade and the proximal end of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide is received within the handle assembly . The proximal end of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide is adapted to acoustically couple to the distal end of the ultrasonic transducer as discussed in more detail below. The ultrasonic transmission waveguide is isolated from the other elements of the elongated shaft assembly by a protective sheath and a plurality of isolation elements such as silicone rings. The outer tubular sheath the reciprocating tubular actuating member and the ultrasonic transmission waveguide are mechanically engaged by a pin . The switch assembly comprises the toggle switch and electrical elements to electrically energize the ultrasonic transducer in accordance with the activation of the first or second projecting knobs 

In one example embodiment the outer tubular sheath isolates the user or the patient from the ultrasonic vibrations of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide . The outer tubular sheath generally includes a hub . The outer tubular sheath is threaded onto the distal end of the handle assembly . The ultrasonic transmission waveguide extends through the opening of the outer tubular sheath and the isolation elements isolate the ultrasonic transmission waveguide from the outer tubular sheath . The outer tubular sheath may be attached to the waveguide with the pin . The hole to receive the pin in the waveguide may occur nominally at a displacement node. The waveguide may screw or snap into the hand piece handle assembly by a stud. Flat portions on the hub may allow the assembly to be torqued to a required level. In one example embodiment the hub portion of the outer tubular sheath is preferably constructed from plastic and the tubular elongated portion of the outer tubular sheath is fabricated from stainless steel. Alternatively the ultrasonic transmission waveguide may comprise polymeric material surrounding it to isolate it from outside contact.

In one example embodiment the distal end of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide may be coupled to the proximal end of the blade by an internal threaded connection preferably at or near an antinode. It is contemplated that the blade may be attached to the ultrasonic transmission waveguide by any suitable means such as a welded joint or the like. Although the blade may be detachable from the ultrasonic transmission waveguide it is also contemplated that the single element end effector e.g. the blade and the ultrasonic transmission waveguide may be formed as a single unitary piece.

In one example embodiment the trigger is coupled to a linkage mechanism to translate the rotational motion of the trigger in directions A and B to the linear motion of the reciprocating tubular actuating member in corresponding directions A and B. The trigger comprises a first set of flanges with openings formed therein to receive a first yoke pin . The first yoke pin is also located through a set of openings formed at the distal end of the yoke . The trigger also comprises a second set of flanges to receive a first end of a link . A trigger pin is received in openings formed in the link and the second set of flanges . The trigger pin is received in the openings formed in the link and the second set of flanges and is adapted to couple to the first and second portions of the handle assembly to form a trigger pivot point for the trigger . A second end of the link is received in a slot formed in a proximal end of the yoke and is retained therein by a second yoke pin . As the trigger is pivotally rotated about the pivot point formed by the trigger pin the yoke translates horizontally along longitudinal axis T in a direction indicated by arrows A B.

In one example embodiment the distal end of the end bell is connected to the proximal end of the transduction portion and the proximal end of the fore bell is connected to the distal end of the transduction portion . The fore bell and the end bell have a length determined by a number of variables including the thickness of the transduction portion the density and modulus of elasticity of the material used to manufacture the end bell and the fore bell and the resonant frequency of the ultrasonic transducer . The fore bell may be tapered inwardly from its proximal end to its distal end to amplify the ultrasonic vibration amplitude as the velocity transformer or alternately may have no amplification. A suitable vibrational frequency range may be about 20 Hz to 32 kHz and a well suited vibrational frequency range may be about 30 10 kHz. A suitable operational vibrational frequency may be approximately 55.5 kHz for example.

In one example embodiment the piezoelectric elements may be fabricated from any suitable material such as for example lead zirconate titanate lead meta niobate lead titanate barium titanate or other piezoelectric ceramic material. Each of positive electrodes negative electrodes and the piezoelectric elements has a bore extending through the center. The positive and negative electrodes and are electrically coupled to wires and respectively. The wires and are encased within the cable and electrically connectable to the ultrasonic signal generator .

The ultrasonic transducer of the acoustic assembly converts the electrical signal from the ultrasonic signal generator into mechanical energy that results in primarily a standing acoustic wave of longitudinal vibratory motion of the ultrasonic transducer and the blade portion of the end effector assembly at ultrasonic frequencies. In another embodiment the vibratory motion of the ultrasonic transducer may act in a different direction. For example the vibratory motion may comprise a local longitudinal component of a more complicated motion of the tip of the elongated shaft assembly . A suitable generator is available as model number GEN11 from Ethicon Endo Surgery Inc. Cincinnati Ohio. When the acoustic assembly is energized a vibratory motion standing wave is generated through the acoustic assembly . The ultrasonic surgical instrument is designed to operate at a resonance such that an acoustic standing wave pattern of predetermined amplitude is produced. The amplitude of the vibratory motion at any point along the acoustic assembly depends upon the location along the acoustic assembly at which the vibratory motion is measured. A minimum or zero crossing in the vibratory motion standing wave is generally referred to as a node i.e. where motion is minimal and a local absolute value maximum or peak in the standing wave is generally referred to as an anti node e.g. where local motion is maximal . The distance between an anti node and its nearest node is one quarter wavelength 4 .

The wires and transmit an electrical signal from the ultrasonic signal generator to the positive electrodes and the negative electrodes . The piezoelectric elements are energized by the electrical signal supplied from the ultrasonic signal generator in response to an actuator such as a foot switch for example to produce an acoustic standing wave in the acoustic assembly . The electrical signal causes disturbances in the piezoelectric elements in the form of repeated small displacements resulting in large alternating compression and tension forces within the material. The repeated small displacements cause the piezoelectric elements to expand and contract in a continuous manner along the axis of the voltage gradient producing longitudinal waves of ultrasonic energy. The ultrasonic energy is transmitted through the acoustic assembly to the blade portion of the end effector assembly via a transmission component or an ultrasonic transmission waveguide portion of the elongated shaft assembly .

In one example embodiment in order for the acoustic assembly to deliver energy to the blade portion of the end effector assembly all components of the acoustic assembly must be acoustically coupled to the blade . The distal end of the ultrasonic transducer may be acoustically coupled at the surface to the proximal end of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide by a threaded connection such as a stud .

In one example embodiment the components of the acoustic assembly are preferably acoustically tuned such that the length of any assembly is an integral number of one half wavelengths n 2 where the wavelength is the wavelength of a pre selected or operating longitudinal vibration drive frequency fof the acoustic assembly . It is also contemplated that the acoustic assembly may incorporate any suitable arrangement of acoustic elements.

In one example embodiment the blade may have a length substantially equal to an integral multiple of one half system wavelengths n 2 . A distal end of the blade may be disposed near an antinode in order to provide the maximum longitudinal excursion of the distal end. When the transducer assembly is energized the distal end of the blade may be configured to move in the range of for example approximately 10 to 500 microns peak to peak and preferably in the range of about 30 to 64 microns at a predetermined vibrational frequency of 55 kHz for example.

In one example embodiment the blade may be coupled to the ultrasonic transmission waveguide . The blade and the ultrasonic transmission waveguide as illustrated are formed as a single unit construction from a material suitable for transmission of ultrasonic energy. Examples of such materials include Ti6Al4V an alloy of Titanium including Aluminum and Vanadium Aluminum Stainless Steel or other suitable materials. Alternately the blade may be separable and of differing composition from the ultrasonic transmission waveguide and coupled by for example a stud weld glue quick connect or other suitable known methods. The length of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide may be substantially equal to an integral number of one half wavelengths n 2 for example. The ultrasonic transmission waveguide may be preferably fabricated from a solid core shaft constructed out of material suitable to propagate ultrasonic energy efficiently such as the titanium alloy discussed above i.e. Ti6Al4V or any suitable aluminum alloy or other alloys for example.

In one example embodiment the ultrasonic transmission waveguide comprises a longitudinally projecting attachment post at a proximal end to couple to the surface of the ultrasonic transmission waveguide by a threaded connection such as the stud . The ultrasonic transmission waveguide may include a plurality of stabilizing silicone rings or compliant supports positioned at a plurality of nodes. The silicone rings dampen undesirable vibration and isolate the ultrasonic energy from an outer protective sheath assuring the flow of ultrasonic energy in a longitudinal direction to the distal end of the blade with maximum efficiency.

The distal end of the cylindrical hub comprises a circumferential lip and a circumferential bearing surface . The circumferential lip engages a groove formed in the housing and the circumferential bearing surface engages the housing . Thus the cylindrical hub is mechanically retained within the two housing portions not shown of the housing . The circumferential lip of the cylindrical hub is located or trapped between the first and second housing portions and is free to rotate in place within the groove. The circumferential bearing surface bears against interior portions of the housing to assist proper rotation. Thus the cylindrical hub is free to rotate in place within the housing. The user engages the flutes formed on the proximal rotation knob with either the finger or the thumb to rotate the cylindrical hub within the housing .

In one example embodiment the cylindrical hub may be formed of a durable plastic such as polycarbonate. In one example embodiment the cylindrical hub may be formed of a siliconized polycarbonate material. In one example embodiment the proximal rotation knob may be formed of pliable resilient flexible polymeric materials including Versaflex TPE alloys made by GLS Corporation for example. The proximal rotation knob may be formed of elastomeric materials thermoplastic rubber known as Santoprene other thermoplastic vulcanizates TPVs or elastomers for example. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

The electrosurgical system can be configured to supply energy such as electrical energy ultrasonic energy heat energy or any combination thereof to the tissue of a patient either independently or simultaneously as described for example in connection with for example. In one example embodiment the electrosurgical system includes a generator in electrical communication with the electrosurgical instrument . The generator is connected to electrosurgical instrument via a suitable transmission medium such as a cable . In one example embodiment the generator is coupled to a controller such as a control unit for example. In various embodiments the control unit may be formed integrally with the generator or may be provided as a separate circuit module or device electrically coupled to the generator shown in phantom as to illustrate this option . Although in the presently disclosed embodiment the generator is shown separate from the electrosurgical instrument in one example embodiment the generator and or the control unit may be formed integrally with the electrosurgical instrument to form a unitary electrosurgical system where a battery located within the electrosurgical instrument is the energy source and a circuit coupled to the battery produces the suitable electrical energy ultrasonic energy or heat energy. One such example is described herein below in connection with .

The generator may comprise an input device located on a front panel of the generator console. The input device may comprise any suitable device that generates signals suitable for programming the operation of the generator such as a keyboard or input port for example. In one example embodiment various electrodes in the first jaw A and the second jaw B may be coupled to the generator . The cable may comprise multiple electrical conductors for the application of electrical energy to positive and negative electrodes of the electrosurgical instrument . The control unit may be used to activate the generator which may serve as an electrical source. In various embodiments the generator may comprise an RF source an ultrasonic source a direct current source and or any other suitable type of electrical energy source for example which may be activated independently or simultaneously

In various embodiments the electrosurgical system may comprise at least one supply conductor and at least one return conductor wherein current can be supplied to electrosurgical instrument via the supply conductor and wherein the current can flow back to the generator via the return conductor . In various embodiments the supply conductor and the return conductor may comprise insulated wires and or any other suitable type of conductor. In certain embodiments as described below the supply conductor and the return conductor may be contained within and or may comprise the cable extending between or at least partially between the generator and the end effector of the electrosurgical instrument . In any event the generator can be configured to apply a sufficient voltage differential between the supply conductor and the return conductor such that sufficient current can be supplied to the end effector .

The end effector may be adapted for capturing and transecting tissue and for the contemporaneously welding the captured tissue with controlled application of energy e.g. RF energy . The first jaw A and the second jaw B may close to thereby capture or engage tissue about a longitudinal axis T defined by the axially moveable member . The first jaw A and second jaw B may also apply compression to the tissue. In some embodiments the elongated shaft along with first jaw A and second jaw B can be rotated a full 360 degrees as shown by arrow see relative to handle . For example a rotation knob may be rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the shaft and may be coupled to the shaft such that rotation of the knob causes corresponding rotation of the shaft . The first jaw A and the second jaw B can remain openable and or closeable while rotated.

The lever arm of the handle may be adapted to actuate the axially moveable member which may also function as a jaw closing mechanism. For example the axially moveable member may be urged distally as the lever arm is pulled proximally along the path via the shuttle as shown in and discussed above. is a perspective view of one example embodiment of the axially moveable member of the surgical instrument . The axially moveable member may comprise one or several pieces but in any event may be movable or translatable with respect to the elongated shaft and or the jaws A B. Also in at least one example embodiment the axially moveable member may be made of 17 4 precipitation hardened stainless steel. The distal end of axially moveable member may comprise a flanged I beam configured to slide within the channels A and B in jaws A and B. The axially moveable member may slide within the channels A B to open and close the first jaw A and the second jaw B. The distal end of the axially moveable member may also comprise an upper flange or c shaped portion A and a lower flange or c shaped portion B. The flanges A and B respectively define inner cam surfaces A and B for engaging outward facing surfaces of the first jaw A and the second jaw B. The opening closing of jaws A and B can apply very high compressive forces on tissue using cam mechanisms which may include movable I beam axially moveable member and the outward facing surfaces A B of jaws A B.

More specifically referring now to collectively the inner cam surfaces A and B of the distal end of axially moveable member may be adapted to slidably engage the first outward facing surface A and the second outward facing surface B of the first jaw A and the second jaw B respectively. The channel A within first jaw A and the channel B within the second jaw B may be sized and configured to accommodate the movement of the axially moveable member which may comprise a tissue cutting element for example comprising a sharp distal edge. for example shows the distal end of the axially moveable member advanced at least partially through channels A and B . The advancement of the axially moveable member may close the end effector from the open configuration shown in . In the closed position shown by the upper first jaw A and lower second jaw B define a gap or dimension D between the first energy delivery surface A and second energy delivery surface B of first jaw A and second jaw B respectively. In various embodiments dimension D can equal from about 0.0005 to about 0.040 for example and in some embodiments between about 0.001 to about 0.010 for example. Also the edges of the first energy delivery surface A and the second energy delivery surface B may be rounded to prevent the dissection of tissue.

The first energy delivery surface A and the second energy delivery surface B may each be in electrical communication with the generator . The first energy delivery surface A and the second energy delivery surface B may be configured to contact tissue and deliver electrosurgical energy to captured tissue which are adapted to seal or weld the tissue. The control unit regulates the electrical energy delivered by electrical generator which in turn delivers electrosurgical energy to the first energy delivery surface A and the second energy delivery surface B. The energy delivery may be initiated by an activation button operably engaged with the lever arm and in electrical communication with the generator via cable . In one example embodiment the electrosurgical instrument may be energized by the generator by way of a foot switch . When actuated the foot switch triggers the generator to deliver electrical energy to the end effector for example. The control unit may regulate the power generated by the generator during activation. Although the foot switch may be suitable in many circumstances other suitable types of switches can be used.

As mentioned above the electrosurgical energy delivered by electrical generator and regulated or otherwise controlled by the control unit may comprise radio frequency RF energy or other suitable forms of electrical energy. Further the opposing first and second energy delivery surfaces A and B may carry variable resistive positive temperature coefficient PTC bodies that are in electrical communication with the generator and the control unit . Additional details regarding electrosurgical end effectors jaw closing mechanisms and electrosurgical energy delivery surfaces are described in the following U.S. patents and published patent applications U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 087 054 7 083 619 7 070 597 7 041 102 7 011 657 6 929 644 6 926 716 6 913 579 6 905 497 6 802 843 6 770 072 6 656 177 6 533 784 and 6 500 312 and U.S. Pat. App. Pub. Nos. 2010 0036370 and 2009 0076506 all of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference and made a part of this specification.

In one example embodiment the generator may be implemented as an electrosurgery unit ESU capable of supplying power sufficient to perform bipolar electrosurgery using radio frequency RF energy. In one example embodiment the ESU can be a bipolar ERBE ICC 350 sold by ERBE USA Inc. of Marietta Ga. In some embodiments such as for bipolar electrosurgery applications a surgical instrument having an active electrode and a return electrode can be utilized wherein the active electrode and the return electrode can be positioned against adjacent to and or in electrical communication with the tissue to be treated such that current can flow from the active electrode through the positive temperature coefficient PTC bodies and to the return electrode through the tissue. Thus in various embodiments the electrosurgical system may comprise a supply path and a return path wherein the captured tissue being treated completes or closes the circuit. In one example embodiment the generator may be a monopolar RF ESU and the electrosurgical instrument may comprise a monopolar end effector in which one or more active electrodes are integrated. For such a system the generator may require a return pad in intimate contact with the patient at a location remote from the operative site and or other suitable return path. The return pad may be connected via a cable to the generator . In other embodiments the operator may provide subtherapeutic RF energy levels for purposes of evaluating tissue conditions and providing feedback in the electrosurgical system . Such feedback may be employed to control the therapeutic RF energy output of the electrosurgical instrument .

During operation of electrosurgical instrument the user generally grasps tissue supplies energy to the captured tissue to form a weld or a seal e.g. by actuating button and or pedal and then drives a tissue cutting element at the distal end of the axially moveable member through the captured tissue. According to various embodiments the translation of the axial movement of the axially moveable member may be paced or otherwise controlled to aid in driving the axially moveable member at a suitable rate of travel. By controlling the rate of the travel the likelihood that the captured tissue has been properly and functionally sealed prior to transection with the cutting element is increased.

In one example embodiment various electrodes in the end effector including jaws A B thereof may be coupled to the generator circuit . The control circuit may be used to activate the generator which may serve as an electrical source. In various embodiments the generator may comprise an RF source an ultrasonic source a direct current source and or any other suitable type of electrical energy source for example. In one example embodiment a button may be provided to activate the generator circuit to provide energy to the end effectors .

In one example embodiment the cordless electrosurgical instrument comprises a battery . The battery provides electrical energy to the generator circuit . The battery may be any battery suitable for driving the generator circuit at the desired energy levels. In one example embodiment the battery is a 100 mAh triple cell Lithium Ion Polymer battery. The battery may be fully charged prior to use in a surgical procedure and may hold a voltage of about 12.6V. The battery may have two fuses fitted to the cordless electrosurgical instrument arranged in line with each battery terminal. In one example embodiment a charging port is provided to connect the battery to a DC current source not shown .

The generator circuit may be configured in any suitable manner. In some embodiments the generator circuit comprises an RF drive and control circuit . illustrates an RF drive and control circuit according to one embodiment. is a part schematic part block diagram illustrating the RF drive and control circuitry used in this embodiment to generate and control the RF electrical energy supplied to the end effector . As will be explained in more detail below in this embodiment the drive circuitry is a resonant mode RF amplifier comprising a parallel resonant network on the RF amplifier output and the control circuitry operates to control the operating frequency of the drive signal so that it is maintained at the resonant frequency of the drive circuit which in turn controls the amount of power supplied to the end effector . The way that this is achieved will become apparent from the following description.

As shown in the RF drive and control circuit comprises the above described battery are arranged to supply in this example about 0V and about 12V rails. An input capacitor C is connected between the 0V and the 12V for providing a low source impedance. A pair of FET switches and both of which are N channel in this embodiment to reduce power losses is connected in series between the 0V rail and the 12V rail. FET gate drive circuitry is provided that generates two drive signals one for driving each of the two FETs . The FET gate drive circuitry generates drive signals that causes the upper FET to be on when the lower FET is off and vice versa. This causes the node to be alternately connected to the 12V rail when the FET is switched on and the 0V rail when the FET is switched on . also shows the internal parasitic diodes and of the corresponding FETs which conduct during any periods that the FETs are open.

As shown in the node is connected to an inductor inductor resonant circuit formed by inductor L and inductor L. The FET gate driving circuitry is arranged to generate drive signals at a drive frequency f that opens and crosses the FET switches at the resonant frequency of the parallel resonant circuit . As a result of the resonant characteristic of the resonant circuit the square wave voltage at node will cause a substantially sinusoidal current at the drive frequency f to flow within the resonant circuit . As illustrated in the inductor L is the primary of a transformer the secondary of which is formed by inductor L. The inductor L of the transformer secondary is connected to an inductor capacitor capacitor parallel resonant circuit formed by inductor L capacitor C and capacitor C. The transformer up converts the drive voltage V across the inductor L to the voltage that is applied to the output parallel resonant circuit . The load voltage V is output by the parallel resonant circuit and is applied to the load represented by the load resistance R in corresponding to the impedance of the forceps jaws and any tissue or vessel gripped by the end effector . As shown in a pair of DC blocking capacitors C and is provided to prevent any DC signal being applied to the load .

In one embodiment the transformer may be implemented with a Core Diameter mm Wire Diameter mm and Gap between secondary windings in accordance with the following specifications 

In this embodiment the amount of electrical power supplied to the end effector is controlled by varying the frequency of the switching signals used to switch the FETs . This works because the resonant circuit acts as a frequency dependent loss less attenuator. The closer the drive signal is to the resonant frequency of the resonant circuit the less the drive signal is attenuated. Similarly as the frequency of the drive signal is moved away from the resonant frequency of the circuit the more the drive signal is attenuated and so the power supplied to the load reduces. In this embodiment the frequency of the switching signals generated by the FET gate drive circuitry is controlled by a controller based on a desired power to be delivered to the load and measurements of the load voltage V and of the load current I obtained by conventional voltage sensing circuitry and current sensing circuitry . The way that the controller operates will be described in more detail below.

In one embodiment the voltage sensing circuitry and the current sensing circuitry may be implemented with high bandwidth high speed rail to rail amplifiers e.g. LMH6643 by National Semiconductor . Such amplifiers however consume a relatively high current when they are operational. Accordingly a power save circuit may be provided to reduce the supply voltage of the amplifiers when they are not being used in the voltage sensing circuitry and the current sensing circuitry . In one embodiment a step down regulator e.g. LT3502 by Linear Technologies may be employed by the power save circuit to reduce the supply voltage of the rail to rail amplifiers and thus extend the life of the battery .

The frequency control module uses the values obtained from the calculation module and the power set point P obtained from the medical device control module and predefined system limits to be explained below to determine whether or not to increase or decrease the applied frequency. The result of this decision is then passed to a square wave generation module which in this embodiment increments or decrements the frequency of a square wave signal that it generates by 1 kHz depending on the received decision. As those skilled in the art will appreciate in an alternative embodiment the frequency control module may determine not only whether to increase or decrease the frequency but also the amount of frequency change required. In this case the square wave generation module would generate the corresponding square wave signal with the desired frequency shift. In this embodiment the square wave signal generated by the square wave generation module is output to the FET gate drive circuitry which amplifies the signal and then applies it to the FET . The FET gate drive circuitry also inverts the signal applied to the FET and applies the inverted signal to the FET .

The electrosurgical instrument may comprise additional features as discussed with respect to electrosurgical system . Those skilled in the art will recognize that electrosurgical instrument may include a rotation knob an elongated shaft and an end effector . These elements function in a substantially similar manner to that discussed above with respect to the electrosurgical system . In one example embodiment the cordless electrosurgical instrument may include visual indicators . The visual indicators may provide a visual indication signal to an operator. In one example embodiment the visual indication signal may alert an operator that the device is on or that the device is applying energy to the end effector. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the visual indicators may be configured to provide information on multiple states of the device.

Over the years a variety of minimally invasive robotic or telesurgical systems have been developed to increase surgical dexterity as well as to permit a surgeon to operate on a patient in an intuitive manner. Robotic surgical systems can be used with many different types of surgical instruments including for example ultrasonic or electrosurgical instruments as described herein. Example robotic systems include those manufactured by Intuitive Surgical Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. U.S.A. Such systems as well as robotic systems from other manufacturers are disclosed in the following U.S. Patents which are each herein incorporated by reference in their respective entirety U.S. Pat. No. 5 792 135 entitled Articulated Surgical Instrument For Performing Minimally Invasive Surgery With Enhanced Dexterity and Sensitivity U.S. Pat. No. 6 231 565 entitled Robotic Arm DLUs For Performing Surgical Tasks U.S. Pat. No. 6 783 524 entitled Robotic Surgical Tool With Ultrasound Cauterizing and Cutting Instrument U.S. Pat. No. 6 364 888 entitled Alignment of Master and Slave In a Minimally Invasive Surgical Apparatus U.S. Pat. No. 7 524 320 entitled Mechanical Actuator Interface System For Robotic Surgical Tools U.S. Pat. No. 7 691 098 entitled Platform Link Wrist Mechanism U.S. Pat. No. 7 806 891 entitled Repositioning and Reorientation of Master Slave Relationship in Minimally Invasive Telesurgery and U.S. Pat. No. 7 824 401 entitled Surgical Tool With Writed Monopolar Electrosurgical End Effectors . Many of such systems however have in the past been unable to generate the magnitude of forces required to effectively cut and fasten tissue.

Interface also includes an adaptor portion that is configured to mountingly engage the mounting plate as will be further discussed below. The adaptor portion may include an array of electrical connecting pins which may be coupled to a memory structure by a circuit board within the instrument mounting portion . While interface is described herein with reference to mechanical electrical and magnetic coupling elements it should be understood that a wide variety of telemetry modalities might be used including infrared inductive coupling or the like.

Openings on the instrument side and openings on the holder side of rotatable bodies are configured to accurately align the driven elements of the instrument mounting portion with the drive elements of the instrument holder . As described above regarding inner and outer pins of driven elements the openings are at differing distances from the axis of rotation on their respective rotatable bodies so as to ensure that the alignment is not 33 degrees from its intended position. Additionally each of the openings may be slightly radially elongated so as to fittingly receive the pins in the circumferential orientation. This allows the pins to slide radially within the openings and accommodate some axial misalignment between the instrument and instrument holder while minimizing any angular misalignment and backlash between the drive and driven elements. Openings on the instrument side may be offset by about 90 degrees from the openings shown in broken lines on the holder side as can be seen most clearly in .

Various embodiments may further include an array of electrical connector pins located on holder side of adaptor and the instrument side of the adaptor may include slots for receiving a pin array not shown from the instrument mounting portion . In addition to transmitting electrical signals between the surgical instrument and the instrument holder at least some of these electrical connections may be coupled to an adaptor memory device by a circuit board of the adaptor .

A detachable latch arrangement may be employed to releasably affix the adaptor to the instrument holder . As used herein the term instrument drive assembly when used in the context of the robotic system at least encompasses various embodiments of the adapter and instrument holder and which has been generally designated as in . For example as can be seen in the instrument holder may include a first latch pin arrangement that is sized to be received in corresponding clevis slots provided in the adaptor . In addition the instrument holder may further have second latch pins that are sized to be retained in corresponding latch clevises in the adaptor . See . In at least one form a latch assembly is movably supported on the adapter and is biasable between a first latched position wherein the latch pins are retained within their respective latch clevis and an unlatched position wherein the second latch pins may be into or removed from the latch clevises . A spring or springs not shown are employed to bias the latch assembly into the latched position. A lip on the instrument side of adaptor may slidably receive laterally extending tabs of instrument mounting housing .

As described the driven elements may be aligned with the drive elements of the instrument holder such that rotational motion of the drive elements causes corresponding rotational motion of the driven elements . The rotation of the drive elements and driven elements may be electronically controlled for example via the robotic arm in response to instructions received from the clinician via a controller . The instrument mounting portion may translate rotation of the driven elements into motion of the surgical instrument .

In one example embodiment the instrument mounting portion comprises a mechanism for translating rotation of the various driven elements into rotation of the shaft differential translation of members along the axis of the shaft e.g. for articulation and reciprocating translation of one or more members along the axis of the shaft e.g. for extending and retracting tissue cutting elements such as overtubes and or other components . In one example embodiment the rotatable bodies e.g. rotatable spools are coupled to the driven elements . The rotatable bodies may be formed integrally with the driven elements . In some embodiments the rotatable bodies may be formed separately from the driven elements provided that the rotatable bodies and the driven elements are fixedly coupled such that driving the driven elements causes rotation of the rotatable bodies . Each of the rotatable bodies is coupled to a gear train or gear mechanism to provide shaft articulation and rotation and clamp jaw open close and knife actuation.

In one example embodiment the instrument mounting portion comprises a mechanism for causing differential translation of two or more members along the axis of the shaft . In the example provided in this motion is used to manipulate articulation joint . In the illustrated embodiment for example the instrument mounting portion comprises a rack and pinion gearing mechanism to provide the differential translation and thus the shaft articulation functionality. In one example embodiment the rack and pinion gearing mechanism comprises a first pinion gear coupled to a rotatable body such that rotation of the corresponding driven element causes the first pinion gear to rotate. A bearing is coupled to the rotatable body and is provided between the driven element and the first pinion gear . The first pinion gear is meshed to a first rack gear to convert the rotational motion of the first pinion gear into linear motion of the first rack gear to control the articulation of the articulation section of the shaft assembly in a left direction L. The first rack gear is attached to a first articulation band such that linear motion of the first rack gear in a distal direction causes the articulation section of the shaft assembly to articulate in the left direction L. A second pinion gear is coupled to another rotatable body such that rotation of the corresponding driven element causes the second pinion gear to rotate. A bearing is coupled to the rotatable body and is provided between the driven element and the second pinion gear . The second pinion gear is meshed to a second rack gear to convert the rotational motion of the second pinion gear into linear motion of the second rack gear to control the articulation of the articulation section in a right direction R. The second rack gear is attached to a second articulation band such that linear motion of the second rack gear in a distal direction causes the articulation section of the shaft assembly to articulate in the right direction R. Additional bearings may be provided between the rotatable bodies and the corresponding gears. Any suitable bearings may be provided to support and stabilize the mounting and reduce rotary friction of shaft and gears for example.

In one example embodiment the instrument mounting portion further comprises a mechanism for translating rotation of the driven elements into rotational motion about the axis of the shaft . For example the rotational motion may be rotation of the shaft itself. In the illustrated embodiment a first spiral worm gear coupled to a rotatable body and a second spiral worm gear coupled to the shaft assembly . A bearing is coupled to a rotatable body and is provided between a driven element and the first spiral worm gear . The first spiral worm gear is meshed to the second spiral worm gear which may be coupled to the shaft assembly and or to another component of the instrument for which longitudinal rotation is desired. Rotation may be caused in a clockwise CW and counter clockwise CCW direction based on the rotational direction of the first and second spiral worm gears . Accordingly rotation of the first spiral worm gear about a first axis is converted to rotation of the second spiral worm gear about a second axis which is orthogonal to the first axis. As shown in for example a CW rotation of the second spiral worm gear results in a CW rotation of the shaft assembly in the direction indicated by CW. A CCW rotation of the second spiral worm gear results in a CCW rotation of the shaft assembly in the direction indicated by CCW. Additional bearings may be provided between the rotatable bodies and the corresponding gears. Any suitable bearings may be provided to support and stabilize the mounting and reduce rotary friction of shaft and gears for example.

In one example embodiment the instrument mounting portion comprises a mechanism for generating reciprocating translation of one or more members along the axis of the shaft . Such translation may be used for example to drive a tissue cutting element such as drive an overtube for closure and or articulation of the end effector etc. In the illustrated embodiment for example a rack and pinion gearing mechanism may provide the reciprocating translation. A first gear is coupled to a rotatable body such that rotation of the corresponding driven element causes the first gear to rotate in a first direction. A second gear is free to rotate about a post formed in the instrument mounting plate . The first gear is meshed to the second gear such that the second gear rotates in a direction that is opposite of the first gear . In one example embodiment the second gear is a pinion gear meshed to a rack gear which moves in a liner direction. The rack gear is coupled to a translating block which may translate distally and proximally with the rack gear . The translation block may be coupled to any suitable component of the shaft assembly and or the end effector so as to provide reciprocating longitudinal motion. For example the translation block may be mechanically coupled to the tissue cutting element of the RF surgical device . In some embodiments the translation block may be coupled to an overtube or other component of the end effector or shaft .

Referring now to the alternate example mechanism for generating reciprocating translation of one or more members along the axis of the shaft the instrument mounting portion comprises a rack and pinion gearing mechanism to provide reciprocating translation along the axis of the shaft e.g. translation of a tissue cutting element of the RF surgical device . In one example embodiment a third pinion gear is coupled to a rotatable body such that rotation of the corresponding driven element causes the third pinion gear to rotate in a first direction. The third pinion gear is meshed to a rack gear which moves in a linear direction. The rack gear is coupled to a translating block . The translating block may be coupled to a component of the device such as for example the tissue cutting element of the RF surgical device and or an overtube or other component which is desired to be translated longitudinally.

In various embodiments the instrument mounting portion may additionally comprise internal energy sources for driving electronics and provided desired ultrasonic and or RF frequency signals to surgical tools. illustrate one embodiment of a instrument mounting portion comprising internal power and energy sources. For example surgical instruments e.g. instruments mounted utilizing the instrument mounting portion need not be wired to an external generator or other power source. Instead the functionality of the various generators described herein may be implemented on board the mounting portion .

As illustrated in the instrument mounting portion may comprise a distal portion . The distal portion may comprise various mechanisms for coupling rotation of drive elements to end effectors of the various surgical instruments for example as described herein above. Proximal of the distal portion the instrument mounting portion comprises an internal direct current DC energy source and an internal drive and control circuit . In the illustrated embodiment the energy source comprises a first and second battery . In other respects the instrument mounting portion is similar to the various embodiments of the instrument mounting portion described herein above.

The control circuit may operate in a manner similar to that described above with respect to generators . For example when an ultrasonic instrument is utilized the control circuit may provide an ultrasonic drive signal in a manner similar to that described above with respect to generator . Also for example when an RF instrument or ultrasonic instrument capable of providing a therapeutic or non therapeutic RF signal is used the control circuit may provide an RF drive signal for example as described herein above with respect to the module of generator and or the generator . In some embodiments the control circuit may be configured in a manner similar to that of the control circuit described herein above with respect to .

The drive assembly controls several operations associated with the end effector . For example the end effector may comprise a clamp arm and a cutting element. The drive assembly may be configured to open and close the clamp arm articulate and rotate the shaft assembly and articulate and rotate the end effector either together or independently. A variety of shafts and end effector configurations have been described herein and will not be repeated for here for concise and clarity of disclosure. In one embodiment the end effector may comprise at least one electrode coupled to an electrosurgical energy source. Such embodiment also may comprise a cutting element such as a knife to dissect tissue after sealing the tissue by applying therapeutic RF energy to the tissue. In another embodiment the end effector may comprise at least one ultrasonic surgical blade to provide substantially simultaneous transection of tissue and homeostasis by coagulation. In other embodiments the end effector may comprise a clamp arm that works in conjunction with the ultrasonic blade to assist the transection and homeostasis process by engaging the target tissue between the blade and the clamp arm. In other embodiments the clamp arm may include a clamp pad to engage tissue between the blade and the clamp arm. The clamp pad may be made of any suitable material and in one embodiment is made of PTFE generally known under the trade designation TEFLON. In other embodiments the end effector may comprise at least one electrode and at least one ultrasonic blade.

In other embodiments of the surgical instrument comprising at least one electrode the at least one electrode may be coupled to an electrosurgical energy source. In addition the latter embodiment also may comprise a clamp arm and a clamp pad for clamping tissue and or applying pressure prior to sealing and dissecting the tissue. In one embodiment the electrosurgical generator may be located external to the surgical instrument as shown as described in connection with for example whereas in other embodiments the electrosurgical generator may be located within the surgical instrument as shown and described in connection with FIGS. A C for example.

In embodiments of the surgical instrument comprising at least one ultrasonic blade an ultrasonic generator module may be electrically coupled to piezoelectric elements of the ultrasonic transducer. The ultrasonic generator may be located external to the instrument mounting portion and may be electrically coupled to the piezoelectric elements via electrically conductive elements such as a cable chord wires as shown and described in connection with for example. In other embodiments the ultrasonic generator may be located within the instrument mounting portion and may be powered by a battery and suitable circuit to generate voltage and current drive signals suitable for driving the piezoelectric elements as shown and described in connection with for example.

In various embodiments the fluid management system comprises a fluid reservoir or container incorporated into the instrument mounting portion . The container contains a fluid agent to be dispensed at the treatment region. The fluid agent may be a liquid or a gas and may comprise an antiseptic solution collagen solution saline carbon dioxide CO nitrogen oxide NO and therapeutic agents for example. In other embodiments the container may include multiple containers that comprise fluid agents that can be mixed either in a separate chamber or separate container or as the fluid agents are dispensed to the treatment region.

In one embodiment the fluid management system may comprise a pump to dispense the fluid from the container to a fluidic channel in the shaft assembly . The fluidic channel is fluidically coupled to the fluid management system . The fluidic channel is fluidically coupled to another fluidic channel in the end effector . In one embodiment the fluid is pumped from the container to the fluidic channel in the shaft assembly and eventually to the fluidic channel in the end effector and is eventually dispensed at the treatment region from the end effector . Eventually the fluid is dispensed via gravity e.g. drops at the treatment region. In various embodiments the fluidic channels and others described hereinbelow may be a tube assembly cannula conduit duct pipe pipette hose lumen that is either separately provided or integrally formed within the shaft assembly and or the end effector . In one embodiment a peristaltic pump may be operatively coupled to the drive assembly of the instrument mounting portion using a ratchet mechanism. In another embodiment a source of pressurized gas in a cartridge may be incorporated in the instrument mounting portion as part of the fluid management system proximal to the fluid container. The pressurized gas cartridge may contain pressurized gas such as COor NO for example among other gases that are not irritating to the patient. The outlet ports of the container and the pressurized gas cartridge are fluidically coupled to a mixing element where the pressurized gas cartridge uses gas pressure to propel the fluid from the container and a pressure control element is used to control the fluid pressure. In this embodiment the fluid can be sprayed via a nozzle located at the distal end of the end effector . One or more fluids containing therapeutic agents can be mixed in this manner within the instrument mounting portion prior to being dispensed.

Each of the embodiments of surgical instruments described in connection with respective are adapted for use with a robotic surgical system. Each of the surgical instruments is adapted for use with various embodiments of robotic surgical systems disclosed in the present specification. For example in one embodiment each of the surgical instruments may be employed in the ultrasonic surgical instrument described in connection with and or may employed in the electrosurgical instrument described in connection with . Each of the surgical instruments also may be employed in combined ultrasonic electrosurgical instruments. These instruments are described more particularly hereinbelow.

In the embodiment illustrated in the fluid management system also comprises a peristaltic pump . The peristaltic pump or roller pump is a type of positive displacement pump used for pumping a variety of fluids comprising two rotors although in other embodiments a linear peristaltic pump may be employed without imitation. In one embodiment a first roller and a rigid surface compress the flexible fluidic channel therebetween at at least at one point during a rotation of the first roller . In one embodiment a first roller and a second roller are provided to compress the flexible fluidic channel therebetween at at least at one point during a rotation of the first and second rollers . The rollers rotate such that if first roller rotates in the direction indicated by arrow A the second roller rotates in the direction indicated by arrow B to pump the fluid in the direction indicated by arrow C. In other embodiments a single roller or more than two rollers may be employed. The rollers may be operatively coupled to one or more rotatable spools such as rotatable bodies or are coupled to the driven elements located within the instrument mounting portion . The fluid is contained within the flexible fluidic channel fitted inside the housing . At least one or both rollers may rotate in an eccentric pattern to compress the flexible fluidic channel at one or more points in their eccentric paths much like a cam used to transform circular motion to linear motion. The rotor comprising one or more of the rollers shoes or wipers compress the flexible fluidic channel in order to pump the fluid . As the rollers of the rotor turn the portion of the flexible fluidic channel between the rollers under compression is pinched closed or occludes thus forcing the fluid to be pumped to move through the tube in the direction indicated by arrow C. Additionally as the flexible fluidic channel opens to its natural state after the passing of the cam restitution or resilience fluid flow is induced to the pump . This process is called peristalsis and is used in many biological systems such as the gastrointestinal tract. The embodiments are not limited in this context. As previously discussed the fluidic channel is fluidically coupled to a fluidic channel located in the end effector to dispense a fluid at the treatment region.

In embodiment where the surgical instrument comprising an ultrasonic blade in the end effector an ultrasonic transducer may be mounted to or within the instrument mounting portion to drive an ultrasonic waveguide and thereby drive an ultrasonic blade coupled to the waveguide. Thus the ultrasonic blade in the end effector is acoustically coupled to the transducer via the waveguide extending through the shaft assembly . The transducer is operationally equivalent to the transducer shown and described in connection with for example and is adapted to couple to the instrument mounting portion . Although not shown the ultrasonic transducer is electrically coupled to an ultrasonic generator module similar to the ultrasonic generator via a cable as shown and described in connection with for example.

In the embodiment illustrated in the fluid management system also comprises a peristaltic pump . The peristaltic pump is similar to the peristaltic pump shown in . The peristaltic pump is a roller pump type of positive displacement pump used for pumping a variety of fluids comprising two rotors although in other embodiments a linear peristaltic pump may be employed without imitation. In one embodiment the rotors comprise a first roller and a second roller where if first roller rotates in the direction indicated by arrow A the second roller rotates in the direction indicated by arrow B to pump the fluid in the direction indicated by arrow C. In other embodiments a single roller or more than two rollers may be employed. The rollers may be operatively coupled to one or more rotatable spools such as rotatable bodies or are coupled to the driven elements located within the instrument mounting portion . The fluid is contained within the flexible fluidic channel fitted inside the housing . At least one or both rollers rotate in an eccentric pattern and compress the flexible tubing at one or more points in their eccentric paths much like a cam used to transform circular motion to linear motion. The rotor comprising one or more of the rollers shoes or wipers compress the flexible tubes in order to pump the fluid . As the rollers of the rotors turn the portions of the flexible tubes between the rollers under compression are pinched closed or occludes thus forcing the fluid to be pumped to move through the flexible fluidic channel in the direction indicated by arrow C. Additionally as the tube opens to its natural state after the passing of the cam restitution or resilience fluid flow is induced to the pump . This process is called peristalsis and is used in many biological systems such as the gastrointestinal tract. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In the embodiment illustrated in the fluid management system also comprises a pressure controller to control the pressure in the flexible fluidic channel and thus regulate the flow of fluid therein. The pressure controller comprises a roller which rotates eccentrically to constrict the flexible fluid channel against a wall of a fixed rigid element . Thus as the roller rotates in the direction indicated by arrow B over one revolution the roller applies no constriction at one point and full constriction at another point in the rotation and a variable amount of constriction therebetween to control the amount of pressure in the flexible fluidic channel . As the pressure in the fluidic channel is varied the amount of pressure applied by the pressure source varies and thereby varies the amount of fluid flow in the direction indicated by arrow C. As previously discussed the pressure source may be a pressurized COor NO canister but can be any suitable pressure source. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The fluid management system may be any of the fluid management systems described in connection with respective . A fluid agent is coupled to the fluidic channel in the shaft assembly and to a fluidic channel in the end effector . In various embodiments the fluid agent may be a liquid or a gas and may comprise an antiseptic solution collagen solution saline CO NO and any suitable therapeutic agents for example.

The electrosurgical instrument comprises an electrical circuit coupled to the robot system via the interface . The electrical circuit is also coupled to an electrosurgical generator . The generator is coupled to the one or more electrode elements in the end effector via one or more electrically conducting elements to apply therapeutic electrosurgical energy to the electrode elements. In one embodiment the electrosurgical generator is an RF energy source suitable for applying therapeutic RF to the end effector . In addition to the electrode elements the end effector may comprise a clamp arm to engage tissue between the electrode elements and the clamp arm and seal the tissue with the RF energy. In various embodiments the RF generator may be configured to deliver therapeutic and or subtherapeutic RF energy levels. Therapeutic RF energy levels may be employed to seal tissue whereas subtherapeutic RF energy levels may be employed for the purpose of providing feedback to the electric circuit via a conducting element or in some embodiments wirelessly to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the feedback. Accordingly one or more sensors may be provided in the end effector to provide feedback to the electrical circuit . One type of feedback is tissue impedance. Accordingly the one or more sensors may be configured to measure tissue impedance and provide feedback to the electric circuit to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the tissue impedance. The electrical circuit may comprise voltage and current measuring circuits to determine the impedance presented between the electrodes. In one embodiment the generator is functionally equivalent to RF drive and control circuit and the controller described herein in connection with B C for example. In addition an energy source such as a battery for example may be located within the electrosurgical instrument . In another embodiment the energy source may be an external power supply or an external battery for example.

The fluid management system may be any of the fluid management systems described in connection with respective . A fluid agent is coupled to a fluidic channel in the shaft assembly and to a fluidic channel in the end effector . In various embodiments the fluid agent may be a liquid or a gas and may comprise an antiseptic solution collagen solution saline CO NO and any suitable therapeutic agents for example.

The ultrasonic surgical instrument comprises an electrical circuit coupled to the robot system via the interface . The electrical circuit is also coupled to an ultrasonic generator . The generator is electrically coupled to an ultrasonic transducer which is acoustically coupled to the ultrasonic blade of the end effector through the shaft assembly . In one embodiment the end effector comprises a clamp arm to engage tissue between the ultrasonic blade and the clamp arm and seal the tissue using ultrasonic energy. In various embodiments the ultrasonic generator may be configured to deliver therapeutic and or subtherapeutic ultrasonic energy levels. Therapeutic ultrasonic energy levels may be employed to seal tissue whereas subtherapeutic ultrasonic energy levels may be employed for the purpose of providing feedback to the electric circuit via a conducting element or in some embodiments wirelessly to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the feedback. Accordingly one or more sensors may be provided in the end effector to provide feedback to the electrical circuit . As previously discussed one type of feedback is tissue impedance. Accordingly the one or more sensors may be configured to measure tissue impedance and provide feedback to the electric circuit to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the tissue impedance. The electrical circuit may comprise voltage and current measuring circuits to determine the impedance presented between the electrodes. In one embodiment the generator is functionally equivalent to the ultrasonic generator described herein in connection with for example. In addition an energy source such as a battery for example may be located within the instrument mounting portion . In another embodiment the energy source may be an external power supply or an external battery for example.

The fluid management system may be any of the fluid management systems described in connection with respective . A fluid agent is coupled to a fluidic channel in the shaft assembly and to a fluidic channel in the end effector . In various embodiments the fluid agent may be a liquid or a gas and may comprise an antiseptic solution collagen solution saline CO NO and any suitable therapeutic agents for example.

In one embodiment the combined ultrasonic electrosurgical surgical instrument includes a robotically controlled electrosurgical portion as described in connection with . The electrosurgical portion comprises an electrosurgical generator is coupled to the one or more electrode elements in the end effector via one or more electrically conducting elements to apply therapeutic and or subtherapeutic electrosurgical energy to the electrode elements. In one embodiment the electrosurgical generator is an RF energy source suitable for applying therapeutic RF to the end effector. In addition to the electrode elements the end effector may comprise a clamp arm to engage tissue between the electrode elements and the clamp arm and seal the tissue with the RF energy. In various embodiments the RF generator may be configured to deliver therapeutic and or subtherapeutic RF energy levels. Therapeutic RF energy levels may be employed to seal tissue whereas subtherapeutic RF energy levels may be employed applied for the purpose of providing feedback to the electric circuit via a conducting element or in some embodiments wirelessly to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the feedback. Accordingly one or more sensors may be provided in the end effector to provide feedback to the electrical circuit . One type of feedback is tissue impedance.

Accordingly the one or more sensors may be configured to measure tissue impedance and provide feedback to the electric circuit to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the tissue impedance. The electrical circuit may comprise voltage and current measuring circuits to determine the impedance presented between the electrodes. In one embodiment the generator is functionally equivalent to RF drive and control circuit and the controller described herein in connection with B C for example. In addition an energy source such as a battery for example may be located within the instrument mounting portion . In another embodiment the energy source may be an external power supply or an external battery for example.

In one embodiment the combined ultrasonic electrosurgical surgical instrument includes a robotically controlled ultrasonic portion as described in . In one embodiment the ultrasonic portion comprises a surgical end effector comprising an ultrasonic blade and a clamp arm which may be coupled to the shaft assembly that in some embodiments may comprise an articulation joint. In one embodiment the end effector may comprise a clamp arm with a clamp pad for example. The electrical circuit is also coupled to an ultrasonic generator . The ultrasonic generator is electrically coupled to an ultrasonic transducer which is acoustically coupled to the ultrasonic blade of the end effector through the shaft assembly . In one embodiment the end effector comprises a clamp arm to engage tissue between the ultrasonic blade and the clamp arm and seal the tissue using ultrasonic energy. In various embodiments the ultrasonic generator may be configured to deliver therapeutic and or subtherapeutic ultrasonic energy levels. Therapeutic ultrasonic energy levels may be employed to seal tissue whereas subtherapeutic ultrasonic energy levels may be employed for the purpose of providing feedback to the electric circuit via a conducting element or in some embodiments wirelessly to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the feedback. Accordingly one or more sensors may be provided in the end effector to provide feedback to the electrical circuit . As previously discussed one type of feedback is tissue impedance. Accordingly the one or more sensors may be configured to measure tissue impedance and provide feedback to the electric circuit to adjust the power level output of the generator in accordance with the tissue impedance. The electrical circuit may comprise voltage and current measuring circuits to determine the impedance presented between the electrodes. In one embodiment the generator is functionally equivalent to the ultrasonic generator described herein in connection with for example. In addition an energy source such as a battery for example may be located within the combined ultrasonic electrosurgical instrument . In another embodiment the energy source may be an external power supply or an external battery for example.

In various embodiments the electrosurgical generator powers the at least one electrode element in the end effector simultaneously with the ultrasonic generator powering the ultrasonic blade to achieve tissue sealing and transection.

The fluid management system may be any of the fluid management systems described in connection with respective . A fluid agent is coupled to the fluidic channel in the shaft assembly and to a fluidic channel in the end effector . In various embodiments the fluid agent may be a liquid or a gas and may comprise an antiseptic solution collagen solution saline CO NO and any suitable therapeutic agents for example.

In one embodiment the fluid management system comprises a dispensing system that is controlled by a motor controlled by a processing unit e g akin to a motorized syringe for example as disclosed in United States Patent Application No. 2012 0088206 to Tanaka et al the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The dispensing system comprising a cylindrical housing for containing a fluid to be dispensed by a motor driven mechanism that longitudinally advances a plunger from a rear position to a forward position in the direction indicated by arrow A to push the fluid within the cylindrical housing through a fluidic channel which is ultimately dispensed through a port near or at the distal end of the end effector . The motor drive mechanism may comprise any necessary coupling or gear reduction as may be necessary for controlling the dispensation of the fluid .

In one application the fluid may comprise an adhesive that can be dispensed at the distal end of the end effector to assist or enhance tissue sealing. In one aspect the adhesive fluid may be a collagen adhesive although any suitable adhesive and or fluid may be dispensed without limitation to the particular embodiment disclosed in .

A processing unit located either at the instrument mounting portion or at the robot controller or arm cart side coupled to the interface may be employed to control the operation of the various fluid management systems described herein. The processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs applications programs and or modules to provide computing and processing operations of any of the surgical instruments described hereinbefore including the controlling the operation of the various fluid management systems described herein. A suitable processing unit may be responsible for performing various tasks and data communications operations such as transmitting and machine commands and data information over one or more wired or wireless communications channels. In various embodiments the processing unit may include a single processor architecture or it may include any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment the processing unit may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The processing unit may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor circuit or logic device circuit such as a as a general purpose processor and or a state machine. The processing unit also may be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

In one embodiment the processing unit may be coupled to a memory and or storage component s through a bus either at the instrument mounting portion or at the controller arm cart side. The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the processing unit to access the memory and or storage component s . Although the memory and or storage component s may be separate from the processing unit it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processing unit. Alternatively some portion or the entire memory and or storage component s may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. flash memory hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the processing unit.

The memory and or storage component s represent one or more computer readable media. The memory and or storage component s may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory and or storage component s may comprise volatile media e.g. random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media e.g. read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and the like . The memory and or storage component s may comprise fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive etc. as well as removable media e.g. a Flash memory drive a removable hard drive an optical disk etc. . Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

One or more I O devices allow a user to enter commands and information to the processing unit and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone a scanner and the like. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card etc. . The processing unit may be coupled to an alphanumeric keypad. The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. A display may be coupled to the processing unit. The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user. In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 76 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The processing unit may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the robotically controlled surgical instruments. For example the processing unit may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs. System programs generally may assist in the running of the robotically controlled surgical instruments and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Microsoft Windows OS Symbian OSTM Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS Android OS Apple OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Various embodiments may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as software program modules and or engines being executed by a computer. Generally software program modules and or engines include any software element arranged to perform particular operations or implement particular abstract data types. Software program modules and or engines can include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An implementation of the software program modules and or engines components and techniques may be stored on and or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. In this regard computer readable media can be any available medium or media useable to store information and accessible by a computing device. Some embodiments also may be practiced in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by one or more remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software program modules and or engines may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising functional components software engines and or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components software engines and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In other embodiments the functional components such as software engines and or modules may be implemented by hardware elements that may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth.

Examples of software engines and or modules may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a computer readable storage medium arranged to store logic instructions and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment a surgical instrument is provided. The surgical instrument comprises an ultrasonic surgical system comprising an ultrasonic transducer an ultrasonic waveguide acoustically coupled to the ultrasonic transducer and an end effector comprising an ultrasonic blade acoustically coupled to the ultrasonic waveguide an instrument mounting portion configured to mount to a robotic surgical system the instrument mounting portion comprising an interface to mechanically and electrically interface to the surgical instrument adapted for use with the robotic surgical system and a fluid management system contained within the instrument mounting portion the fluid management system comprising a first container to contain a first fluid agent to be dispensed.

In one embodiment a surgical instrument is provided. The surgical instrument comprises an electrosurgical end effector comprising at least one electrode an instrument mounting portion configured to mount to a robotic surgical system the instrument mounting portion comprising an interface to mechanically and electrically interface to the surgical instrument adapted for use with the robotic surgical system and a fluid management system contained within the instrument mounting portion the fluid management system comprising a first container to contain a first fluid agent to be dispensed.

Applicant also owns the following patent applications that are each incorporated by reference in their respective entireties 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 271 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Flexible Drive Member now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005708 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 288 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Multi Functional Powered Surgical Device with External Dissection Features now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005718 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 295 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Rotary Actuatable Closure Arrangement for Surgical End Effector now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005676 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 326 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Surgical End Effectors Having Angled Tissue Contacting Surfaces now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005653 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 303 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Interchangeable End Effector Coupling Arrangement now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005661 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 393 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Surgical End Effector Jaw and Electrode Configurations now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005640 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 362 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Multi Axis Articulating and Rotating Surgical Tools now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005662 and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 536 417 filed on Jun. 28 2012 and entitled Electrode Connections for Rotary Driven Surgical Tools now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2014 0005680.

It will be appreciated that the terms proximal and distal are used throughout the specification with reference to a clinician manipulating one end of an instrument used to treat a patient. The term proximal refers to the portion of the instrument closest to the clinician and the term distal refers to the portion located furthest from the clinician. It will further be appreciated that for conciseness and clarity spatial terms such as vertical horizontal up or down may be used herein with respect to the illustrated embodiments. However surgical instruments may be used in many orientations and positions and these terms are not intended to be limiting or absolute.

Various embodiments of surgical instruments and robotic surgical systems are described herein. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the various embodiments described herein may be used with the described surgical instruments and robotic surgical systems. The descriptions are provided for example only and those skilled in the art will understand that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to only the devices disclosed herein but may be used with any compatible surgical instrument or robotic surgical system.

Reference throughout the specification to various embodiments some embodiments one example embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one example embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in various embodiments in some embodiments in one example embodiment or in an embodiment in places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics illustrated or described in connection with one example embodiment may be combined in whole or in part with features structures or characteristics of one or more other embodiments without limitation.

While various embodiments herein have been illustrated by description of several embodiments and while the illustrative embodiments have been described in considerable detail it is not the intention of the applicant to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications may readily appear to those skilled in the art. For example each of the disclosed embodiments may be employed in endoscopic procedures laparoscopic procedures as well as open procedures without limitations to its intended use.

It is to be understood that at least some of the figures and descriptions herein have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the disclosure while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these and other elements may be desirable. However because such elements are well known in the art and because they do not facilitate a better understanding of the disclosure a discussion of such elements is not provided herein.

While several embodiments have been described it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the disclosure. For example according to various embodiments a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. This application is therefore intended to cover all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated materials does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

