---

title: Methods, systems, and devices for managing medical images and records
abstract: The disclosure herein provides methods, systems, and devices for managing, transferring, modifying, converting and/or tracking medical files and/or medical system messages. In certain embodiments, the foregoing may generally be based on requesting medical files at a first medical facility, identifying the requested medical files at a second medical facility, initiating a secure network connection between the first and second medical facility, modifying a header portion of the medical files based on patient identification information created by the first medical facility, and other processing steps.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171344&OS=09171344&RS=09171344
owner: ONEMEDNET CORPORATION
number: 09171344
owner_city: Tucker
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120727
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 531 453 filed Sep. 6 2011 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR MANAGING MEDICAL IMAGES AND RECORDS and relates to U.S. Pat. No. 8 065 166 filed Sep. 12 2008 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR MANAGING MEDICAL IMAGES AND RECORDS U.S. Pat. No. 8 090 596 filed Jun. 1 2011 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR TRANSFERRING MEDICAL FILES FROM A SOURCE FACILITY TO A DESTINATION FACILITY U.S. Pat. No. 8 099 307 filed Jun. 1 2011 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR MANAGING MEDICAL FILES U.S. Pat. No. 8 108 228 filed May 31 2011 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR TRANSFERRING MEDICAL FILES U.S. Pat. No. 8 121 870 filed May 31 2011 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR VERIFYING AND APPROVING GOVERNMENT REQUIRED RELEASE FORMS U.S. Pat. No. 8 131 569 filed Jun. 1 2011 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR MODIFYING MEDICAL FILES U.S. Pat. No. 8 195 483 filed May 31 2011 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR CONTROLLING A PERMISSION BASED WORKFLOW PROCESS FOR TRANSFERRING MEDICAL FILES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 443 792 filed Apr. 10 2012 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR MANAGING TRANSFER OF MEDICAL FILES which all claim the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 983 873 filed Oct. 30 2007 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR TRANSFERRING MEDICAL IMAGES AND RECORDS. This application also relates to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 265 526 filed Apr. 23 2010 and titled METHODS SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR MANAGING MEDICAL IMAGES AND RECORDS which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 173 932 filed Apr. 29 2009 and titled SYSTEM AND APPARATUS FOR MANAGING MEDICAL IMAGES AND RECORDS. Each of the foregoing applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety specifically the systems methods and devices for transferring and managing medical images records and other related data.

Embodiments of the invention relate to the field of data management and in particular to methods systems and devices for managing medical images and records data.

With the development of new technologies medical images and or records are increasingly created and stored electronically. For example medical images are frequently created and stored in digital form versus on hard copy films. The same is generally true for various medical records. Despite such advancements hard copies of medical image and record files are nonetheless physically transferred by courier. Alternatively medical image and record files are copied onto an electronic storage medium such as a CDROM and the storage medium is physically transferred from one medical facility to another.

Advancements in technology make it possible to electronically transfer medical images records and or medical system messages between and or among medical professionals medical facilities medical systems and or healthcare systems using a permission based on demand transfer methodology as described herein. In certain embodiments the transfer of medical images records files medical system messages and or examinations involves the use of central authentication through a main server system a web based work flow management system and or a smart local client server system. The capability of electronically transferring medical image and record files not only enables the electronic transfer of such files but also enables off site viewing and reporting off site backup for redundancy and disaster recovery and or other tele diagnosis and telemedicine scenarios.

In one embodiment a computer implemented method for transferring one or more medical files from a source facility to a destination facility over a computer network comprises displaying by a user access point system a list of one or more medical files associated with a user wherein the one or more medical files are located at one or more medical facilities receiving by the user access point system a request from the user to transfer one or more medical files from a source facility to a destination facility scanning by the user access point system an authentication key wherein the authentication key is generated by a client server system of the one or more medical facilities given to the user after verifying identification of the user by the one or more medical facilities and transmitted electronically to a main server and transmitting electronically by the user access point system the scanned authentication key to the main server wherein the main server is configured to compare the scanned authentication key to the authentication key received from the client server system wherein the main server is further configured to initiate transfer of the one or more medical files from the source facility to the destination facility over the computer network based on the authentication and wherein the user access point system comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In other embodiments a computer implemented method for transferring one or more medical files from a source facility to a destination facility over a computer network comprises receiving by a main server a request from a user access point system to transfer one or more medical files from the source facility to the destination facility wherein the request comprises a first patient identifier and a second patient identifier wherein the first patient identifier is used by the source facility to identify the user and the second patient identifier is used by the destination facility to identify the user determining by the main server a user identifier associated with the user based on the received request wherein the user identifier is used by the main server to identify the user transmitting electronically by the main server a first electronic communication to the source facility to transfer the one or more medical files to the destination facility wherein the first electronic communication comprises the first patient identifier and the user identifier wherein the source facility is configured to replace the first patient identifier with the user identifier in the one or more medical files and transfer the one or more medical files to the destination facility based on the first electronic communication transmitting electronically by the main server a second electronic communication to the destination facility to receive the one or more medical files from the source facility wherein the second electronic communication comprises the second patient identifier and the user identifier wherein the destination facility is configured to receive the one or more medical files from the source facility and replace the user identifier with the second patient identifier in the one or more medical files based on the first electronic communication wherein the user access point system comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In other embodiments a computer implemented method for transferring one or more medical files from a source facility to a destination facility over a computer network comprises receiving by a user access point system a request from a user to transfer one or more medical files from the source facility to the destination facility generating by the user access point system an electronic communication based on the request and transmitting the electronic communication to a main server wherein the main server is configured to generate a unique code based on the request receiving by the user access point system the unique code from the main server displaying by the user access point system the unique code wherein scanning the unique code at the destination facility initiates generation of an authentication message to the main server wherein the main server is further configured to initiate the transfer of the one or more medical files from the source facility to the destination facility based on the authentication message wherein the user access point system comprises a computer processor and an electronic storage medium.

In one embodiment a method of electronically transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises receiving a request to transfer at least one medical file from the source medical facility wherein the request comprises at least patient information and a first encryption key for establishing a secure network connection establishing and or accessing a secure network connection between the source medical facility and the destination medical facility with coordinated encryption keys and or paired keys receiving the at least one medical file from a source database for medical files transferring the at least one medical file over the secure network connection to the destination medical facility terminating the secure network connection after said transferring. The method of electronically transferring medical files can also comprise modifying a header portion of the at least one medical file to remove a first patient identification and replace the first patient identification with a second patient identification wherein the first patient identification is assigned by the source medical facility and the second patient identification is assigned by the destination medical facility. The method of electronically transferring medical files can also comprise modifying the header portion of the at least one medical file to remove a first accession number and replace the first accession number with a second accession number wherein the first accession number is assigned by the source medical facility and the second accession number is assigned by the destination medical facility and storing the at least one medical file in a storage database for medical files. The method of electronically transferring medical files can also comprise inserting in the header portion a first accession number to substitute a second accession number existing in the header portion and storing the at least one medical file in a storage database for medical files. In certain embodiments the coordinated encryption keys and or paired keys can be the first encryption key and a second encryption key wherein the first encryption key is received by the destination facility and the second encryption key is received by the source medical facility.

In other embodiments the source database is a picture archiving and communication systems PACS and or an image server in the above method of electronically transferring medical files for example image files. In the above method of electronically transferring medical files the source database can also be a radiology information system wherein the sending further comprises creating an Observation Results Message OBX and or equivalent message or system communication or the like to transmit the medical file for example medical report files from the radiology information system. In the above method of electronically transferring medical files for example image files the storage database can be a PACS and or an image server. In the above method of electronically transferring medical files for example medical report files the storage database can be a radiology information system wherein the storing further comprises receiving an OBX and or equivalent message or system communication or the like to store the medical file in the radiology information system.

In other embodiments a method of electronically transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises receiving an instruction and or message and or other system communication to receive at least one medical file from the source medical facility wherein the instruction comprises at least patient information and a first encryption key for establishing a secure network connection establishing a secure network connection between the destination medical facility and the source medical facility with the first encryption key and a second encryption key for example the source medical facility having the second encryption key receiving the at least one medical file from the source medical facility over the secure network connection and terminating the secure network connection after said receiving. The method of transferring medical files can also comprise modifying a header portion of the at least one medical file to remove a first patient identification and replace the first patient identification with a second patient identification wherein the first patient identification is assigned by the source medical facility and the second patient identification is assigned by the destination medical facility. The method of transferring medical files can also comprise further modifying the header portion of the at least one medical file to remove a first accession number and replace the first accession number with a second accession number wherein the first accession number is assigned by the source medical facility and the second accession number is assigned by the destination medical facility. The method of transferring medical files can also comprise inserting in the header portion a first accession number to substitute a second accession number existing in the header portion and or storing the medical file in a storage database for medical files.

In other embodiments a method of electronically transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises receiving an instruction and or message and or other system communication to transfer at least one medical file from the source medical facility wherein the instruction and or message and or other system communication comprises at least patient information and a first encryption key for establishing a secure network connection establishing a secure network connection between the source medical facility and the destination medical facility with the first encryption key and a second encryption key and receiving the at least one medical file from a source database for medical files. The method of electronically transferring medical files can also comprise modifying a header portion of the at least one medical file to add an entry comprising audit trail data to record the transfer of the at least one medical file transferring the at least one medical file over the secure network connection to the destination medical facility and terminating the secure network connection after said transferring.

In other embodiments a system for electronically transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises an instruction management module configured to process an instruction and or message and or other system communication to receive at least one medical file from the source medical facility wherein the instruction and or message and or other system communication comprises at least patient information and a first encryption key for establishing a secure network connection a communications module for establishing a secure network connection between the destination medical facility and the source medical facility with the first encryption key and a second encryption key wherein the at least one medical file is transferred over the secure network connection a filter module configured to modify a header portion of the at least one medical file to add an entry comprising audit trail data to record the transfer of the at least one medical file and a storage module configured to determine whether to store the at least one medical file in at least a PACS an image server a radiology information system or a hospital information system wherein the determination is based on a file type of the at least one medical file.

In other embodiments a method for transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises reviewing a request to transfer at least one medical file from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility locating the at least one medical file in a database accessible by the source medical facility wherein the database is at least a PACS an image server database a radiology information system or a hospital information system sending an approval to a main server system to approve the transfer of the at least one medical file wherein the sending causes transferring of the at least one medical file from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility and modifying a header portion of the at least one medical file to remove a first patient identification and replace the first patient identification with a second patient identification wherein the first patient identification is assigned by the source medical facility and the second patient identification is assigned by the destination medical facility and receiving an acknowledgement communication indicating that the at least one medical file was transferred between the source medical facility and the destination medical facility. In other embodiments of the above method for transferring medical files the locating comprises manually or semi automatically or automatically locating the at least one medical file by a film librarian.

In other embodiments a system for electronically transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises a user interface module configured to receive an approval communication from a user to transfer the at least one medical file wherein the user manually locates the at least one medical file a communications module for sending a request to the destination medical facility based on the approval communication wherein the request comprises at least patient information and a first encryption key for establishing a secure network connection between the destination medical facility and the source medical facility with the first encryption key and a second encryption key wherein the sending causes receiving of the at least one medical file at the destination medical facility and modifying of a header portion of the at least one medical file to remove a first patient identification and replace the first patient identification assigned by the source medical facility with a second patient identification assigned by the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments the at least one medical file is located semi automatically or automatically by the system and the resulting medical files can be displayed to the user for selection and or approval.

In certain embodiments the system for electronically transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises storing data in various data fields and or tags and or private tags in the electronic data file of the medical files. For example the data stored may include without limitation a source medical facility identification number a source medical facility patient identification a date when the medical file was transferred a film librarian identification number that authorized the transfer a destination medical facility identification number a destination medical facility patient identification or any other type of data. In certain embodiments multiple data fields and or tags and or private tags are stored in the electronic data file as the medical files are transferred between different medical facilities. In certain embodiments the various data fields and or tags and or private tags can represent a digital fingerprint and or can be used as a file integrity checkpoint and or can be used as an audit trail to reconstitute and or investigate where the medical files have been transferred.

In certain embodiments a system for electronically transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility comprises a procedure mapping module configured to map translate or rename the code and or name of a medical procedure performed at the source medical facility into the procedure code and or name used by the destination medical facility. The procedure mapping module can be configured to use a standardized mapping table or a standardized intermediary code system to map translate or rename the code and or name of a medical procedure performed at the source medical facility into the procedure code and or name used by the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments there is a mapping table at for the source medical facility that can be used to map translate or rename the code and or name of a medical procedure performed at the source medical facility into the standardized procedure code and or name set forth in the standardized mapping table or standardized intermediary code system. In certain embodiments there is a mapping table at for the destination medical facility and or the main server system that can be used to map translate or rename the standardized procedure code and or name set forth in the standardized mapping table or standardized intermediary code system into the procedure code and or name used by the destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments a computer implemented method of electronically transferring medical system messages from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility the method comprises receiving an instruction and or communication to receive at least one medical system message from the source medical facility wherein the instruction and or communication comprises at least patient information and a first encryption key for establishing a secure network connection accessing a secure network connection between the destination medical facility and the source medical facility using paired encryption keys comprising at least the first encryption key receiving the at least one medical system message from the source medical facility over the secure network connection and terminating the secure network connection after said receiving.

In certain embodiments the computer implemented method for transferring medical system messages further comprises analyzing the message type of the at least one medical system message determining whether the message type is compatible with at least one hospital system at the destination medical facility wherein the hospital system comprises at least one of a radiology information system hospital information system an image server or other medical system converting based on said determining the at least one medical system message into a second message type that is compatible with at least one hospital system and transmitting the converted at least one medical system message to the appropriate hospital system.

In certain embodiments a computer implemented method for controlling a permission based workflow process for transferring medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility the method comprises reviewing a request to transfer at least one medical file from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility wherein the request further comprises a criteria for the at least one medical file locating medical files in a database accessible by the source medical facility that possibly satisfies the criteria wherein the database is at least a picture archiving and communication system an image server database a radiology information system or a hospital information system or other medical system causing to display to a film librarian the located medical files that possibly satisfies the criteria receiving from the film librarian a selection of at least one of the located medical files and sending an approval to a main server system to approve the transfer of the at least one selected medical file wherein the sending causes transferring of the at least one selected medical file from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments a computer implemented method for preventing data loss of medical files at a medical facility the computer implemented method comprises receiving notification from at least one of a radiology information system a hospital information system a picture archiving and communication system an image server and other medical system that a medical file has been created or modified obtaining the medical file from the at least one radiology information system hospital information system picture archiving and communication system image server or other medical system accessing a secure network connection between the medical facility and a storage facility using paired encryption keys and transferring automatically the medical file from the remote server to the storage facility.

In certain embodiments a computer implemented method for transferring and managing medical files at a medical facility to enable teleradiology the computer implemented method comprises receiving at a source medical facility notification from at least one of a radiology information system a hospital information system a picture archiving and communication system an image server and other medical system that a medical file has been created or modified obtaining the medical file from the at least one radiology information system hospital information system picture archiving and communication system image server or other medical system analyzing the medical file to determine based on a criteria whether to transfer the medical file to a destination medical facility that provides at least one of outsourced radiology film interpretation analysis and other medical services transferring the medical file from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility based on the analyzing. In certain embodiments the criteria comprises at least a time period for transferring all medical files to the destination medical facility a time period for storing said medical files at the destination medical facility a medical expertise required to review the medical file or an availability of medical professionals at the source medical facility.

In certain embodiments a computer implemented method for verifying and approving a government required release form comprises receiving an electronic copy of an executed government required release form from a patient analyzing a bar code on the executed government required release form to determine the identity of the patient associated with the government required release form correlating the identity obtained from the bar code with at least one medical file associated with the identity of the patient verifying using an optical character recognition module a signature on the executed government required release form with prior signatures stored in a database and sending an approval communication based on said verifying to a remote server at a source medical facility to allow a transfer of the at least one medical file from the source medical facility to a destination medical facility.

For purposes of this summary certain aspects advantages and novel features of the invention are described herein. It is to be understood that not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment of the invention. Thus for example those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves one advantage or group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying figures. The terminology used in the description presented herein is not intended to be interpreted in any limited or restrictive manner simply because it is being utilized in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific embodiments of the invention. Furthermore embodiments of the invention may comprise several novel features no single one of which is solely responsible for its desirable attributes or which is essential to practicing the inventions herein described.

As used herein the terms images records medical reports and medical files may be used interchangeably and the foregoing terms comprise without limitation medical images medical records medical reports signed and unsigned medical files body dimension data studies any type of laboratory reports and or results pathology images reports and results hospital notes consults or any other type of data report or results that are stored in a hospital information system HIS and other medical data or other patient data. The foregoing terms can also include without limitation data reports and or results generated in the ambulatory setting for example electronic medical record EMR to EMR communications or information transferred generated created and or accessed in relay health type systems that manage patient communications and other type of medical messaging and or communication between any types of systems.

The terms hospital or medical facility as used herein are interchangeably and both terms comprise without limitation hospitals private doctors offices medical imaging facilities clinics emergency and or urgent care centers mobile care centers medical kiosk stations computer stations of medical professionals both at homes and at offices and other medical facilities. In certain embodiments the term medical facility also comprises retail outlets both online and physical retail stores manufacturers and the like. In certain embodiments the term medical facility also comprises but is not limited to third party individuals consultants contractors and or outsourcing facilities for example NightHawk Radiology Services or the like.

As used herein the terms film librarian and medical personnel or medical professional are interchangeably used herein and the foregoing terms comprise but are not limited to personnel that store and control access to patient medical image and or record files doctors nurses medical staff physician aids medical secretaries physician assistants or any other medical professional with access and or authorization to create locate and or match patient medical images and or record files.

The term transaction history information as used herein comprises but is not limited to information about the medical facility that sent the medical file for example name of the medical facility the unique medical facility identification medical facility contact information information about the medical facility that received the medical file for example name of the medical facility the unique medical facility identification medical facility contact information the medical professionals and or film librarian involved in the requesting and or sending of the medical file the date and time the medical file was received and other similar information which may sometimes be referred to or known as transaction history information. In certain embodiments the foregoing can be used as audit trail data.

As used herein the interchangeable terms examinations and medical history information comprise without limitation verbal and or written physician medical professional notes diagnoses treatments prescribed drugs or treatments allergies reactions prior or scheduled operations or procedures instructions observations analysis or interpretation of test results medical images or the like laboratory and or test results or the like.

The terms Health Level 7 or HL7 as used herein refer to an ANSI accredited standard developed to allow transfer of data between different systems in healthcare. This standard for transferring data operates at the top level of the open system integration model or at the application layer. While many medical facilities use this standard other standards exist. Accordingly the foregoing terms are broad terms that also refer to other standards for managing data between different healthcare systems and the systems and methods disclosed herein can be used with applied to and or operate in an environment using HL7 or any other standard for managing data between healthcare system.

The term Picture Archiving and Communication System and PACS as used herein refer to systems and devices for the acquisition archival and retrieval of digital images over a computer network for diagnosis and review at workstations. In certain embodiments PACS can be configured to interface or communicate directly with a Hospital Information System HIS and or Radiology Information System RIS using an HL7 connection. In certain embodiments a PACS can communicate with a RIS or HIS through a PACS Broker. A PACS broker is a device that allows the PACS to interface with an HIS or RIS. In certain embodiments a PACS can comprise without limitation for example a worklist broker an image server an archive manager display workstation software and other components. In certain embodiments a PACS is connected to an image server.

As used herein the term managing or transferring are broad interchangeable terms and include without limitation managing transferring facilitating the transferring causing the transferring having something transferred sending transmitting causing the transmitting or the like.

The terms client server system remote server system and medical data transfer server are broad interchangeable terms and refer without limitation to computing systems and or to systems that are involved in the process of processing and or transferring medical files or the like and or controlling a workflow process for processing and or transferring medical files. In certain embodiments such computing systems are located at the medical facility and can communicate with the medical facility systems such as PACS RIS HIS and the like. Alternatively such computing systems are located at a central facility and or a hosting facility and or a third party facility that may be located separate and apart from the medical facility. In certain embodiments the computing system can act as a virtual remote server system that can communicate with the systems for example PACS RIS HIS and the like at and or connected to the medical facility that is being served by the remote server system.

It is recognized that the term remote may include data objects devices components and or modules not stored locally that is not accessible via the local bus. Thus remote data may include a device which is physically stored in the same room and connected to the computing system via a network. In other situations a remote device may also be located in a separate geographic area such as for example in a different location country and so forth.

The terms message medical system message and medical system communication are broad interchangeable terms and refer without limitation to information and or messages sent between and or to hospital systems for example RIS HIS PACS image servers or other hospital systems. For example a message can include but is not limited to a HL7 message or other equivalent message or system communications. Other examples of a medical system message may include but are not limited to EMR to EMR communications or information transferred generated created and or accessed in relay health type systems that manage patient communications and other type of medical messaging and or communication between any types of systems.

The disclosure herein provides methods systems and devices for managing transferring modifying converting and or tracking medical files and or medical system messages. In certain embodiments the foregoing may generally be based on requesting medical files at a first medical facility identifying the requested medical files at a second medical facility initiating a secure network connection between the first and second medical facility modifying a header portion of the medical files based on patient identification information created by the first medical facility and other processing steps.

With the development of new technologies medical images and or records are increasingly created and stored electronically. Electronic medical images and records data are in certain instances reviewed by medical personnel on a picture archiving and communication systems PACS which are computers and or networks dedicated to the storage retrieval distribution and presentation of medical images and records. Generally the medical images and records data are stored in an independent format wherein the most common format for storing medical images and in some cases medical records is DICOM Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine .

In certain PACS there is software and or hardware that prevents doctors from viewing multiple electronic files containing medical images and records wherein the electronic files are associated with different patient identification numbers. Such patient identification numbers also known as a medical record numbers MRN are generally stored in the header portion of the medical images and or records files. This is generally a safety mechanism that prevents medical professionals from comparing data from two different patients. This mechanism operates effectively when each patient possesses one identification number.

In certain instances patients have multiple identification numbers because patients often visit multiple hospitals or other medical facilities. For example patients move from one locality to another or patients seek second opinions from doctors at different medical facilities or patients visit different doctors specializing in different medical fields as patients move through various stages of life or treatment. Generally each doctor and or medical facility has a unique patient identification numbering scheme or system.

Accordingly a patient s medical images and or records at one facility are associated with one patient identification number whereas the same patient s medical images and or records at another facility are associated with a different patient identification number. Therefore PACS that have the safety mechanism described above prevent medical professionals from conducting a side by side review of the medical images and or records associated with different identification numbers even though the images and or records correspond to the same patient. A medical professional using a PACS in conjunction with the methods systems and devices described herein can conduct a side by side review of the medical images and or records associated with different identification numbers provided however that the images and or records correspond to the same patient.

In one embodiment medical facilities are equipped with a system that allows each facility to transfer medical files from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility. During the transfer of the medical files the system is configured to dynamically change or add or modify the patient identification information in the header portion of each medical image and or record file to the patient identification information that the destination medical facility has assigned to the patient. After changing adding or modifying the patient identification information in the header portion the medical image and or record files are stored in the medical facilities databases for medical professionals to review and analyze these files through a PACS or other workstation computer. By modifying the patient identification information in the header portion a PACS or other workstation will recognize that the newly stored files correspond to the patient s previously stored files and therefore a PACS or other workstation will allow medical professionals to conduct a side by side analysis of the newly stored files with the previously stored files.

The network may include one or more of internet connections secure peer to peer connections secure socket layer SSL connections over the internet virtual private network VPN connections over the internet or other secure connections over the internet private network connections dedicated network connections for example ISDN T1 or the like wireless or cellular connections or the like or any combination of the foregoing. In a preferred embodiment the medical facilities are connected to each other through a mesh network wherein each medical facility is capable of connecting to every other medical facility through an on demand and or ad hoc and or available when needed and or non persistent permission based SSL or VPN or other secure connections over the internet as shown in .

At each medical facility there may be a PACS a radiology information system RIS a hospital information system HIS an image server a web interface and or a film librarian interface a firewall and a client server system . PACS allow medical professionals to view medical images and records stored in various systems including in a RIS and or HIS . A RIS is generally used by radiology departments to store manipulate and distribute patient radiological data and possibly images and generally comprises patient tracking and scheduling result reporting and image tracking capabilities. A RIS can also comprise without limitation for example the capability of creating and editing and finalizing reports and tracking of radiology information for example contrast usage or the like. A HIS is an integrated information system designed to manage the administrative financial and clinical aspects of a hospital or other medical facility.

In certain embodiments the client server system as depicted in comprises but is not limited to a transfer module a modification module a RIS interface module a HIS interface module a transaction history database and a HIPAA release form as used herein the term HIPAA release form is a broad term that generally refers to any kind of release form requested or and required by law statute government entity insurance entity medical facility medical professional business entity private public entity or the like database . The transfer module is configured to establish a secure network connection between another medical facility based on instruction information received from the main server system . In certain embodiments the transfer module is configured to establish the secure network connection based on an encryption key received from the main server system . The transfer module can establish network connections serially or simultaneously. In certain embodiments the client server system comprises or is connected to or can electronically access a CDROM DVD Blu ray and or other media burner for writing data onto and or reading data from a CDROM DVD Blu ray disc and or other storage media.

The modification and or filter module is configured to modify the header portion of the medical files received from other medical facilities. In certain embodiments the modification module is configured to modify the patient identification information stored within the header portion of the medical files and or insert the patient identification number used by the medical facility where the client server system is located. In certain embodiments the client server system obtains the patient identification number to be inserted in the header file from the RIS and or the HIS systems by using the RIS interface module and or the HIS interface module and or other interface modules. In other embodiments any portion of an electronic file and or medical system message such as HL7 may be modified.

The transaction history database is configured to record the date and time of the transfer in or out of the client server system the medical facilities involved in the transfer the medical files transferred and other related transfer history data. In certain embodiments the client server system is configured to allow a medical professional to search and or retrieve data from the transaction history database . In certain embodiments a medical facility key obtainable from the main server system is necessary in order to gain access and the ability to search and or retrieve data from the transaction history database .

The HIPAA release form database is configured to receive and store HIPAA release forms from the main server system. In one embodiment the transfer module verifies that a patient HIPAA release form is stored in the HIPAA release form database to determine whether the transfer module is authorized to transfer related medical records to another medical facility. In other embodiments the main server system is configured to search the HIPAA release form database before displaying a request for medical files on a film librarian interface . In certain embodiments the main server system is configured to attach or link the appropriate HIPAA release form located within the HIPAA release form database to the request for medical files so as to allow a film librarian to view the release form while reviewing the request for medical files. In other embodiments a film librarian interface is configured to allow a film librarian to search the HIPAA release form database to determine whether the film librarian is authorized to transfer a medical file to destination medical facility. In certain embodiments the client server system is configured to allow a medical professional to search and or retrieve data from the HIPAA release form database . In certain embodiments a medical facility key obtainable from the main server system is necessary in order to gain access and the ability to search and or retrieve data from the HIPAA release system . In certain embodiments the transaction history database and the HIPAA release form database are different tables within the same database.

Referring to in certain embodiments the client server system is a smart local computer system that resides at the medical facility and alternatively the client server system is not located at the medical facility but rather is located at a separate central hosting facility that is accessible by medical professionals. The client server system whether local at the medical facility or at a central hosting facility can also comprise network connections to the various computer systems within the medical facility. Such network connections allow the smart client server system for example and among other things to establish connections with the main server system and other client server systems encrypt and decrypt data received and sent over a network connection query PACS RIS HIS and or image server systems at the medical facility and or cause medical files examinations and other data to be stored in PACS RIS HIS and or image server systems at the medical facility. In one embodiment the system allows for the client server system to interface with medical professionals at the medical facility and or control a work flow process for transferring patient medical files examinations and other data between medical facilities.

Turning again to a PACS or a separate image server generally stores and archives medical images and or records using a database or other data repository for example a redundant array of independent disks RAID system thereby allowing medical professionals to locate and retrieve receive access or accept medical files at a later date. The web interface and or film librarian interface may take on various forms. In one preferred embodiment the web interface and or film librarian interface is a web browser configured to connect and interact with the main server system . The web interface enables a medical professional to send a request for medical images and or records to the main server system . The film librarian interface allows medical professionals to receive and review requests for medical images and or records. The film librarian interface also allows the medical professional to approve or deny requests for medical images and or records. In one embodiment the web interface and the film librarian interface do not directly connect to the client server system to ensure network security of the client server and the other medical facility servers. In general the firewall operates to limit and or reduce access to files stored within a computer network such as the local area network LAN generally existing at each medical facility from remotely located machines. In other embodiments the firewall is within the client server system .

A kiosk system or a plurality of kiosks connects to the network to communicate with the main server system and to allow patients to interact with the main server . In certain embodiments the kiosk system or like systems can be configured for example to allow patients to generate requests for medical files to be transferred from one medical facility medical professional to another medical facility medical professional and or allow patients to provide approval for transferring medical files from one medical facility medical professional to another medical facility medical professional. For example the kiosks allow patients to submit to the main server system HIPAA Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act release forms which are necessary to allow one medical facility to release medical records to another medical facility. The main server system is configured to connect to the kiosk to receive HIPAA release forms and store the forms in the HIPAA release form database located in the main server system . The main server system is configured to verify the receipt of an executed HIPAA release form before releasing medical files and in certain embodiments the main server system is configured to send a copy of the HIPAA release form to the source medical facility such that copy of the form can be stored in the HIPAA release form database at the source medical facility. In certain embodiments the main server system is configured to transfer an executed HIPAA release form to a destination medical facility for storage.

Generally the kiosk system comprises a computer having memory and a storage medium a display a keyboard and a network connection. In certain embodiments the kiosk system comprises a scanner for scanning and creating a digital file of HIPAA release forms received from patients. In other embodiments the kiosk system comprises an input device configured to allow patients to write and input their signature into the kiosk system thereby providing authorization to release their medical files. In other embodiments the kiosk system comprises a camera for obtaining a digital image of a patient using the kiosk system thereby allowing for visual verification of the patient that is releasing medical files to another medical facility. In certain embodiments the kiosk is a home computer personal computer handheld device or other user access point.

The main server system connects to the client server systems at the medical facilities and the kiosk systems through the network . In a preferred embodiment the main server system comprises but is not limited to a web server an authentication module a transfer history database a billing module a HIPAA release form database and a medical facility keys database . In certain embodiments the main server system can be configured for example among other things to act as a central authentication manager that allows client server systems to communicate with other client server systems control a work flow process for transferring patient medical files examinations and other data between medical facilities build a knowledge database that facilitates the locating and or transferring of medical files examinations and or other data and or enable billing processes for each transfer of medical files examinations and or other data. In certain embodiments medical facilities encryption keys database the transaction history database and or the HIPAA release form database are different tables within the same database.

The web server may comprise for example an Apache HTTP Server configured to serve web pages and web applications. In a preferred embodiment the web server operates to provide and interact with the web interface and the film librarian interface at the medical facilities. In other embodiments the web server operates to provide and interact with patients using a kiosk . The web server is configured to receive requests for medical files and direct the request to the authentication module for further processing. Based on the request the authentication module identifies the medical facility that the request should be sent to and pushes the request through the web server to be displayed on the film librarian interface such that the film librarian can review the request.

If the film librarian approves the request the approval is sent through the film librarian interface to the web server which directs the approval to the authentication module for further processing. The authentication module then sends a communication to the client server system at the source medical facility wherein the communication comprises an instruction to send the requested medical files to the destination medical facility. The authentication module also sends a communication to the client server system at the destination module wherein the communication comprises an instruction to receive the requested medical files from the source medical facility.

In a preferred embodiment the communication sent by the authentication module to the client server systems at the destination and source medical facilities also comprise a network security key for establishing a secure network connection between the two client server systems . In certain embodiments the client server systems are configured to establish secure network connections sequentially or simultaneously wherein each connection uses a different network security key provided by the main server system . In certain embodiments the security key provided by the main server system is only or is generally valid for one use and or for a specific period of time. Alternatively the security key can be recycled after a period of time of non use and still be unique or substantially unique to allow for secure communications and or connections. In certain embodiments it is the authentication module that determines the number times and or the expiry of the network security key. If a transfer of medical files fails to occur the destination and or the source medical facilities sends a communication to the main server system reporting that the medical image files were never sent and or received. The authentication module in certain instances is configured to send another communication to the client server systems at the destination and source medical facilities wherein the communication comprises a new network security key and an instruction to send receive the requested medical files.

The authentication module also operates to record the date and time of the transfer authorization the medical facilities involved in the transfer the medical files transferred and other related transfer history data into the transfer history database . The authentication module also operates to communication signal the billing module to bill the appropriate party for the transfer. In a preferred embodiment the billing module bills the source medical facility for each transfer of medical files. The billing module can also be configured to bill the destination medical facility for each request and or transfer of medical files into the destination medical facility. The billing module can also be configured to generate a bill invoice or transmit a bill invoice over a network connection or through regular mail to any other party such as an insurance company third party invoice processing center or the like. The billing module can be configured to generate and or transfer bills invoices on a real time basis substantially with the completion of the transfer of medical files or on a periodic basis a batch basis or the like. The billing module can also be configured to generate a bill invoice based on a per transaction transmission basis or a subscription model.

In certain embodiments the medical facility keys database stores medical facility keys used by medical professionals to access the transaction history database and the HIPAA release form database stored in the client server systems located at the medical facilities.

In some embodiments the computer clients and or servers described above take the form of a computing system shown in which is a block diagram of one embodiment of a computing system that is in communication with one or more computing systems and or one or more data sources via one or more networks . The computing system may be used to implement one or more of the systems and methods described herein. In addition in one embodiment the computing system may be configured to transfer medical files between medical facilities including maintaining and storing medical files and executing searching and matching algorithms for identifying relevant medical files to fulfill requests for medical files. While illustrates one embodiment of a computing system it is recognized that the functionality provided for in the components and modules of computing system may be combined into fewer components and modules or further separated into additional components and modules.

In one embodiment the system comprises a medical files transfer module that carries out the functions described herein with reference to the client server systems or the main server system. The medical records transfer module may be executed on the computing system by a central processing unit discussed further below.

In general the word module as used herein refers to logic embodied in hardware or firmware or to a collection of software instructions possibly having entry and exit points written in a programming language such as for example COBOL CICS Java Lua C or C . A software module may be compiled and linked into an executable program installed in a dynamic link library or may be written in an interpreted programming language such as for example BASIC Perl or Python. It will be appreciated that software modules may be callable from other modules or from themselves and or may be invoked in response to detected events or interrupts. Software instructions may be embedded in firmware such as an EPROM. It will be further appreciated that hardware modules may be comprised of connected logic units such as gates and flip flops and or may be comprised of programmable units such as programmable gate arrays or processors. The modules described herein are preferably implemented as software modules but may be represented in hardware or firmware. Generally the modules described herein refer to logical modules that may be combined with other modules or divided into sub modules despite their physical organization or storage.

In one embodiment the computing system also comprises an individual computer a cloud computing system a grid computing system and or a mainframe computer system suitable for controlling and or communicating with large databases performing high volume transaction processing and generating reports from large databases. The computing system also comprises a central processing unit CPU which may comprise a microprocessor. The computing system further comprises a memory such as random access memory RAM for temporary storage of information and or a read only memory ROM for permanent storage of information and a mass storage device such as a hard drive diskette or optical media storage device. Typically the modules of the computing system are connected to the computer using a standards based bus system. In different embodiments the standards based bus system could be Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Microchannel SCSI Industrial Standard Architecture ISA and Extended ISA EISA architectures for example.

The computing system comprises one or more commonly available input output I O devices and interfaces such as a keyboard mouse touchpad and printer. In one embodiment the I O devices and interfaces comprise one or more display devices such as a monitor that allows the visual presentation of data to a user. More particularly a display device provides for the presentation of GUIs application software data and multimedia presentations for example. In the embodiment of the I O devices and interfaces also provide a communications interface to various external devices. The computing system may also comprise one or more multimedia devices such as speakers video cards graphics accelerators and microphones for example.

The computing system may run on a variety of computing devices such as for example a server a Windows server a Structured Query Language server a Unix server a personal computer a mainframe computer a laptop computer a cell phone a personal digital assistant a kiosk an audio player iPhone and so forth. The computing system is generally controlled and coordinated by operating system software such as z OS Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows Vista Linux BSD SunOS Solaris or other compatible operating systems. In Macintosh systems the operating system may be any available operating system such as MAC OS X. In other embodiments the computing system may be controlled by a proprietary operating system. Operating systems control and schedule computer processes for execution perform memory management provide file system networking and I O services and provide a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI among other things.

In the embodiment of the computing system is coupled to a network such as a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or the Internet for example via a wired wireless or combination of wired and wireless communication link . In a preferred embodiment the network is a mesh network wherein each computing system is capable of connecting to every other computing system or data source through an on demand or non persistent permission based secure socket layer SSL or virtual private network VPN or other secure connections over the internet as shown in . The network communicates with various computing devices and or other electronic devices via wired or wireless communication links. In the embodiment of the network is communicating with one or more computing systems and or one or more data sources .

Access to the medical files transfer module of the computer system by computing systems and or by data sources may be through a web enabled user access point such as the computing systems or data source s personal computer cellular phone laptop or other device capable of connecting to the network . Such a device may have a browser module is implemented as a module that uses text graphics audio video and other media to present data and to allow interaction with data via the network .

The browser module may be implemented as a combination of an all points addressable display such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or other types and or combinations of displays. In addition the browser module may be implemented to communicate with input devices and may also comprise software with the appropriate interfaces which allow a user to access data through the use of stylized screen elements such as for example menus windows dialog boxes toolbars and controls for example radio buttons check boxes sliding scales and so forth . Furthermore the browser module may communicate with a set of input and output devices to receive inputs signals from the user.

The input device s may comprise a keyboard roller ball pen and stylus mouse trackball voice recognition system or pre designated switches or buttons. The output device s may comprise a speaker a display screen a printer or a voice synthesizer. In addition a touch screen may act as a hybrid input output device. In another embodiment a user may interact with the system more directly such as through a system terminal connected to the score generator without communications over the Internet a WAN or LAN or similar network.

In some embodiments the system may comprise a physical or logical connection established between a remote microprocessor and an individual computer a cloud computing system a grid computing system and or a mainframe host computer for the express purpose of uploading downloading or viewing interactive data and databases on line in real time. The remote microprocessor may be operated by an entity operating the computer system including the client server systems or the main server system an or may be operated by one or more of the data sources and or one or more of the computing systems. In some embodiments terminal emulation software may be used on the microprocessor for participating in the micro mainframe link.

In some embodiments computing systems who are internal to an entity operating the computer system may access the medical files transfer module internally as an application or process run by the CPU .

In one embodiment a user access point comprises a personal computer a kiosk a laptop computer a cellular phone a GPS system a Blackberry device a portable computing device a server a computer workstation a local area network of individual computers an interactive kiosk a personal digital assistant an interactive wireless communications device a handheld computer an embedded computing device iPhone or the like.

In addition to the systems that are illustrated in the network may communicate with other data sources or other computing devices. The computing system may also comprise one or more internal and or external data sources. In some embodiments one or more of the data repositories and the data sources may be implemented using a relational database such as DB2 Sybase Oracle CodeBase and Microsoft SQL Server as well as other types of databases such as for example a flat file database an entity relationship database and object oriented database and or a record based database.

On the request form the medical professional provides patient information related to the patient and medical facility information related to both the destination and source medical facilities. For example the patient information may comprise but is not limited to the patient s name the patient s identification number at the destination medical facility the patient s identification number at the source medical facility the patient s age sex disease type address date of birth social security number or the like. The medical facility information may comprise but is not limited to the name of the medical facility identification number of the medical facility the location of the medical facility the division or branch office of the medical facility the telephone number of the medical facility or the like. In one embodiment the PACS RIS HIS and or other local hospital systems can comprise the same functionality as the film librarian interface such that the PACS HIS and or other local hospital systems can be configured to automatically generate a request for medical files wherein the request is sent to the main server system an application programming interface API . For example a doctor reviewing medical files on a PACS can in context meaning while reviewing medical files for a particular patient generate a request for related medical files that are available at other medical facilities by using the interface of the PACS. In certain embodiments the generated request from PACS RIS HIS and or other local hospital systems can submitted transmitted and or communicated through a http or https connection or URL request message internet connection wireless connection to the main server the client server system and or the film librarian interface system. In certain embodiments the generated request from the PACS RIS HIS and or other local hospital systems can be transmitted communicated and or submitted through a messaging protocol for example HL7 over any kind of network.

The web interface sends the patient information and the medical facility information to the main server wherein the main server system determines where the request should be sent. After identifying the appropriate medical facility the source medical facility to send the request the main server system at block sends the request to the film librarian interface corresponding to the source medical facility.

In a preferred embodiment the film librarian or other medical personnel at block reviews the request on the film librarian interface and attempts to locate and match the patient name and source patient identification number provided in the request form. In certain circumstances the medical professional searches a PACS a RIS a HIS or the like to locate medical files associated with the information provided in the request form. In certain embodiments the system semi automatically and or automatically conducts a search and or matches the patient name and source patient identification number provided in the request form and or searches a PACS a RIS a HIS or the like to locate medical files associated with the information provided in the request form. In certain embodiments the system presents or causes to display match information for example exact and or near matches to the film librarian for review and or approval and or selection. The medical professional then determines whether the source medical facility possesses medical files corresponding to the provided patient information.

If the medical professional locates and matches the provided patient information with medical files at the source medical facility the medical professional approves the request form by interacting with the film librarian interface. The film librarian interface sends the approval communication as well as the matching information to the main server at block . The matching information can comprise but is not limited to the patient identification number assigned by the source medical facility and or names or other identifications to locate the requested medical files. At block the main server system then instructs the client server system at the source medical facility to send transmit or transfer the appropriate medical record files to the client server system located at the destination medical facility. At block the main server system also instructs the client server system located at the destination medical facility to receive access accept or retrieve the appropriate medical files from the client server system at the source medical facility.

In other embodiments the main server system stores or saves the matching information for future use. For example if a future request is received by the main server system and the request comprises substantially the same or similar patient information and or medical files examinations and or MRN s the main server system can be configured to automatically match and or locate the requested medical files based on the previously saved matching information and or user configurable matching criteria and or other algorithm. For example the main server system can be configured to build over time a knowledge database of matching patient identification numbers MRN s locations of medical files examinations or the like. In certain embodiments the knowledge database is generated or updated periodically or in real time based on data mining of the Transaction History Database or by querying various attached and or connected client server systems at medical facilities. Using the knowledge database the main server system can be configured to send transfer or cause to display a listing of all or substantially all the medical files examinations at all or substantially all the medical facilities equipped with a client server system. For example for a specific patient identification number used by one medical facility the main server system can be configured to generate a listing of all known patient identification numbers assigned to the patient at other medical facilities and generate a listing of all or substantially all known medical files examinations available at the various medical facilities. In certain embodiments the knowledge database is generated from data received and or stored in the client server system. In other embodiments the main server system is configured to generate the listing information by retrieving the patient information from the multiple client server systems in real time or periodically based on a batching process.

In other embodiments the locating and matching is performed automatically by the main server system or the client server system and not by a medical personnel operating through a film librarian interface. In this embodiment the main server system is configured to send a request for medical files to the client server system at the source medical facility. The client server system automatically attempts to match and or locate the medical files associated with the patient information provided in the request form via user configurable matching criteria and or other algorithm. In searching for the medical files the client server system connects to the medical facility s PACS image server RIS HIS or other database system where patient medical files are stored.

If a match that satisfies a minimal threshold is found then the request form is approved automatically by the client server system and or may be presented displayed to the film librarian for approval and a communication is sent back to the main server. The main server system then instructs the client server system at the source medical facility to send the appropriate medical record files to the client server system located at the destination medical facility. The main server system also instructs the client server system located at the destination medical facility to receive the appropriate medical files from the client server system at the source medical facility.

To track medical files received at a destination medical facility accession numbers are created for each medical file received. The accession number not only tracks the medical file within a medical facility but also an accession number is used to link related portions of a medical file that are related but stored in different databases. For example an accession number can link a medical image stored in the image database with a corresponding doctor s report that is stored in a RIS and or HIS system because the same accession number has been stored in the header portion of both medical image file and the doctor s report file.

In one embodiment after the medical file has been transferred from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility the client server system directly creates an accession number in the RIS and or HIS and or PACS systems at the destination medical facility wherein the accession number relates to the medical files that have been received. In other embodiments the accession number is created before the medical files have been transferred but after the client server has instructed by the main server system to receive medical files from another medical facility.

In one embodiment the process of creating an accession number occurs directly between the client server system and the RIS and or HIS and or PACS system when the client server system has full and open access to the RIS and or HIS and or PACS systems. Where the client server system does not have full and open access to the RIS and or HIS and or PACS system the client server system in certain embodiments is configured to create an Order Message ORM or equivalent message or the like that is sent to the RIS and or HIS and or PACS systems which causes the RIS and or HIS and or PACS systems to create an accession number for the medical files that were received and returns the accession number to the client server system.

In the HL7 Standard an ORM message is any request for materials for example 500 ml of 2.5 saline or services for example a range of motion study an EKG a lipid panel and the like . Orders are usually for a particular patient. The transmission of clinical orders occurs between the application placing the order the placer and the clinical application filling the order the filler . Accordingly the placer in this embodiment is the client server system at the destination medical facility and the filler is the RIS and or the HIS system at the medical facility.

The client server system at the destination medical facility is configured to modify the header portion of the medical files to ensure that the medical files are compatible with the patient identification numbering system and the other systems at the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments the client server system modifies the header portion of the medical files by removing modifying substituting or adding the patient identification number that corresponds to the source medical facility and inserts modifies substitutes or adds the patient identification number utilized by the destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments the client server obtains the patient identification number from the RIS and HIS systems associated with the destination medical facility. In some embodiments the client server obtains the patient identification number from the main server system. In certain embodiments the main server system provides this information while instructing the client server system at the destination medical facility to receive retrieve access or accept medical files from the source medical facility. In other embodiments the client server system at the source medical facility modifies the header portion of the medical files to comprise the patient identification number provided by the destination medical facility wherein such modification at source medical facility can occur prior to the transfer of the medical file from the source to the destination medical facility.

In some instances the destination medical facility provides the patient identification number directly to the source medical facility. In other instances the patient identification number is provided to the source medical facility by the main server system. In other instances the client server system at the source medical facility is configured to transfer a raw medical data file without a header portion wherein the client server system at the destination medical facility is configured to add a header portion comprising information compatible with the PACS and other systems of the destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments the client server system at the destination medical facility is configured to confirm the medical files into a format that is compatible for the PACS and other systems at the destination medical facility. For example the client server system is configured to convert a DICOM medical image file into a JPEG medical file. Alternatively the client server system may convert a DICOM medical image file with the image compressed in JPEG2000 to a format compatible with the target PACS or other system such as a DICOM image compressed in standard JPEG.

The client server system and or the remote server system is configured to store the received medical files and or examinations in the PACS image server RIS and or HIS systems at the destination medical facility. A medical professional can then retrieve and view the medical files from the PACS RIS and or HIS systems at the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments a user at the destination medical facility can view medical files obtained from the source medical facility side by side with the medical files from the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments the client server system is configured to also store the received medical files in a patient data database within the client server system to enable medical professionals to retrieve and or review medical files and or examinations directly from the client server system without retrieving the information from the PACS image server RIS and or HIS systems. The client server system can be configured to store the medical files and or examinations indefinitely or for a temporary period of time for example minutes hours days months or years. In certain embodiments the client server system can be configured to control store and or remove medical files and or examinations based on a policy that can be fixed and or amended.

In one embodiment the client server system comprises a transaction history database for tracking the transfer history of medical files. For example the client server system is configured to record in the transfer history database the transfer of every or substantially every medical file that is transferred in and or out of its medical facility and such information is known as transaction history information as defined above. In certain embodiments the transaction history information is associated and or is assigned a unique identifier in a lookup table or the like so that the foregoing information can be recalled based on the unique identifier. The unique identifier or a reference tag is then embedded or written or stored in the header of the medical file to a form an audit trail thereby allowing medical professionals or others to later determine the origins of the file.

In certain embodiments the client server system is configured to decipher or interpret at least a part of the foregoing unique identifiers. For example the client server system can identify the medical facility that created the unique identifier. Based on that information the client server system and or a medical professional can search or request to have searched the transfer history database of the medical facility that created the unique identifier to obtain the transfer history information associated with the medical file.

Instead of storing a unique identifier in the header portion of a medical file in another embodiment the transaction history information itself is written or added into the header portion of the medical file as text or in another data format every time or substantially every time the medical file is transferred from one medical facility to another thereby creating an audit trail. If transaction history information is in text the transaction history information can be written with or without tags for example XML HTML and the like . In certain embodiments the PACS or other system is configured to allow a medical professional to review and analyze the transaction history information stored in the header portion of the medical file using a header viewer system.

In other embodiments the client server system is configured to analyze interpret normalize and or filter the transaction history information in the header portion of a medical file and directly store the information in RIS and or HIS systems when the client server system has direct and open access to the RIS and or HIS systems. In other embodiments where the client server system does not have open and direct access to the RIS and or HIS system the client server system creates an Observation Results Message OBX or equivalent message system communication or the like comprising the transaction history information and an accession number and sends the OBX message or equivalent message system communication or the like to the RIS and or HIS systems which accepts and processes and stores the message. Normalizing as used herein can comprise but is not limited to a method or system of analyzing the data extracting certain recognized data elements and assigning those data elements to a particular related data field used by the system.

In other embodiments the transaction history information is transferred in the data portion of a medical file instead of the header portion of a medical file. The transaction history information can be stored as text in the data portion of the medical file with or without tags for example XML HTML and the like or the transaction history information can be stored as an image in the data portion of the medical file. If stored as an image file then the client server system is configured to modify the header portion of this medical file as disclosed herein and store the medical file in the PACS and or image server.

In certain embodiments the PACS and or other systems are configured to allow a medical professional to review and analyze the transaction history information stored in the data portion of the medical file as a normal medical image or record file. PACS and or other systems can also be configured to compare and or review the transaction history information as an image with other medical files because the patient identification numbers do not conflict and or are the same after the client server system inserts overwrites amendments adds and or modifies the correct patient identification number to the header portion of the medical files.

In any transfer of medical files and or examinations there may be multiple series of medical files images reports and or examinations in the set. For example a set may include without limitation a series of scout views a series of brain window images a set of bone window images and or the like. In certain embodiments a transaction history information summary image may appear with separate series and or set. For example as illustrated in a transaction history information summary image can be displayed at the beginning the end and or at any other point of each series. In other embodiments the transaction history summary images may appear at the beginning end and or at any other point in the set. In other embodiments the client server system is configured to analyze interpret filter the transaction history information in the data portion of a medical file normalize the transaction history information and store the normalized transaction history information in RIS and or HIS systems at either a destination or source medical facility.

If the transaction history information is stored as text in the data portion of a medical file then the client server system is configured to analyze interpret normalize and or filter the transaction history information in the data portion of a medical file and directly store the information in RIS and or HIS systems when the client server system has direct and open access to the RIS and or HIS systems. In certain embodiments the storing of the transaction history information in the RIS and or HIS systems occurs by inserting the information into specific related entry fields when the client server system has open and or complete access to the RIS and or HIS systems.

In other embodiments where the client server system does not have open and direct access to the RIS and or HIS system the client server system creates an OBX message or equivalent message system communication or the like comprising the transaction history information and an accession number and sends the OBX message or equivalent message system communication or the like to the RIS and or HIS systems which accept and process and stores the message. Normalizing as used herein can comprise but is not limited to a method or system of analyzing the data extracting certain recognized data elements and assigning those data elements to a particular related data field used by the system. and or the RIS HIS systems as a medical file. The OBX or equivalent message system communication or the like can comprise at least the patient identification number used by the destination medical facility the accession number and the transaction history information and the name of the medical file associated with the transaction history information.

In the HL7 Standard an OBX is a message used to transmit a single observation or observation fragment. One mission of an OBX is to carry information about observations and results. Sometimes the OBX segment is found as a part of an order message ORM or RDE . In this case the OBX carries clinical information needed by the receiving system. For example an OBX is needed to report the menstrual phase information which should and or could be included on an order for a pap smear to a cytology lab. The OBX message or segment can be used to contain encapsulated data for example a PDF document a CDA document or a DICOM image or any of the MIME Multimedia Internet Mail Extension support formats such as JPEG GIF FAX and the like. If the actual observation value is not sent in an OBX but exists somewhere else the OBX message or segment can contain a reference pointer. The reference pointer can be a hyperlink which the receiving system would use to access the observation information document or image. The OBX segment can be used to transmit patient clinical information in a variety of formats.

In other embodiments the client server system is configured to transfer the transactional history information by electronic mail after receiving instructions from the main server system.

Transaction history information differs generally from medical history information as is defined above. In certain embodiments the medical history information is transferred from one medical facility to another in the data portion as opposed to the header portion of a medical file using the various transfer methodologies described herein. The client server system at a destination medical facility is configured to receive to the medical file comprising the medical history information. In some instances the medical history information is stored as text with or without tags for example XML HTML and the like however the medical history information can also be stored as an image.

If the medical history information is stored as text then the client server system at the destination medical facility is configured to analyze interpret normalize and or filter the medical file comprising the medical history information and or directly store the medical history information into the MS and or the HIS system located at the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments the storing of the medical history information in the MS and or HIS systems directly occurs by inserting the information into specific related entry fields when the client server system has open and or complete access to the RIS and or HIS systems.

If the client server system does not have open and or complete access to the RIS and or HIS systems the client server system in some instances is configured to create OBX and or equivalent message or system communication or the like comprising the medical history information and sends the OBX and or equivalent message or system communication or the like to the RIS and or HIS systems such that the medical history information can be stored in the RIS and or HIS systems at the destination medical facility. The OBX and or equivalent message or system communication or the like can comprise at least the patient identification number used by the destination medical facility the accession number and the medical history information.

If the medical history information is stored as an image then the client server in certain embodiments stores the image in the PACS and or image server or RIS or HIS assuming the target system can accept image data. The client server system is configured to modify the header portion of the medical file that comprises the medical history information by inserting or adding to the header portion the patient identification number used by the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments the client server system is configured to directly store the modified medical file comprising the medical history information in the PACS and or image server. In other embodiments the client server system is configured to directly store the modified medical file in RIS and or HIS systems where the client server system has direct and or full access to those systems. If the client server system does not have direct and or full access to those systems then the client server system creates an OBX or equivalent message system communication or the like that can comprise the image and sends the message to the PACS RIS and or HIS systems for processing and storage. Medical professionals with access can use PACS RIS and or HIS systems thereafter to view the medical file side by side with other medical files for that patient stored at the medical facility because the patient identification numbers stored in the header of the medical files do not conflict and or are the same.

In the foregoing embodiment the medical history information can also be inserted into the header portion of the medical file instead of the data portion of a medical file. The client server system at a destination medical facility is configured to receive to the medical file comprising the medical history information in the header portion of the medical file. In some instances the medical history information is stored as text with or without tags for example XML HTML and the like . In certain embodiments the client server system at the destination medical facility is configured to analyze interpret normalize and or filter the header portion comprising the medical history information and or directly stores the medical history information into the RIS and or the HIS systems located at the destination medical facility where the client server system has direct and or full access to those systems. If the client server system does not have direct and or full access to those systems then client server system creates an OBX or equivalent message system communication or the like that comprises the medical history information and sends the message to the RIS and or HIS systems for processing and storage.

In other embodiments the client server system is configured to transfer the medical history information by electronic mail after receiving instructions from the main server system.

Concurrently or sequentially at block patient completes and submits a HIPAA release form. A patient can use a kiosk system or other user access point at the destination medical facility or at some other location completes and or submits a HIPAA release form for allowing the requested medical files to be released. In certain embodiments there is a unique bar code on the HIPAA release form to uniquely identify the HIPAA release form or to associate the HIPAA release form to a particular patient. In certain embodiments this HIPAA release form may be computer generated and downloadable from the internet or in other embodiments may be printed by the kiosk. As disclosed herein the kiosk system or a hospital medical facility workstation attached and or electronically connected to the client server system can accept a paper form completed by the patient. After accepting the HIPAA release form the kiosk can scan and or OCR the paper form into a PDF TIFF or other document image file format at block and identify the bar code or other information on the form. In certain embodiments the bar code is already associated with the patient in which case the kiosk can associate the scanned paper form with the correct patient and transfer the scanned paper form to the main server system for storage in the HIPAA release form database. In certain embodiments the bar code is not already associated with the patient in which case the kiosk system instructs that the user input identification information name contact information username and or identification code or the like and kiosk system verifies the information with the main server system. If the patient information is verified then the kiosk system associates the patient identity for example the main server system s unique identifier the patient identification at the source medical facility the patient identification at the destination medical facility or the like .

Alternatively at block the HIPAA release form can be faxed to an electronic facsimile fax system or other computer system that can digitize and process the fax. At block the fax system can have OCR integrated into the system so that the fax system can read interpret and or decipher the bar code on the HIPAA release form thereby allowing the fax system to automatically associate the faxed HIPAA release form with the proper patient and or request.

Alternatively the kiosk system can allow the patient to complete the form electronically via the interface on the kiosk system. In certain embodiments the kiosk system is configured to comprise a signature pad wherein the patient can write or input his signature to be electronically stored in a database at the kiosk system or in the main server system or in the client server system at a medical facility or printed on to a HIPAA release form. To verify the identity of the patient the signature can be compared to prior signatures on file by the main server system or by the film librarian. The kiosk can also comprise a webcam or other video photo input device for capturing a video or photographic image of the patient using the kiosk. The video or photographic image can be used by the film librarian to verify the identity of the patient.

In other embodiments the kiosk system is a computer accessible by the patient or other device accessible by the patient such as but not limited to a handheld computer with network access to the main server system. Such computers or devices can include without limitation all or some of the features of the kiosk set forth above. Alternatively the patient and or the medical professional can fax email or otherwise transfer the HIPAA release form to the main server system for storage in the HIPAA release form database.

As disclosed herein the main server system receives the executed HIPAA release form and the request for medical files and matches the HIPAA release form to the request by optical character recognition OCR software corresponding bar codes or other methodology of linking the form with the request. At block the main server system stores the request for medical files in the transfer history database and stores the HIPAA release form in the HIPAA release form database. At block using the various methods and systems disclosed herein the main server system displays the request for medical files on a film librarian interface at the appropriate source medical facility. At block a film librarian at the source medical facility reviews the request for medical files and at block uses the RIS and or HIS interfaces available to the film librarian to identify the patient and at block to locate the requested examination or medical files.

In certain embodiments the main server system is configured to compare using OCR software or other recognition software the signature on the HIPAA release form to signatures previously received stored or recorded in the HIPAA release form database to verify the identity of the patient. The main server can also compare the photographic image or video with previously stored photographic images or videos to verify the identity of the patient. The foregoing verification steps can also be completed by the film librarian.

At block if no examination or medical files that correspond to the information in the request form exist or are available then the film librarian selects the option no films were available using the film librarian interface. At block and the response is then sent from the film librarian interface to the main server system and the main server system displays the response on the film librarian interface at the destination medical facility notifying the medical professional that the requested medical record file could not be found. Alternatively and or additionally the main server system is configured to send an email or other notification to the medical professional that created the request for the medical file. In certain embodiments the email can be encrypted and or protected using other secure protocols and or means for protecting the confidential data within the email. The email can also be configured to comprise a hyperlink to a secure website for example requiring a username and password encryption key authentication and or the like in order to obtain retrieve and or review the confidential data and or information.

If the examination or medical files that correspond to the information in the request form do exist or are available then the film librarian selects the option approve using the film librarian interface. In certain embodiments at block the film librarian interface displays the approval form wherein the film librarian enters the medical record number MRN into the approval form as disclosed herein and submits the information. The approval information is sent to the main server system and the main server system sends the information to the client server system at the source system to perform a search for the medical files corresponding to the MRN s provided by the film librarian. For example at block the client server system at the source medical facility performs on a PACS and or an image server at the source medical facility a DICOM query for examinations related to the MRN s provided by the film librarian.

If the medical records are located at the source medical facility the main server system is notified and at block the main server system displays on the librarian interface at the source medical facility the information relating to the medical files located at the source medical facility. Using the film librarian interface at block the film librarian selects the examination and or the medical files appropriate for transfer to the destination medical facility. These selections are sent from the film librarian interface and sent to the main server system and at block the main server system sends the information to film librarian interface at the destination facility so as to notify the medical professional that requested the medical files. Alternatively and or additionally the main server system is configured to send an email or other notification to the medical professional that created the request for the medical file.

The main server system also sends the information about the located medical files to the client server system at the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments at block the client server system performs a check to determine whether the PACS RIS and or HIS systems or other medical systems at the destination medical facility have ORM and or equivalent message or system communication or the like capabilities.

If there are no ORM capabilities and or equivalent order capabilities and or other electronic order creation capabilities the client server system at block sends a communication to the main server system and the main server system relays the communication to the film librarian interface the destination medical facility instructing the film librarian to manually create an order and or a no read order in the RIS and or HIS system at the destination medical facility. The RIS and or HIS system creates an accession number to be associated with the medical files being transferred to the destination medical facility. The film librarian at the destination facility is then presented with a list of exams available for the selected patient. This list may aggregate available studies from multiple medical facilities or may present only studies from one source medical facility based upon whether the initial request was to one or multiple facilities or all known facilities. The destination film librarian can then select the exams and or medical files that are appropriate and desired for transfer. At block for the each exam and or medical files selected for transfer the destination film librarian uses the film librarian interface to select the request at issue and inserts the accession number in the request form. The film librarian interface sends that information to the main server system and the main server system sends the information to the client server system at the destination medical facility.

If there are ORM and or equivalent message or system communication or the like capabilities the film librarian at the destination facility can then be presented with a list of exams available for the patient. This list may aggregate available studies and or medical files from multiple medical facilities or may present only studies and or medical files from one source medical facility based upon whether the initial request was to one or multiple medical facilities. At block the destination film librarian can then select the exams and or medical files that are appropriate and desired for transfer. At block the client server system can then create an ORM and or equivalent message or system communication or the like and sends it to the RIS and or HIS system at the destination medical facility for each exam selected. The RIS and or the HIS system receives the ORM and or equivalent message or system communication or the like creates and accession number to be associated with each of the medical files and returns to the client server the accession number for each file. In one embodiment at block the client server system retrieves the accession number from the RIS and or HIS system after each ORM and or equivalent message or system communication or the like has been sent.

In certain embodiments the film librarian and or the medical professional that created the request for the medical files selects the desired medical files from those that are available and such selection is made through the film librarian interface in some instances. In other embodiments the medical files are automatically transferred from the source destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments after the accession number has been created and has been obtained by the client server system at the destination medical facility the client server system sends a communication to the main server system and at block the main server systems sends a communication to the client server system at the source medical facility wherein the communication comprises an instruction to initiate a network connection with the destination medical facility and send the requested medical files to the destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments the communication comprises without limitation the instruction to retrieve selected medical files from a PACS and or an image server HIS system and or RIS system instructions to transfer medical files to the destination medical facility the medical record number the patient identification number used at the source medical facility the medical facility identification number of the destination medical facility the network location of the client server system at the destination medical facility and or a network key encryption key for establishing a secure network connection with the client server system at the destination medical facility. In certain embodiments the network key encryption key is only valid and or usable for a specific period of time and or can only be used once. Alternatively the network key encryption key can be recycled and or reused after a period of non use.

A similar communication is sent from the main server system to the client server system at the destination medical facility wherein the communication comprises an instruction to accept and or establish a network connection with the source medical facility to receive the requested medical files from the source medical facility.

In certain embodiments the communication to the client server system at the destination medical facility comprises without limitation the instruction to locate the accession number to be associated with the medical files instructions to receive the medical files from the source medical facility the patient identification number used at the destination medical facility the medical facility identification number of the source medical facility the network location of the client server system at the source medical facility and or a network key encryption key for establishing a secure network connection with the client server system at the source medical facility.

In other embodiments the client server system is configured with an interface device for receiving medical files from a portable storage media instead from the source medical facility through a network connection. For example a portable storage media may comprise but is not limited to a CDROM DVD R Blu ray USB or other memory stick floppy diskette a magnetic tape or the like. In other embodiments the client server system is configured with or is connected to an email server wherein the client server system is configured to receive medical files through email as an attachment or a link to a network storage server or the like.

After the medical files have been received by the client server system at the destination medical facility at block the client server system in certain embodiments is configured to modify the header portion of the medical file to insert or add data as disclosed herein. For example the client server system can be configured to insert or add or replace as appropriate the following information into the appropriate fields of the header portion of transferred medical files the new medical record number used by the destination medical facility the new accession number used by the destination medical facility the patient identification number used by the destination medical facility the transaction history information to record the transfer of the medical record file from the source to the destination medical facility the old accession number used by the source medical facility the old accession number used by the source medical facility or any other information.

At block and block the client server system is configured to then store the medical record files in the appropriate database. For example if the medical record is a DICOM image then the client server system may be configured to store the medical file in the PACS and or image server at the destination medical facility. In other instances the medical file is a text file or a PDF file comprising a report or analysis of a medical image file and the client server system is configured to store the medical file in the PACS RIS and or the HIS and or other system at the destination medical center. As disclosed herein the storing of the medical file in the RIS and or the HIS system can occur directly between the client server system and the RIS HIS system or by the client server system creating an OBX and or equivalent message or system communication or the like comprising the medical file and sending the OBX and or equivalent message or system communication or the like to the RIS HIS system for processing and storage.

In other embodiments the client server system at the source medical facility sends the requested medical files to destination medical facility. After receiving the medical files the client server system at the destination medical facility creates an ORM and or equivalent message or system communication or the like and sends it to the PACS RIS and or HIS or other medical system to generate an accession number for each exam received. The PACS RIS and or HIS or other medical system receives the ORM and or equivalent message or system communication or the like creates the accession number to be associated with each of the medical files and returns it to the client server. The client server at the destination medical facility modifies inserts replaces the accession number in the header of the medical file with the newly generated accession number received by the client server system.

In this requesting screen view the medical professional at the destination medical facility provides information related to the medical files being requested. For example the information may comprise but is not limited to institution state institution name patient name the patient identification number used by the source medical facility the patient identification number used by the destination medical facility the date of birth of the patient the patient phone number the medical files being requested for example by description by accession number by date and type and at least a portion of the patient s social security number . The medical professional can also insert notes to be viewed by the film librarian at the source medical facility. After completing the requesting form the medical professional selects the submit button and the request is sent to the main server system.

In this film librarian interface screen view the film librarian at the source medical facility is provided information related to incoming requests for medical files as well as the status of outgoing requests for medical files that were created by medical professionals at the source medical facility. For example in the top portion of the screen the film librarian is presented with incoming requests for medical files from various medical facilities. The film librarian can scroll through the incoming requests wherein certain information is displayed such as the unique identification number of the request the date and time of the request the requesting institution the city state and status of the request or the like. For example the status of a request could be but is not limited to new approved denied and not found. The film librarian can click on any one of the requests to review the detailed information about the request.

The film librarian can utilize the request information displayed on the film librarian interface to cross reference with other database interfaces accessible at the source medical facility to search for the requested medical files. If the film librarian does not locate the medical files the film librarian can select the files not found button. If the film librarian does locate the records but the HIPAA release form cannot be located or is invalid then the film librarian can select the denied button. If the film librarian does locate the records and the HIPAA release form can be found and or is valid then the film librarian hits the approve button which launches a new screen window as shown in .

In this approving screen view the information about the request for medical files and the related patient information is displayed. For example the information comprises but is not limited to institution state institution name patient name the patient identification number used by the source medical facility the patient identification number used by the destination medical facility the date of birth of the patient the patient phone number the medical files being requested for example by description by accession number by date and type and at least a portion of the patient s social security number . The film librarian can also insert input and or append information about the available or located medical records available for transfer . For example the film librarian can input information such as accession number date description of the medical file and modality the medical file exists or the like. In certain embodiments the system can automatically and or semi automatically populate input insert and or write information into the approving screen view for the film librarian to review and or approve . The film librarian can also insert notes to be viewed by the medical profession at the destination medical facility.

After completing the approving form the film librarian selects the approve button and the approval information is sent to the main server system. In certain instances the main server system is configured to send instructions to the client server system at the source medical to send the specified medical files to the destination medical facility and to send instructions to the client server at the destination medical facility to accept the medical files from the source medical facility. In other embodiments the main server system is configured to present the available medical files to the film librarian at the destination medical center wherein the film librarian at the destination medical center can select which medical files should be transferred from the source medical facility. After the medical files are selected on the film librarian interface at the destination medical facility the selection information is sent from the film librarian interface to the main server system wherein the server system sends instructions to both the client server systems at the source and destination medical facilities as set forth above.

With reference to an example of the medical procedure mapping module is depicted in the main server system. The medical procedure mapping module can be used to map translate or rename the code and or name of a medical procedure performed at a first medical facility into the procedure code and or name used by a second medical facility . As illustrated in Medical Facility has performed scan of Patient and the procedure name for the scan is CT Abd Pelvis w IV Contrast which means Patient had a CT scan of his abdomen and pelvis areas with IV contrast added. Patient has authorized Medical Facility to access his scan however Medical Facility has a different patient identification number for the patient and uses a different name for the medical procedure that was performed for example Abd Pelvis CT w .

Accordingly and still with reference to the code and or procedure name of the scan can be changed within the header portion of the patient file for purposes of ensuring that the file is compatible with the medical systems at Medical Facility enabling medical professionals at Medical Facility to determine the contents of the medical file conforming the file name to the consistent naming standard of Medical Facility ensuring the association of the proper billing codes and or medical reimbursement codes to the medical file or the like. The remapping or renaming protocol can be a one to one mapping or a many to one mapping or one to many mapping. For example a one to one mapping is where each code and or name of a medical procedure is mapped to one specific code and or name. In contrast a many to one mapping is where several codes and or names of medical procedures are mapped to one specific code and or name.

In certain embodiments the system is configured to map medical procedure codes and or names at destination and or source medical facilities to a standardized mapping table and or a standardized intermediary code system. By using a standardized mapping table and or a standardized intermediary code system the complexity of maintaining separate mappings for each institution can be reduced. The original procedure name and or code may in certain embodiments be stored in a DICOM tag or private DICOM tag in the header and or displayed as in a summary image saved stored embedded or burned into the image set. In certain embodiments the medical procedure mapping module automatically maps translates and or renames the source procedure code and or name to the code and or name of the medical procedures used at the destination medical facility possibly through the standardized intermediary code system described above and stores the data in the PACS RIS and or HIS systems at the destination medical facility.

Regarding in certain embodiments the medical procedure mapping module is located at the medical facility in the client server system . After receiving the medical file from Medical Facility the client server system at Medical Facility processes the header portion of the medical file using the medical procedure mapping module. The medical procedure mapping module identifies the CT Abd Pelvis W IV Contrast code and or name of a medical procedure performed Medical Facility and maps translates and or renames it to the code and or name of the corresponding medical procedure performed Medical Facility which in this example is Abd Pelvis CT . In the foregoing example a one to one mapping is used wherein medical procedure codes and or names at one medical facility map directly to medical procedure codes and or names at another medical facility.

Referring to alternatively the medical procedure mapping module located at the source medical facility in this example Medical Facility can be configured to use the medical procedure mapping module to map translate and or rename the medical procedures to the corresponding codes and or names in a standardized mapping table and or standardized intermediary code system stored at the main server system . The standardized mapping table and or standardized intermediary code system can be accessed in the main server in real time or a copy of the standardized mapping table and or standardized intermediary code system can be transferred distributed or pushed out periodically to the client server systems so that the information can be accessed locally and without accessing the main server . The mapped translated and or renamed the medical procedure having the standardized nomenclature can be transferred to the destination medical facility for example Medical Facility or . The client server system at the destination medical facility medical for example Medical Facility or can use the procedure mapping module and the standardized mapping table to map translate and or rename the medical procedure having the standardized nomenclature to the codes and or names used by the destination medical facility. In the foregoing example medical procedure codes and or names at one medical facility are mapped first to a standardized mapping schema or table and then the standardized mapping codes and or names are mapped to the multiple medical procedure codes and or names at other medical facilities.

Referring to the medical procedure mapping module can also be configured to allow a medical professional with the appropriate authorization and or system privileges to manually review analyze approve override set and or identify the code and or name of the medical procedure to be associated with the medical file. The setting chosen by the medical professional can be temporary for example a special code or name for the medical file or can be stored for similar medical files received in the future. As such the medical procedure mapping module can be configured to remember and or save the setting manually performed or selected by the medical professional so that similar medical files received in the future will automatically be associated with the code and or name of the medical procedure. Accordingly the medical procedure mapping module can learn over time the proper codes and or names to be associated with certain medical files or build a mapping table over time. Alternatively the medical procedure mapping module can be configured with a mapping table during the initial setup or during periodic updating of the client server system and or the main server system.

In some embodiments the acts methods and processes described herein are implemented within or using software modules programs that are executed by one or more general purpose computers. The software modules may be stored on or within any suitable computer readable medium. It should be understood that the various steps may alternatively be implemented in whole or in part within specially designed hardware. The skilled artisan will recognize that not all calculations analyses and or optimization require the use of computers though any of the above described methods calculations or analyses can be facilitated through the use of computers.

With reference to when importing medical files and or examinations from a source medical facility to a destination medical facility the transferred medical files and or examinations are generally listed in a work list as a new medical file and or examination for a medical professional to review analyze and process however such transferred medical files and or examinations have generally been reviewed and analyzed by a medical professional at the source medical facility. To review and analyze a new medical file and or examination it is processed over several stages for example approved unread read preliminary interpretation and or final interpretation signed steps. To ensure that already reviewed and analyzed medical files and or reports do not go through the foregoing processing stages the client server system can be configured to use an Observation Result ORU message and or equivalent message system communications or the like to properly mark the medical files and or examinations as signed or electronically signed process .

Referring to in the HL7 Standard an ORU is usually in response to an order and provides clinical observations. In HL7 messaging ORU messages provide structured patient oriented clinical data between systems for example EKG results to a physician s office . ORU messages also can be used for linking orders and results to clinical trials for example new drugs or new devices . Clinical observations can include without limitation clinical laboratory results imaging studies for example text EKG pulmonary function studies and or interpretations and or the like.

Regarding in certain embodiments the client server system can be configured to use an ORU message and or equivalent message system communication or the like to set a flag or status flag in a PACS RIS HIS and or other system or to trigger a PACS RIS HIS and or other system to mark selected medical files and or examinations as signed block . For example after a client server system at a destination medical facility receives medical files and or examinations from a source medical facility the client server system can be configured to store the medical files and or examinations into the medical facility s PACS HIS RIS and or image server systems using a direct HL7 and or DICOM connection at block . In certain embodiments the client server system is configured to use an ORU and or equivalent message system communication or the like to set a flag or status flag in the RIS HIS and or PACS or to trigger the RIS HIS and or PACS at block to mark the recently stored medical files and or examinations as signed or approved reviewed and or analyzed so that the medical files and or examinations do not appear to a medical professional as unread and or a new study. Marking the medical files and or examinations as signed generally prevents the medical professional from reviewing already reviewed medical files and or examinations and allows the medical professional to use the medical files and or examinations for historical review or comparison purposes.

In certain embodiments the source medical facility is an emergency room hospital clinic doctor s office or the like and the destination medical facility is a third party that provides outsourced radiology film interpretation analysis and or other medical services. For example such third parties include without limitation NightHawk Radiology Services Virtual Radiologic Quality Nighthawk US Radiology On Call or the like. These third parties are generally employed by the source medical facility to read analyze and or interpret the medical files and or examinations generated at the source medical facility and to transfer back such analysis consultation reports images or the like to the source medical facility for the medical professionals to review analyze and relay to the patient.

In this example the medical files and or examinations may need to be transferred or forwarded from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility wherein the transferred medical files and or examinations are marked new unread unanalyzed and or unsigned at the destination medical facility. The client server system in certain embodiments is configured to automatically forward medical files and or examinations to a destination medical facility based on a criterion for example a specific time period low staffing period periodic basis in real time or other basis. The criterion can also include but is not limited to being based on a specific time period for example off hours based on staffing available for example scheduled staffing or real time assessment of staffing and or current work load at the medical facility based on a specific examination type or specialty required or any other criteria. Alternatively the client server system can be configured to forward a file copy of or an electronic copy of all or substantially all images medical files and or examinations received on a specific TCP IP port to a destination medical facility. The medical files and or examinations are marked new unread unanalyzed and or unsigned so that the third party medical professionals will be notified to review analyze and interpret the transferred medical files and or examinations.

Generally when transferring medical files and or examinations the destination medical facility may automatically import and or display the medical files and or examinations in a work list or the like and mark the medical files and or examinations as new unread unanalyzed and or unsigned. In certain embodiments the client server system at a destination medical facility is configured to store the medical files and or examinations into the medical facility s PACS HIS RIS and or image server systems using a direct DICOM and or HL7 and or other connections. The client server system can also be configured to use an ORU and or equivalent message system communication or the like to set a flag or status flag in the PACS RIS HIS and or other systems or to trigger the PACS RIS HIS and or other system to mark the recently stored medical files and or examinations as unsigned or unapproved not reviewed and or unanalyzed so that a medical professional will be notified to review analyze and or interpret the recently transferred and or stored medical files and or examinations.

After reviewing analyzing interpreting and or signing the medical files and or examinations the client server can be configured to transfer the signed medical files medical reports and or examinations back to the source medical facility and or other medical facilities. In transferring the signed medical reports and or examinations back the client server system at the source medical facility and or at other medical facilities can be configured to use an ORU message and or equivalent message system communication or the like to set a flag or status flag in a PACS and or RIS or to trigger a PACS and or RIS to mark the medical files and or examinations as signed if so desired.

Enterprise Master Patient Index or Enterprise wide Master Patient Index EMPI are Master Patient Indexes MPI or Patient Master Indexes PMI which link several smaller organization level MPIs together. In medical systems a MPI is an index referencing all or substantially all patients known to an area enterprise or organization. In certain embodiments the client server systems and or the main server systems are configured to connect and communicate with EMPI MPI and or PMI systems to locate search retrieve and store medical files examinations and or other data.

In certain embodiments medical facilities may require that medical files and other data be stored and or backed up at an off site facility and or at a third party service provider. Such requirements may be due to government regulations disaster preparedness planning cost maintenance policies and or other medical facility policies. In certain embodiments the client server system is configured to automatically forward medical files and or examinations to a medical facility third party service provider off site facility or the like that acts as a backup storage facility.

In certain embodiments the medical facilities may require that medical files and or other data files that are transferred into and or out of the medical facility be converted into a different file format and or type so that the medical files medical system messages and or other data files are compatible with and or may be read by the systems and or computer systems at the medical facility. In certain embodiments the file and or message conversion module can be configured to convert medical files medical system messages and or other data files into other types of data file formats. In certain embodiments the medical files and or other data files may be converted by the client server system at the source and or destination medical facility. For example the medical files and or other data files may be converted from a Microsoft Word file to a WordPerfect file and or the like. Other example file conversions include without limitation DICOM using JPEG2000 to DICOM using JPEG DICOM to JPEG Microsoft Word to ASCII text and the like. In certain embodiments the file and or message conversion module can be configured to convert transform and or reformat system messages for example HL7 messages into other message formats and or types to be compatible with other hospital systems for example RIS HIS PACS and or other formats. This converting transformation and or reformatting process can be specific down to the individual character.

In certain embodiments the file and or message conversion module can be configured to determine the file format type by reviewing the extension name of the file and or analyzing the contents of the files. The file and or message conversion module can be configured to convert multiple medical files and or other data files as an entire set.

In certain embodiments it can be advantageous for a medical file medical image medical system message and or a record file to be processed by a processing system. For example during the transfer of a medical image from a first medical facility to a second medical facility it can be advantageous in certain situations for the medical image to be processed by a third party image processing system. In some cases a medical facility may have a contract or other agreement with a third party image processing facility alternatively no contract or agreement exists and services from the third party imaging processing facility are provided on an ad hoc basis or as an on demand processing service to receive medical images and or medical files in order to process the files in a certain manner before the medical image and or medical file is sent off to the destination medical facility. Examples of processing by a third party entity can include without limitation image processing image enhancement via techniques such as iterative reconstruction or techniques not yet developed data processing data format processing transcription processing data normalization processing data mining processing authentication processing data analysis processing data storage processing and any other processing.

Third party processing of medical images and or medical files can be especially advantageous when a medical facility does not have the computing resources to perform processing of medical files and or medical images or if it does not make sense for smaller medical facilities to have individual computing resources versus sharing such resources with other facilities. For example image processing of medical image files can require a tremendous amount of computing power and or expensive software algorithms and or access to inexpensive electricity. Accordingly it can be more efficient and less expensive for medical facilities to engage third party entities to perform image processing when the third party entity has access to large computing resources sophisticated image processing algorithms and or access to inexpensive electricity.

However there can exist a potential security risk associated with third party processing. Therefore there is a need for systems and methods for anonymizing the medical files of a patient before transferring such data to a third party entity for processing and then associating the processed medical file with the correct patient identification number. illustrate methods and systems for transferring medical files to an image and or file processing system and anonymizing medical files before the data is sent over to a third party processing entity.

As illustrated in the image and or file processing system can comprise a firewall system to prevent unauthorized access to the image and or file processing system through the network connection . The image and or processing system can comprise a client server system . The client server system can be configured to communicate with the main server system the first medical facility and the second medical facility . In an embodiment the client server system can be configured to receive instructions from the main server system . For example the client server system can be instructed by the main server system to receive medical images and or medical files from the first medical facility .

In an embodiment the client server system can also receive instructions from the main server system to process the medical files and or medical images received from the first medical facility using the image processing system the file processing system or any other processing systems . The client server system can also receive instructions from the main server system to transfer the processed medical file and or medical image to the second medical facility through the network .

In this example the second medical facility may have requested that a medical file and or a medical image be transferred from the first medical facility to the second medical facility . The second medical facility and or the first medical facility may have an agreement or other contract with a third party processing entity that comprises the image and or file processing system . Pursuant to the agreement and or contract all or some based on optional criteria of the medical file is received by the second medical facility are to be first processed by the image and or file processing system before the medical file and or medical image is sent to the second medical facility . The optional criteria for determining whether a medical file is sent to an image and of file processing system can include without limitation time of day available staffing price of processing reimbursement amount size of file medical emergency type doctor instructions turn around time requirements bandwidth availability available computing resources number of patient cases image file type image file clarity number of files in a queue or any other factor. The optional criteria can also include the physician preference for example either the interpreting physician the referring physician or some other physician the medical facility for example the source medical facility destination medical facility preference combination associated with the transfer the source medical facility or the destination medical facility involved the protocol and or type of examination the procedure code and or type the procedure description the amount of statistical noise within the image s or medical file noise abnormalities characteristics and or type the machine or scanner type and or age and or characteristic that produced the image or medical file the history and or diagnosis of the patient that can be included in the medical file and the flagging or tagging or requesting of the image file or medical file be further processed by the image and or file processing system .

The instructions for sending the medical image and or medical file to the image and or file processing system before sending the medical file and or medical image to the second medical facility can be sent by the main server system when the main server system instructs the first medical facility to send specific medical files and or medical images to the second medical facility . Alternatively the instructions for sending the medical files and or the medical images to the image and or file processing system can be sent by the second medical facility when the first medical facility makes a direct connection with the second medical facility . In other embodiments the first medical facility can be configured to send the medical image s and or file s to the image and or file processing system first without any specific instructions from the main server system or the second medical facility . For example the first medical facility can send the medical image s and or file s to the image and or file processing system due to internal protocol and or standing instructions from the main server system and or second medical facility .

In the first option the main server system can be configured to store the transfer preferences of the second medical facility . For example the second medical facility can have the transfer preference of transferring all medical files and or medical images first to the image and or file processing system for processing before the medical file and or medical images are sent to the second medical facility . Accordingly whenever the main server system receives from the second medical facility a request for medical files and or medical images the main server system can access the transfer preferences for the second medical facility . In identifying the transfer preferences of the second medical facility the main server system can be configured to send instructions to the client server system at the first medical facility to transfer certain medical files and or medical images to the image and or file processing system .

In an embodiment the main server system can be configured to send instructions to the client server system at the image and or file processing system to receive medical files and or medical images from the client server system that is a part of or connected to the first medical facility . In the instructions to the image and or file processing system the main server system can be configured to instruct that the received medical files and or medical images be processed according to the processing preferences designated by the second medical facility . For example the processing preference can include without limitation processing all medical images using the image processing system using a specific image processing algorithm.

In other embodiments the instructions from the main server system can be based on a criteria established by the second medical facility . For example the main server system can be configured to instruct the client server system at the image and or file processing system to process medical files using a first image processing algorithm during a certain time period or to use a second image processing algorithm during a second time period. The main server system can also be configured to instruct the client server system at the image and or file processing system to send the image file and or medical file after it has been processed to the client server system that is part of or connected to the second medical facility through network .

Alternatively transfer preferences can be sent to the first medical facility from the second medical facility as opposed to being sent by the main server system . For example when the second medical facility makes a request for medical files and or medical images from the first medical facility the client server system that is part of or connected to the second medical facility can be configured to contact the main server system to submit the request for the medical files and or medical images. The main server system can be configured to contact the client server system that is part of or connected to the first medical facility to instruct the client server system to establish a network connection with the client server system that is a part of or connected to the second medical facility in order to transfer the requested medical files and or images from the first medical facility to the second medical facility .

The client server system that is part of or connected to the first medical facility can be configured to establish a network connection with the client server system that is part of or connected to the second medical facility . Using the network connection the second medical facility can be configured to instruct the client server system that is part of or connected to the first medical facility to send the requested medical files and or images to the client server system that is part of or connected to the image and or file processing system . The client server system that is part of or connected to the second medical facility can also be configured to send to the client server system that is part of or connected to the first medical facility the processing preference instructions.

After receiving the processing preference instructions of the second medical facility the client server system that is part of or connected to the first medical facility can be configured to establish a network connection with the client server system that is part of the image and or file processing system in order to transfer the requested medical files and or the medical image files to the client server system . The client server system that is a part of or connected to the first medical facility can also be configured to transfer the processing preferences of the second medical facility to the client server system that is part of the image and or file processing system . In an alternative embodiment the client server system that is part of or connected to the second medical facility can be configured to send directly to the client server system that is part of the image and or file processing system the processing preferences of the second medical facility .

At block the client server system can be configured to display the request received from the main server system and the available medical files and or medical image files to a film librarian to review and approve. In displaying the available medical files and or medical image files the client server system at the source medical facility can be configured to access the image server RIS HIS systems . Optionally at block the client server system at the source medical facility can be configured to determine based on criteria whether the medical file should be transferred to an image file processing system for processing. The determination can also be performed by the source medical facility and or the main server system. The criteria can include those disclosed above. At block approval from the film librarian is received by the main server system. The main server system can be configured to send network connection keys to the destination medical facility and the source medical facility and the image file processing system. The main server system can also be configured to instruct the source medical facility to establish a network connection with the image file processing system to send the requested medical files and or medical images to the image file processing system.

At block the client server system at the processing system establishes a network connection with the source medical facility. At block the image file processing system receives medical files and or images from the source medical facility and performs image and or file processing before transmitting the files to the destination medical facility. At block the client server system at the destination medical facility establishes a network connection with the image file processing system. At block the client server system at the image file processing system locates and transfers the processed medical files and or medical images to the destination medical facility. At block the main server system can be configured to optionally record the transaction in a transaction history database . At block the client server system at the destination medical facility can be configured to receive and store the processed medical files and or medical images in a PACS database image server database RIS database HIS database or any other databases . At block the client server system at the destination medical facility can be figured optionally and an ORU message to a PACS RIS system to mark the medical files examinations and or medical images as signed .

One method can begin at block wherein the client server system that is part of or connected to the source medical facility can be configured to determine if the medical file is an image file. If the medical file is determined to be an image file the client server system at block can be configured to locate identification information in the image. At block the client server system can be configured to remove and or obscure identification information that is located in the image. At block the client server system can be configured to locate identification information in the header portion of the image file. If identification information is located in the header portion of the image file the client server system can be configured to remove and or obscure the identification information in the header at block . At block the client server system can be configured to associate the medical file and or the medical images with a processing identification. At block the client server system can be configured to send the anonymized medical files and or the medical images to the image file processing system and or destination medical facility. At block the client server system can be configured to send the processing identification along with the true patient identification to the destination medical facility.

In a second method for anonymizing medical files the client server system that is a part of or connected to the source medical facility can be configured to locate the identification information in the medical file and or in the header of the medical file at block . If the patient identification information is located in the medical file the client server system at block can be configured to remove and or obscure the identification information in the medical files. At block the client server system can be configured to associate the medical files with a processing identification. At block the client server system can be configured to send the anonymized medical files to the image file processing system and or destination medical facility. At block the client server system can be configured to send the processing identification to the destination medical facility along with the true patient identification associated with the medical files.

In a third possible process and or method for anonymizing medical files the client server system associated with the source medical facility at block can be configured to divide the to be transferred medical files into multiple parts. At block the client server system can be configured to associate each part with a sequence identification number for later reconstruction. At block the client server system can be configured to send the multiple parts of the medical files to an image file processing system a plurality of image file processing systems and or a destination medical facility. At block the client server system can be configured to send the sequence identification numbers to the destination medical facility in order to reconstruct the medical files that were divided into multiple parts. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that one or more aspects of the three processes for anonymizing medical files can be combined with any of the foregoing three processes for anonymizing medical files and or images.

In certain embodiments it can be advantageous to allow a patient or a user to use a mobile device or other computing system to control and or authorize the transfer of medical files and or medical images between medical facilities. For example it can be convenient and advantageous for a patient to use his mobile device to review medical file transfer requests between two medical facilities. The user could also use the mobile device to authorize the transfer of medical files between two medical facilities. In certain embodiments it can also be advantageous to allow patients and or other users to aggregate the medical identification numbers associated with a particular patient at various medical facilities. For example a patient that visits multiple medical facilities can be associated with multiple patient identification numbers one for each medical facility. It can be advantageous for the patient to aggregate all of the patient identification numbers on a single mobile device or other computing system. By aggregating the patient identification numbers the patient can control and or authorize the transfer of patient identification numbers and or medical files and or medical images to various medical facilities. illustrate various systems and methods for authorizing the transfer of medical files and medical images from a mobile device or other computing system of a patient or user and methods and systems for aggregating patient identification numbers.

Screen view illustrates how a patient or user can select a particular medical file that is available at a particular medical facility for transfer to a different medical facility. For example patient A can select medical file x which is stored at medical facility and can authorize the transfer of medical file x to a different medical facility. Screen view illustrates how a patient or user can use the patient ID aggregation system to select a different medical facility for transferring a medical file from a source medical facility. For example patient A can use the patient ID aggregation system to select medical facility for transferring medical file x from medical facility . Screen view illustrates how a patient or user may use the patient ID aggregation system to authorize the transfer of a medical file and or medical image from one medical facility to another. For example patient A in selecting medical facility can authorize the transfer of medical file x from medical facility to medical facility . In an embodiment the patient ID aggregation system can be configured to run on a mobile device or a computing system accessible by the patient or user.

The mobile device and or the computing system can be configured to connect to the main server system through a network. When a patient or user authorizes the transfer of a medical file or medical image from one medical facility to another the patient ID aggregation system can be configured to send an authorization notice or signal or message to the main server system. When the main server system receives the authorization from the patient ID aggregation system the main server system can be configured to contact and or instruct the source medical facility to transfer the particular medical file and or medical image to the destination medical facility. In an embodiment the main server system can be configured to contact and or instruct the destination medical facility to receive the selected medical file and or medical image from the source destination medical facility. In contacting the source medical facility and the destination medical facility the main server system can be configured to send network security keys to both the source medical facility and the destination medical facility in order for a secure network connection to be established between the two medical facilities.

In a second modality for aggregating patient identification numbers the patient identification numbers are known by all entities. In this embodiment as illustrated in flow diagram patient identification numbers are aggregated and broadcasted by the patient ID aggregation system in a bi directional flow. Accordingly the patient ID aggregation system not only receives patient IDs from medical facilities but the patient ID aggregation system also sends to medical facilities all of the patient identification numbers associated with a particular patient. For example patient A is associated with a patient identification number at medical facility . Medical facility can be configured to send to the patient ID aggregation system patient A s patient identification number and the patient ID aggregation system can be configured to send to the medical facility all of the other patient identification numbers associated with patient A at other medical facilities. A similar bi directional flow of patient identification numbers occurs at medical facility and medical facility .

In a third modality for aggregating patient identification numbers the patient identification numbers are only known by the patient controlling the patient ID aggregation system and the main server system. In this embodiment as illustrated by block diagram patient identification numbers are aggregated by the patient ID aggregation system and or by the main server system in a unidirectional flow. For example the patient ID aggregation system can be configured to receive patient identification numbers for patient A from various medical facilities in a unidirectional flow. In an embodiment the aggregated patient identification numbers can be sent or transferred from the patient ID aggregation system to the main server system. Alternatively the main server system can be configured to receive the various patient identification numbers associated with patient A from the various medical facilities.

It is envisioned that certain patients and or users will want to request transfer of one or more medical files and or records using a mobile device and or other user access point system of the patient or user. However there are inherent security issues related to allowing patients to request transfer of medical files from their mobile devices. For example if a patient loses or misplaces his or her mobile device a third party may be able to obtain and or transfer the patient s personal medical files and or records without the patient s knowledge. Accordingly there exists a need for a system and or method of authenticating transfer requests of medical files that originate from a mobile device. As such it can be advantageous to authenticate a transfer request originating from a mobile device and or other user access point system. In certain embodiments such authentication method comprises use of one or more authentication keys.

In some embodiments if the identity of the patient is verified a computing system and or client server system of the medical facility generates an authentication key at block . The authentication key can be for example a linear barcode a two dimensional matrix barcode three dimensional barcode QR code or any other code or item that can be inputted into a computing system and or user access point system. In certain embodiments the medical facility generates the authentication key according to an authentication key generating algorithm. The authentication key generating algorithm can be pre determined by the main server system. In certain embodiments the authentication key generating algorithm is based at least on the location of the medical facility and or time when the authentication key was generated. In certain embodiments the authentication key that is generated by the computing system and or client server system of the medical facility is transmitted to the main server system for verification.

In other embodiments after verifying the identity of the patient a computing system and or client server system of the medical facility generates and sends an electronic communication to the main server system confirming the identity of the patient. After receiving the confirmation in certain embodiments the main server system generates and sends an authentication key to the medical facility. In some embodiments the generated and or verified authentication key is given to or provided to the patient by the medical facility at block .

At block a patient and or user can request transfer of one or more medical files from a source facility to a destination facility using a user access point system. In some embodiments the user access point system can request that the patient and or user input an authentication key and or select an authentication key that is already inputted. At block a patient and or user can input and or select the authentication key into the user access point system. For example in certain embodiments the patient and or user can scan the authentication key into a mobile device using the mobile device s camera wherein the mobile device is configured to interpret the authentication key which can be a barcode thereby avoiding the need for the patient to input the code through an input device such as a keyboard or touch screen. Alternatively the patient and or user can input the authentication key through an input device such as a keyboard or touch screen or a wireless signal received from the client server system or a SMS text message email or the like. In some embodiments the user access point system can send the inputted authentication key to the main server system at block .

The main server system can verify the authentication key received from the user access point system at block . In some embodiments the main server system can compare the authentication key received from the user access point system to an authentication key related to the patient and or user which is already stored in the main server system. For example in certain embodiments the main server system can compare the authentication key it received from the user access point system at block to the authentication key it received from the medical facility at block . In other embodiments the main server system can compare the authentication key it received from the user access point system at block to an authentication key that the main server previously generated for the patient and or user.

In some embodiments a single authentication key is tied to a single specific medical file and or record. For example in certain embodiments inputting and or selecting a particular authentication key will only authorize a transfer request for the particular medical file and or record connected to that authentication key. In other words that particular authentication key will not authorize transfer requests of any other medical file and or record.

In other embodiments a single authentication key can be tied to more than one medical file and or record. For example in certain embodiments a single authentication key can be tied to all medical files and or records of a patient at a specific medical facility and or hospital. In some embodiments inputting and or selecting that single authentication key will authorize transfer requests for any medical files and or records at that particular medical facility. However in certain embodiments the particular authentication key will not authorize transfer requests of any medical files and or records at any other medical facility.

In certain embodiments a single authentication key is tied to all medical records and or files that are known of a patient and or user. For example in some embodiments inputting and or selecting a single authentication key can authorize transfer requests of any medical file and or record that is known of the patient and or user. In certain embodiments a patient and or user may only need to obtain a single authentication key from a single medical facility in order to authorize transfer requests of any medical file and or record at a later point in time.

In some embodiments the system is configured such that a user and or patient can input one or more authentication keys into the user access point system and or mobile device which can store the inputted one or more authentication keys. In certain embodiments the user access point system is configured to receive and aggregate the one or more authentication keys. Once the one or more authentication keys are stored in the user access point system the user and or patient can at a later point in time select the previously scanned in or otherwise inputted authentication key for authorizing a later transfer request of a medical file and or record. For example if a user and or patient inputs an authentication X into a user access point system at a first point in time wherein the authentication key X is configured to authorize the transfer of medical file A then at a later point in time the user can select authentication key X that is stored in the user access point system in order to authorize transfer of medical file A between different medical facilities.

In certain embodiments the user access point system is not configured to store and or aggregate one or more authentication keys. Rather the system is configured such that a user and or patient has to scan in or otherwise input an appropriate authentication key after every instance of requesting transfer of one or more medical files. Although such embodiments may be more cumbersome for the patient and or user and a user may also lose the one or more authentication keys such embodiments can be safer in that the one or more authentication keys are never actually stored in the user access point system. Therefore even if a user and or patient loses or misplaces a user access point system a third party cannot use the user access point system to request transfer of one or more medical files.

In certain embodiments the user access point system displays or otherwise asks the patient and or user one or more pre selected questions as an additional measure to verify the identity of the patient and or user and to authenticate the transfer request. For example at block the user access point system can display one or more questions pertaining to personal information of the patient and or user. In some embodiments the patient and or user previously selected and or answered the questions which are now stored in the main server system and or user access point system. In some embodiments the patient and or user inputs answers to the displayed questions and the answers are sent from the user access point system to the main server for verification by comparing the answers to those that are pre stored in the main server system. In other embodiments the user access point system compares the inputted answers to those stored in the user access point system and sends a verification message to the main server system if there is a sufficient match.

At block the main server system can initiate transfer of the one or more medical files from the source facility to the destination facility. For example in some embodiments the main server system can generate and send an electronic communication to the source facility to send the requested one or more medical files to the destination facility. In certain embodiments the main server system can generate and send an electronic communication to the destination facility to receive the requested one or more medical files from the source facility. In some embodiments the source facility can send the requested one or more medical files based on the instructions from the main server system at block . Similarly the destination facility can receive the requested one or more medical files based on the instructions from the main server system at block .

In some embodiments upon receiving instructions from the main server to transfer the requested one or more medical files a computing system of the source facility displays the transfer request to a film librarian of the source facility. In certain embodiments the film librarian can review the request match the patient identifier with the patient s name locate any file s that satisfy the criteria review the located file s for verification locate a release form s approve or deny the request based one or more of the above and or send the approval or denial to the main server system. In some embodiments the film librarian can perform additional functions or a subset of the functions above. In other embodiments once the source facility verifies the patient s identity in person and or gives an authentication key to the patient any subsequent transfer requests from that patient that utilizes the authentication key for medical file s located at the same source facility are processed automatically without a film librarian s input.

It is envisioned that certain patients will want to hide their patient identification numbers from various medical facilities because certain patients may have concerns about privacy issues and or misuse of the patient s patient identification number related medical files or the like. For example if a person at hospital A knows a patient s confidential patient identification number at hospital B that person may be able to use the patient s patient identification number for nefarious purposes.

To guard against such scenarios it can be advantageous to mask a patient identifier used by one medical facility so that the patient identifier is not apparent to another medical facility. For example when a medical file s is transferred from a source facility to a destination facility it can be advantageous for safety reasons if the destination facility does not have direct access to the patient identifier used by the source facility. It can also be advantageous if the source facility does not have direct access to the patient identifier used by the destination facility. Accordingly in some embodiments the patient identifier used by the source facility and or the destination facility is masked or covered such that the patient identifier of one facility is not clearly disclosed to another facility. In some embodiments a patient identifier used by a source facility and or destination facility is masked using a unique user identifier that is assigned and or used by a main server system to identify the patient.

In certain embodiments a user access point system generates and sends a transfer request to a main server system based on the patient and or user s request. The transfer request sent by the user access point system to the main server system can comprise a first patient identifier used by a source medical facility where the one or more medical files requested for transfer are located to identify the patient. The transfer request sent by the user access point system to the main server system can also comprise a second patient identifier used by a destination medical facility where the one or more medical files are requested to be transferred to identify the patient.

In some embodiments the main server locates identifies and or generates a unique user identifier based on the received transfer request at block . In certain embodiments the unique user identifier is different from the first and or second patient identifiers used by the source and destination facilities to identify the patient. The unique user identifier can be preselected for the particular patient and or user by the main server system and or one or more client server systems. In some embodiments the main server comprises a database of the first and second patient identifiers for future reconciliation. In other embodiments the main server comprises a database of all known patient identifiers related to a patient for future reconciliation.

Based on the received transfer request the main server system can in some embodiments generate and send an electronic communication to the source facility at block to transfer the requested one or more medical files to the destination facility. In certain embodiments the electronic communication to the source medical facility can comprise the first patient identifier used by the source medical facility to identify the patient and the user identifier used by the main server system to identify the patient. In certain embodiments the electronic communication to the source medical facility does not comprise the second patient identifier used by the destination medical facility to identify the patient. In some embodiments the electronic communication to the source medical facility also comprises instructions to the source facility to replace the first patient identifier in the requested one or more medical files with the user identifier before transmitting the one or more medical files to the destination facility.

In some embodiments upon receiving instructions from the main server to transfer the requested one or more medical files a computing system of the source facility displays the transfer request to a film librarian of the source facility. In certain embodiments the film librarian can review the request match the patient identifier with the patient s name locate any file s that satisfy the criteria review the located file s for verification locate a release form s approve or deny the request based one or more of the above and or send the approval or denial to the main server system. In some embodiments the film librarian can perform additional functions or a subset of the functions above. In other embodiments transfer requests are processed automatically at the source facility without a film librarian s input.

Similarly based on the received transfer request the main server system can in some embodiments generate and send an electronic communication to the destination facility at block to receive the requested one or more medical files from the source facility. In certain embodiments the electronic communication to the destination medical facility can comprise the second patient identifier used by the destination medical facility to identify the patient and the user identifier used by the main server system to identify the patient. In certain embodiments the electronic communication to the destination medical facility does not comprise the first patient identifier used by the source medical facility to identify the patient. In some embodiments the electronic communication to the destination medical facility also comprises instructions to the destination facility to replace the user identifier in the requested one or more medical files with the second patient identifier after receiving the one or more medical files from the source facility.

In some embodiments the source medical facility at block replaces the first patient identifier in the requested one or more medical files with the user identifier and sends the one or more medical files to the destination facility at block . In some embodiments the one or more medical files sent by the source facility to the destination facility are not clearly marked or labeled with the first patient identifier in the header and or body portions of the one or more files.

In certain embodiments the destination medical facility at block receives the one or more medical files from the source facility. In some embodiments the destination facility receives the one or more medical files based on the instructions received from the main server system. In certain embodiments the destination facility replaces the user identifier in the one or more medical files received from the source facility with the second patient identifier that is used by the destination facility to identify the patient. In some embodiments one or more user identifiers in the header and or body portions of the one or more medical files are replaced with the second identifier.

When a patient visits a particular medical facility for a first time the patient may want to transfer one or more medical files from another medical facility to save time cost and or to provide prior medical history among other reasons. Accordingly in certain embodiments it can be advantageous to authorize and or initiate transfer of one or more medical files from a source facility upon check in at a destination medical facility. For example in some embodiments a user access point system can display a unique code that can be scanned into the destination medical facility s computing system to initiate transfer of one or more medical files from a source medical facility to the destination medical facility.

In some embodiments the user access point system generates and sends an electronic communication to the main server system at block based on the received request to transfer one or more files from the source facility to the destination facility. The electronic communication can comprise for example a list of the one or more files requested for transfer and their location s . The one or more files can be located at more than one source medical facility in some embodiments.

In certain embodiments the main server system generates and sends a unique code to the user access point system based on the received request at block . The generated unique code can be configured to function as a reference for a list of the one or more medical files that were requested for transfer and their locations. In some embodiments the generated unique code can be a linear barcode a two dimensional matrix barcode three dimensional barcode QR code or any other code or item that can be inputted into a computing system.

In some embodiments the patient and or user can instruct the user access point system to display the unique code received from the main server system at block . When the patient and or user goes to the destination medical facility the patient and or user can scan in or otherwise input the displayed unique code into one or more computing systems of the destination medical facility at block . For example the patient user and or personnel at the destination medical facility can scan in the unique code displayed on the patient and or user s user access point system using a scanner of the destination medical facility. In some embodiments the scanner can be connected to one or more computing systems of the destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments the client server system and or other computing system of the destination facility generates and sends an authentication message to the main server system at block based on the inputted unique code. In some embodiments the electronic communication sent to the main server system comprises the scanned unique code. In certain embodiments the main server receives the scanned unique code and verifies the unique code. For example the main server system can compare the scanned unique code to the unique code that the main server generated for the particular user and or patient.

If the unique code is verified the main server in some embodiments can initiate transfer of the one or more medical files from the source medical facility to the destination medical facility. For example the main server system can generate and send an electronic communication to the source medical facility to send the requested one or more medical files to the destination medical facility. The main server system can also generate and send an electronic communication to the destination medical facility to receive the requested one or more medical files from the source medical facility.

In some embodiments upon receiving instructions from the main server to transfer the requested one or more medical files a computing system of the source facility displays the transfer request to a film librarian of the source facility. In certain embodiments the film librarian can review the request match the patient identifier with the patient s name locate any file s that satisfy the criteria review the located file s for verification locate a release form s approve or deny the request based one or more of the above and or send the approval or denial to the main server system. In some embodiments the film librarian can perform additional functions or a subset of the functions above. In other embodiments transfer requests are processed automatically at the source facility without a film librarian s input.

In some embodiments the source facility sends the requested one or more medical files to the destination facility at block based on the main server system s instructions. Similarly in certain embodiments the destination facility receives the requested one or more medical files from the source facility at block based on the main server s instructions.

Generally when a patient visits a particular medical facility for a first time the patient needs to fill out a questionnaire and or information sheet with the patient s information. Accordingly in certain embodiments it can be advantageous to expedite this process by an automated system. is a process flow diagram of an embodiment for automatically initiating transfer of patient information from a main server system to a destination medical facility upon check in at the destination medical facility.

The process can begin at block when a patient and or user inputs patient information into the system. In some embodiments patient information can be inputted via a user access point system. In certain embodiments a patient and or user can input his or her personal information for example sex age blood type known health conditions and or medical history or the like. The user access point system itself in some embodiments can store the inputted information. Alternatively or concurrently the user access point system can send the inputted information to the main server system at block . In certain embodiments the main server receives the inputted patient information and stores the patient information in an electronic database at block .

In some embodiments the main server system generates and sends a unique code to the user access point system at block . The unique can be configured to function as a reference and or key to the patient information stored in the main server system. In some embodiments the unique code can be a linear barcode a two dimensional matrix barcode three dimensional barcode QR code or any other code or item that can be inputted into a computing system. In certain embodiments the user access point system can be configured to display the unique code at block .

In certain embodiments the unique code that is displayed on the user access point system can be scanned in or otherwise inputted to one or more computing systems at the destination medical facility at block . For example the patient user and or personnel at the destination medical facility can scan in the unique code displayed on the patient and or user s user access point system using a scanner of the destination medical facility. In some embodiments the scanner can be connected to one or more computing systems of the destination medical facility.

In certain embodiments when a patient and or user scans or otherwise inputs the unique code into the one or more computing systems of a destination medical facility the one or more computing systems of the destination medical facility can be configured to download and or store the patient s information. For example upon scanning or otherwise inputting the unique code the one or more computing systems and or client server system of the destination medical facility can send the unique code to the main server system for verification at block . For example the main server system can compare the scanned unique code to the unique code that the main server generated for the particular user and or patient. If verified in some embodiments the main server system can locate patient information related to that unique code and electronically send the information to a client server system of the destination medical facility at block .

Given the ease and efficiency of transferring medical files using the systems and methods described herein it can be important to ensure that personal medical files are not fraudulently transferred without the patient s knowledge. Accordingly in some embodiments it can be advantageous to implement a fraud protection scheme configured to detect non traditional transfer requests and or alert patients of such activity. is a process flow diagram of an embodiment for detecting suspicious activity for preventing fraudulent transfer of medical file s .

The process can begin at block when the main server receives a request to transfer one or more medical files of a patient from a source facility to a destination facility. In some embodiments upon receiving every request the main server can be configured to access the transfer history database to conduct a fraud detection analysis. In certain embodiments the main server can be configured to access the transfer history database and conduct a fraud detection analysis only for a pre determined set of patients or users. For example the main server can be configured to conduct a fraud detection analysis only for suspicious accounts and or high profile patients. Accounts can be flagged as suspicious if the number of transfer requests in a set period of time is or has been above a pre determined threshold value and or if the geographic diversity of destination facilities for past requests have been above a pre determined threshold. Geographic diversity can refer to the location of destination facilities that previous transfer requests involved. For example if the past ten file transfer requests were for transferring files to different destination facilities all over the country then the distributive pattern can be a trigger for suspicious activity.

In some embodiments once the fraud detection analysis begins the main server determines the number of transfer requests associated with the patient s account in a set period of time at block . If the number of transfer requests per time is at or above a threshold value then the main server can be configured to lock the account at and deny any further transfer requests for that account. In some embodiments the main server can be configured to send a confirmation message e mail text message or telephone call to the patient at block notifying the account lock and suspicious activity. The threshold value can be pre set by the main server in some embodiments. In other embodiments the threshold value can be customized by the patient at an earlier point in time. For example in certain embodiments a patient can customize the threshold value when setting up the patient s account for the first time.

If the number of transfer requests per time is below a threshold value the main server can be configured to determine whether the geographic diversity of destination facilities for the request alone or in combination with past requests is above a threshold value at block . If the geographic diversity is at or above a threshold then the main server can be configured to lock the account at and deny any further transfer requests for that account. In some embodiments the main server can be configured to send a confirmation message e mail text message or telephone call to the patient at block notifying the account lock and suspicious activity. The threshold value can be pre set by the main server in some embodiments. In other embodiments the threshold value can be customized by the patient at an earlier point in time. For example in certain embodiments a patient can customize the threshold value when setting up the patient s account for the first time.

In some embodiments if the geographic diversity of destination facilities and or number of requests per period of time are below threshold values then the main server instructs transfer of the requested medical file s from a source facility to a destination facility at block . The fraud protection process or one or more steps thereof can be implemented in combination with any of the systems and or methods described herein.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment. The headings used herein are for the convenience of the reader only and are not meant to limit the scope of the inventions or claims.

Although the embodiments of the inventions have been disclosed in the context of a certain preferred embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present inventions extend beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or uses of the inventions and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. In addition while a number of variations of the inventions have been shown and described in detail other modifications which are within the scope of the inventions will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art based upon this disclosure. It is also contemplated that various combinations or subcombinations of the specific features and aspects of the embodiments may be made and still fall within one or more of the inventions. Accordingly it should be understood that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be combine with or substituted for one another in order to form varying modes of the disclosed inventions. Thus it is intended that the scope of the present inventions herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above.

