---

title: Optically assist-triggered wide bandgap thyristors having positive temperature coefficients
abstract: A thyristor includes a first conductivity type semiconductor layer, a first conductivity type carrier injection layer on the semiconductor layer, a second conductivity type drift layer on the carrier injection layer, a first conductivity type base layer on the drift layer, and a second conductivity type anode region on the base layer. The thickness and doping concentration of the carrier injection layer are selected to reduce minority carrier injection by the carrier injection layer in response to an increase in operating temperature of the thyristor. A cross-over current density at which the thyristor shifts from a negative temperature coefficient of forward voltage to a positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage is thereby reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171977&OS=09171977&RS=09171977
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09171977
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120501
---
The present application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 498 049 filed Jun. 17 2011 entitled Optically Assist Triggered Wide Bandgap Thyristors the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DAAD19 01 C 0067 awarded by The United States Army Research Laboratories. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This inventive concepts disclosed herein relate to microelectronic devices and circuits and more particularly to devices and circuits including power switching devices such as optically triggered thyristors.

A thyristor is a four layer latching switching device having an anode and a cathode for current flow and a gate for switching the device from a blocking state to a conducting state and vice versa. A control signal applied to the gate causes the device to latch into a conductive state in which current can flow freely between the anode and cathode of the device. The device remains in the conductive state even after the control signal is removed. A second control signal opposite in polarity to the first control signal switches the device back into the off or blocking state. The design of optically triggered wide bandgap thyristors is generally known in the art. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 911 entitled Large Area Silicon Carbide Devices assigned to the assignee of the present application describes the design and manufacture of optically triggered silicon carbide thyristors. U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 911 is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

Other silicon carbide thyristors are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 539 217 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully. The thyristors described in the 217 patent are three terminal devices having a gate and one of an anode or a cathode on a first side of the device and the other of the anode and the cathode on the opposite side of the device. Such silicon carbide thyristors may exhibit improved power handling capabilities over similar silicon thyristors.

Light activated silicon thyristors have been utilized in high power applications. For example optically triggered parallel lateral thyristors are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 779 126 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully. Light activated i.e. optically triggered thyristors having an integrated light source and a silicon carbide active layer have been described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 663 580 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully. Other optically triggered wide bandgap devices are illustrated in U.S. Publication No. 2006 0261876 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully.

A thyristor according to some embodiments includes a semiconductor layer having a first conductivity type and a first doping concentration a carrier injection layer on the semiconductor layer the carrier injection layer having the first conductivity type and a second doping concentration that is lower than the first doping concentration a drift layer on the carrier injection layer the drift layer having the second conductivity type a base layer having the first conductivity type on the drift layer and an anode region having the second conductivity type on the base layer.

A thickness of the carrier injection layer and the second doping concentration are selected to reduce minority carrier injection by the carrier injection layer in response to an increase in operating temperature of the thyristor.

A cross over current density at which the thyristor shifts from a negative temperature coefficient of forward voltage to a positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage is less than 100 A cm. In some embodiments the cross over current density may be less than 75 A cm and in some embodiments the cross over current density may be between 50 A cmand 75 A cm.

The thyristor may further include a buffer layer having the second conductivity type between the carrier injection layer and the drift layer. The carrier injection layer and the buffer layer may form a p n junction. The buffer layer has a third doping concentration that is higher than a doping concentration of the drift layer.

The base layer may include a main base layer and an assistant base layer that is isolated from the main base layer. The thyristor may further include an assistant anode region on the assistant base layer and having the second conductivity type and a conductive interconnect between the assistant anode region and the main base layer.

The semiconductor layer the carrier injection layer the drift layer the base layer and the anode region may include silicon carbide.

Some embodiments provide a silicon carbide based thyristor having a positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage at a forward current density less than 100 A cm.

A cross over current density at which the silicon carbide based thyristor may shift from a negative temperature coefficient of forward voltage to a positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage is less than 100 A cm. In some embodiments the cross over current density may be less than 75 A cm and in some embodiments the cross over current density may be between 50 A cmand 75 A cm.

An optically triggered thyristor according to some embodiments includes a primary thyristor including a base layer and a plurality of optically triggered assistant thyristors defined in the base layer and configured to supply current to the base layer of the primary thyristor in response to an optical signal. The optically triggered thyristor may be configured to sustain at least 10 kV in reverse blocking mode and has a positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage at a forward current density less than 100 A cm.

An optically triggered silicon carbide thyristor according to some embodiments includes a silicon carbide layer having a first conductivity type and a first doping concentration a first silicon carbide buffer layer on the semiconductor layer the first silicon carbide buffer layer having the first conductivity type and a second doping concentration that is lower than the first doping concentration a second silicon carbide buffer layer on the first buffer layer the second silicon carbide buffer layer having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and forming a p n junction with the first silicon carbide buffer layer a silicon carbide drift layer on the second buffer layer the silicon carbide drift layer having the second conductivity type and

a silicon carbide base layer having the first conductivity type on the silicon carbide drift layer. The silicon carbide base layer is divided into a main base layer and at least one assistant base layer that is isolated from the main base layer. A first silicon carbide anode region having the second conductivity type is on the main base layer a second silicon carbide anode region having the second conductivity type is on the assistant base layer and a conductive interconnect conductively connects the second anode region and the main base layer. A thickness of the first silicon carbide buffer layer and the second doping concentration are selected to reduce minority carrier injection across the p n junction with the second silicon carbide buffer layer in response to an increase in operating temperature of the optically triggered thyristor.

It is noted that aspects of the invention described with respect to one embodiment may be incorporated in a different embodiments although not specifically described relative thereto. That is all embodiments and or features of any embodiments can be combined in any way and or combination. These and other objects and or aspects of the present invention are explained in detail in the specification set forth below.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments of the invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The invention is described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first and second are used herein to describe various regions layers and or sections these regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second region layer or section and similarly a second region layer or section may be termed a first region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompasses both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this disclosure and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As used herein the term Group III nitride refers to those semiconducting compounds formed between nitrogen and the elements in Group III of the periodic table usually aluminum Al gallium Ga and or indium In . The term also refers to ternary and quaternary compounds such as AlGaN and AlInGaN.

Thyristors according to embodiments of the present invention may be formed of silicon carbide having a polytype of 3C 2H 4H 6H and 15R or from any of the various Group III nitride materials useful for fabricating electronic devices. In the illustrated embodiments the n and n regions as well as the p and p regions are designated and to symbolize different doping concentration levels respectively of the same conductivity type material in a manner well understood to those of ordinary skill in this art. As used herein the and designations do not necessarily imply that a material is degenerate on one hand or semi insulating on the other. The p type silicon carbide may be doped for example with aluminum or boron and the n type silicon carbide may be doped for example with nitrogen or phosphorous. P type nitrides may be doped for example with magnesium while n type nitrides may be doped for example with silicon.

In an optically triggered thyristor light from a light source such as an LED or laser diode device is impinged directly on the base region of the thyristor to generate electron hole pairs. In a typical optically triggered silicon carbide thyristor a light source having a high power level is required in order to switch the thyristor to a conducting state i.e. turn the thyristor on . The turn on time which relates to the rate of change of current as a function of time di dt in such devices is typically poor. Moreover to form a thyristor having a high blocking voltage a thick drift layer is required which may reduce the current gain of the bottom transistor portion of the thyristor. As a result the thyristor needs an even higher optical power level to turn on.

Conventional SiC thyristors exhibit a negative temperature coefficient of the forward voltage drop due to the enhanced conductivity modulation in the drift layer at high temperatures. For power system applications it is preferred for the devices to have a positive temperature coefficient for ease of paralleling the devices.

Assume the device is heated to the high temperature 300 degrees C. and operated at a current density of J

Now consider the device operating at a current density J Jxo at the low temperature 25 degrees C. this may occur for example if the current in a cool running diode spikes to J . Due to the high current density the temperature of the device may increase from the low temperature to the high temperature. For a given current density J the forward voltage of the device will increase in response to an increased temperature. Thus the temperature coefficient of forward voltage is positive for current densities above the cross over current density Jxo.

Devices that have positive temperature coefficients of forward voltage can be successfully operated in parallel because the positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage provides a stabilizing effect on the devices. For example if one of the devices heats to a higher temperature than the other devices the forward voltage of the hotter device will increase which can reduce current through the device causing it to cool.

In contrast devices that have negative temperature coefficients of forward voltage can experience so called thermal runaway when operated in parallel. For example if one of the devices heats to a higher temperature than the other devices the forward voltage of the hotter device will decrease which can increase current through the device causing it to heat even more and potentially leading to thermal failure.

Referring to A and B a thyristor includes a substrate having a first conductivity type and a drift layer having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type on the substrate . A base layer having the first conductivity type is on the drift layer. In some embodiments the first conductivity type maybe n type and the second conductivity type may be p type in other embodiments the first conductivity type may be p type and the second conductivity type may be n type.

In particular embodiments the substrate may include an 8 off axis n 4H SiC substrate having a thickness of between about 59 microns and 400 microns and a doping concentration between about 5E18 cmand 5E19 cm. The drift layer may have a thickness of between about 50 microns and 300 microns and a doping concentration between about 1E13 cmand 5E14 cm. In particular embodiments the drift layer may have a thickness of about 90 microns and a doping concentration less than about 2E14 cm.

In some embodiments the base layer may have a thickness of between about 0.2 and 3 microns and a doping concentration between about 1E17 cmand 2E18 cm. In particular embodiments the base layer may have a thickness of about 2.5 microns and a doping concentration of about 2E17 cm. In other embodiments the base layer may have a doping concentration of about 1E17 cm.

A first buffer layer having the first conductivity type and a second buffer layer having the second conductivity type may be provided between the substrate and the drift layer . The first and second buffer layers may be doped more heavily than the drift layer. The first and second buffer layers form a p n junction .

In a conventional device forward operation minority carriers are injected into the drift layer which can cause conductivity modulation in the drift layer. In conventional devices this can lead to an increased temperature coefficient crossover point Jxo.

In some embodiments the first buffer layer may have a thickness of between about 1 micron and 20 microns and a doping concentration between about 5E17 cmand 5E18 cm. In particular embodiments the first buffer layer may have a thickness of about 3 microns and a doping concentration of about 5E16 cm.

The first buffer layer plays two roles in device operation. One is to act as the minority carrier injection layer to the drift layer to modulate the conductivity of the drift layer another is to be a resistive layer if the thickness and doping are designed properly such that the resistance of the first buffer layer increases at high temperature so that minority carrier injection is reduced at higher temperatures. In particular the first buffer layer may have a thickness and doping such that the resistance of the first buffer layer is sufficient to cause the thyristor to have a positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage.

In some embodiments the second buffer layer may have a thickness of between about 1 micron and 10 microns and a doping concentration between about 1E16 cmand 1E17 cm. In particular embodiments the second buffer layer may have a thickness of about 2.5 microns and a doping concentration of about 7E16 cm. In other embodiments the second buffer layer may have a thickness of about 4 microns.

The base layer is divided into a first base portion M in the main thyristor M and a second base portion A in the assistant thyristor A. The first base portion M in the main thyristor M and a second base portion A in the assistant thyristor A are isolated from one another for example by a trench that extends through the base layer and into the drift layer . The trench may be filled with a dielectric layer that may include silicon dioxide and or silicon nitride for example.

One or more doped regions may be provided in the drift layer beneath the trench . The doped regions may extend about 0.5 microns into the drift layer and may be doped at a doping concentration of about 5E18 cm. The doped regions provide field protection at the corners of the trench in reverse blocking mode.

The main thyristor M includes a first anode mesa M on the first base portion M of the base layer while the assistant thyristor A includes a second anode mesa A on the on the second base portion A of the base layer . The second anode mesa A is spaced apart from the first anode mesa M on the surface of the base layer .

An anode contact is formed on the first anode mesa M in the main thyristor M. A heavily doped base contact region is provided in the first base portion M of the main thyristor M. The base contact region may have a doping concentration between about 1E19 and 5E20 cm and in particular embodiments may have a doping concentration of about 5E19 cm.

A conductive interconnect electrically connects the second anode mesa A in the assistant thyristor A to the base contact region . In particular the conductive interconnect which may include a metal such as aluminum or other conductive material may contact the second anode mesa A and extend across the dielectric layer to contact the base contact region in the first base portion M of the main thyristor M. The conductive interconnect may form ohmic contacts with both the second anode mesa A and the base contact region .

The assistant thyristor A includes an optical gate region in which a portion of the second base portion A may be exposed to light from a light source. In some embodiments the optical gate region may have dimensions of about 2.2 mm 2.2 mm.

An anode contact is formed on the first anode mesa M in the main thyristor M and a cathode contact may be formed on the substrate . An edge termination region is provided at the periphery of the device as shown in . The edge termination region can include one or more floating guard rings field plates junction termination extension JTE regions or other conventional edge termination structures.

When the assist thyristor A is in the off state i.e. no current is flowing between the anode and cathode of the device no base current is supplied to the main thyristor M and the main thyristor M stays in the off state.

When sufficiently energetic light is applied to the assistant thyristor A electron hole pairs are generated in the second base portion A of the base layer . If sufficient carriers are generated in the second base portion A the energy barrier at the junction between the drift layer and the second base portion A will decrease causing the junction between the second base portion A and the drift layer to become forward biased which turns the assistant thyristor A on and permits a flow of electrical current between the second anode mesa A and the cathode of the device.

This current is injected into the first base portion M of the main thyristor M via the conductive interconnect and the base contact region causing the main thyristor M to turn on in a similar manner. Current may then flow between the anode and the cathode of the device .

As illustrated in a plurality of assistant thyristors A may be provided within a thyristor device according to some embodiments. The pattern of assistant thyristors A in the embodiments illustrated in represent one possible arrangement although other arrangements are possible.

In some embodiments the assistant thyristors A may be distributed uniformly throughout a main thyristor region M. Such an arrangement may allow the thyristor to retain acceptable voltage dV dt characteristics. Moreover by providing a plurality of optically triggered assistant thyristors improved turn on current characteristics can be obtained.

Furthermore in some embodiments an optical thyristor with a large blocking voltage can be obtained. In particular a thyristor having a blocking voltage in excess of 10 kV can be obtained. In further embodiments a thyristor having a blocking voltage in excess of 12 kV can be obtained and in still further embodiments a thyristor having a blocking voltage in excess of 15 kV can be obtained in a device having a chip size in excess of 1 cm.

Such high blocking voltages may be particularly useful in high power transmission and distribution systems in which aggregate blocking voltages in excess of 100 kV are required. Using thyristors with blocking voltages in excess of 10 kV can significantly reduce the number of devices needed to provide such high voltage blocking ability.

A ultraviolet UV light source may provide light with sufficient energy to cause the assist thyristor A to conduct. In some embodiments the active semiconductor layers of the main thyristor M and the assist thyristor A include a wide bandgap material such as silicon carbide SiC gallium nitride GaN or another Group III nitride material. In order to induce the formation of electron hole pairs in a wide bandgap material light such as ultraviolet UV light with energy in excess of the material bandgap may be directed into the material. For silicon carbide light having an energy of about 3.25 eV or greater i.e. a wavelength of about 380 nm or less may be used. For gallium nitride which has a smaller bandgap than SiC light of a correspondingly larger wavelength may be used. UV light may be generated by a UV light emitting diode or laser diode or other suitable light source. UV light emitting diodes are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 664 560 entitled Ultraviolet Light Emitting Diode which is assigned to the assignee of the present application. U.S. Pat. No. 6 664 560 is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. The UV light source may be formed integral to the thyristor packaged together with the thyristor as part of a hybrid or provided as a separate element.

In some embodiments the polarities of each layer can be opposite for thyristors made on p type substrates or epitaxial layers.

Silicon carbide thyristors having a device area greater than 1 cmaccording to some embodiments may be capable of blocking voltages in excess of 10 kV. Silicon carbide devices according to some embodiments may have blocking voltages in excess of 12 kV and in some cases in excess of 15 kV. In particular silicon carbide based thyristors according to some embodiments may employ optically triggered assistant thyristors that are formed integrally to the transistor.

Moreover a silicon carbide thyristor according to some embodiments may include a resistive buffer layer between the substrate and the drift layer that also forms a p n junction and functions as a carrier injection layer. In particular the resistive buffer layer may have a conductivity type that is the same as the substrate but may be doped at a lower doping concentration so that the layer is more resistive. The resistive buffer layer may further form a p n junction with a second buffer layer that has the same conductivity type as the drift layer but that is doped more highly than the drift layer .

By including such a resistive buffer layer the minority injection coefficient may be reduced at high temperature which may cause the device to have a positive temperature coefficient of the forward voltage drop at a lower temperature. In contrast U.S. Pat. No. 5 831 287 which is incorporated herein by reference uses a purely resistive extra layer to achieve a positive temperature coefficient but does not achieve this by reducing minority carrier injection. As discussed herein according to some embodiments a positive temperature coefficient can also be achieved by adjusting reducing the minority injection coefficient at high temperature. This can be accomplished by inclusion of a relatively thick and moderately doped buffer layer .

Anode current density versus anode voltage was simulated at a low temperature of 25 C. and a high temperature of 300 C. The results are shown in as curves 25 C. and 300 C. . The cross over point Jxo which represents the current density at which the device transitions from a negative temperature coefficient of forward voltage to a positive temperature coefficient of forward voltage is less than 100 A cm. In particular the cross over point Jxo may be less than about 75 A cm and may be between about 50 and 75 A cm.

Minority carrier injection in the test structure was also simulated. The results of this simulation are shown in which is a graph of minority carrier concentration at an anode voltage of 5 V as a function of position in the device for low temperature operation curve and high temperature operation curve taken along the cutline shown in . The test structure is shown above the graph for reference.

As shown in the minority carrier electron concentration in the drift layer of the device near the substrate is significantly reduced at the elevated temperature.

Many different embodiments have been disclosed herein in connection with the above description and the drawings. It will be understood that it would be unduly repetitious and obfuscating to literally describe and illustrate every combination and subcombination of these embodiments. Accordingly all embodiments can be combined in any way and or combination and the present specification including the drawings shall be construed to constitute a complete written description of all combinations and subcombinations of the embodiments described herein and of the manner and process of making and using them and shall support claims to any such combination or subcombination.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

