---

title: Methods and systems for creating an advertising database
abstract: Systems and methods for applications of orthogonal corpus indexing (OCI), such as selecting ad words for purchase and improving visibility of web pages in search engines, are described. In one aspect, the systems and methods described herein employ OCI for creating an advertising database. The described systems and methods process an information database using orthogonal corpus indexing and a seed topic to derive keywords. The described systems and methods query a search engine with a first keyword of the keywords, and process the provided results page to determine content relating to a classification such as an advertiser, an advertisement, an ad word, and an advertising link page. The described systems and methods insert the determined content with respective classification in the advertising database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812559&OS=08812559&RS=08812559
owner: SEMMX, Inc.
number: 08812559
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 108 569 filed May 16 2011 entitled Orthogonal corpus index for ad buying and search engine optimization and naming Henry B. Kon and George W. Burch as inventors which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 334 774 filed on May 14 2010 entitled Orthogonal corpus index for ad buying and search engine optimization and naming Henry B. Kon and George W. Burch as inventors and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 780 305 filed May 14 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 958 153 entitled Systems and methods for employing an orthogonal corpus for documenting indexing and naming Henry B. Kon and George W. Burch as inventors which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 707 394 filed Feb. 16 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 720 799 entitled Systems and methods for employing an orthogonal corpus for documenting indexing and naming Henry B. Kon and George W. Burch as inventors which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 548 796 filed Apr. 13 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 275 061 entitled Systems and methods for employing an orthogonal corpus for documenting indexing and naming Henry B. Kon and George W. Burch as inventors which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 129 103 filed Apr. 13 1999 entitled Systems and methods for employing an orthogonal corpus for document indexing and naming Henry B. Kon and George W. Burch as inventors the contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Tens of billions of dollars are spent annually on keyword advertising. Ad words are priced according to their demand by advertisers. General and commonly used ad phrases such as Camera cost more than related terms such as Lens or Pixel or Matrix Metering . These less common terms may actually be a more effective triangulation into a new or better demographic with more or cheaper ad click through rates. However it is sometimes difficult to identify relevant related terms and even more difficult to quantitatively assess in advance the cost effectiveness of advertisements based on these terms. The task of keyword selection and optimization is not a trivial one and a managed campaign around automatically derived ad words is a subject of this disclosure.

Another subject of this disclosure is the task of choosing content for a web page in order to improve its visibility in search engines. Visitors to a web page and subsequent revenues from such visitors are often determined by the web page s rank in a search engine. Building web pages with a higher position closer to the top of a search result page is sometimes referred to as SEO Search Engine Optimization . Such optimization of a web page may involve editing and or adding relevant content to attract the targeted audience. However obtaining such content and deciding whether to add the content to the web page is a formidable task in so much that SEO is an industry in itself. The added content needs to be readily comprehensible as well as relevant to visitors to the web page. There remains a need for systems and methods for determining such relevant content to add to a web page and improve its visibility in search engine results.

Marketers purchase ad words for virtually any device or service imaginable. In one aspect the systems and methods described herein employ orthogonal corpus indexing OCI to select ad words for purchase. Advertisers pay search engines for placement of their advertising along side results in the search results page when a given word or phrase appears in a user s search query. Such words or phrases are sometimes referred to as ad words. The systems and methods described herein inter alia enable automated selection of related and discriminating terms identifying keywords that increase the ratio of ads clicked through to money spent on keyword buying. This may be accomplished with the aid of a database processed using OCI. An OCI database provides a broad deep topically organized term space for automated and assisted ad word purchasing and for connecting users to final target web pages.

In another aspect the systems and methods described herein relate to a method for selecting ad words for purchase. The method includes processing an information database using OCI and one or more seed topics to derive candidate ad words. The method further includes receiving estimated upper and lower cost per click CPC values for respective candidate ad words from e.g. an ad word traffic estimator such as the Google AdWords traffic estimator provided by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. A CPC value represent cost for one click on an advertisement related to an ad word. The method further includes computing estimated upper and lower marketing break even MBE values for the respective candidate ad words based on their CPC values. The estimated MBE values represent the volume of desired actions e.g. a purchase necessary for the advertisement costs to break even or have sales revenue equal to advertising costs. The method further includes computing an average MBE value for respective candidate ad words based on their respective upper and lower MBE values. The method further includes selecting ad words from the candidate ad words as a function of their respective average MBE values.

In some embodiments the method includes computing a global MBE average across all candidate ad words. The method further includes selecting ad words from the candidate ad words that have average MBE values below the global MBE value. In some embodiments the method includes receiving measured upper and lower CPC values for a selected ad word based on performance data for an advertisement deployed based on the selected ad word. The method further includes computing a measured average MBE value for the selected ad word and recommending discontinuation of advertisements based on the ad word if the ad word s measured average MBE value is higher than a given threshold e.g. the global average MBE described above. Having an average MBE value higher than the global average MBE may indicate that the ad word may not be effective in reaching the advertiser s target audience.

In yet another aspect the systems and methods described herein employ orthogonal corpus indexing OCI to generate an advertiser database also referred to as a competitive marketing database. By querying search engines with various advertising keywords information regarding advertisements shown in response to the keywords can be built into a database. Such a database includes information that can be organized per advertiser. For example the database may enable construction of an index of topically organized keywords per advertiser. Fine grained classification of ad and web content may reveal the topic space in which advertisers buy their ad words. The database may be further augmented by processing advertisers web sites and other information such as public filings products description pages and annual reports and inserting this information into the advertiser database. Such an advertising database may facilitate comprehensive analysis of advertisements and related content from competitors and help an advertiser buy ad words and create advertisements that differentiate themselves from competitor advertisements and are therefore more effective and better focused to their target audience. In some cases the advertising database may help an advertiser mimic competitor keywords in order to draw traffic from competitor web pages to their web pages.

In yet another aspect the systems and methods described herein relate to a method for creating an advertising database. The method includes processing an information database using orthogonal corpus indexing and a seed topic to derive keywords. The method further includes querying a search engine with a first keyword of the keywords and processing the provided results page to determine content relating to a classification such as an advertiser an advertisement an ad word and an advertising link page. The method further includes inserting the determined content with respective classification in the advertising database. In some embodiments the method further includes receiving content related to an advertiser such as the advertiser s web page a public filing a product description or an annual report. The method includes processing and classifying the received content to insert into the advertising database.

In yet another aspect the systems and methods described herein employ OCI to generate content for web pages advertisements and or other suitable Internet documents. The system may generate content for a web page to improve its page rank in a search engine. Building web pages with a higher position closer to the top of a search result page is sometimes referred to as SEO Search Engine Optimization . OCI may be used to determine content from a content database that when added to a web page improves the rank of that page in a search engine. In some embodiments the system may generate content to form a new web page. Similarly OCI may be used to determine content for an advertisement to improve its ad rank in a search engine. Analogous to page rank ad rank determines the relative position of an advertisement in advertising listings displayed by a search engine. In some embodiments the system may generate content to form a new advertisement. In some embodiments OCI may be used to generate keywords to query a search engine for related web pages. The system may extract content from web pages found in response to the search query and add the content to a web page or an advertisement. In some embodiments the keywords may be provided to a natural language text generator that can synthesize new text to add to the web page or advertisement.

In yet another aspect the systems and methods described herein relate to a method for improving the ranking in a search engine of a web page. The method includes processing a database using OCI to derive keywords relating to content in the database. The method further includes processing a web page to determine a first keyword relating to content in the web page and selecting content from the database based on the first keyword. The method further includes adding the selected content to the web page to improve search engine page rank of the web page.

In some embodiments the selected content includes text audio an image a video and or a web link. In some embodiments the web page is displayed in response to a user search query in a search engine and the first keyword is determined based on the web page and the user search query. In some embodiments the method further includes generating content based on the first keyword using a natural language text generation algorithm and adding the generated content to the web page to improve the page rank of the web page. In some embodiments the method further includes querying a search engine based on the first keyword and extracting content from web pages provided by the search engine in response to the query. The content may be added the content to the web page to improve the page rank of the web page.

In yet another aspect the systems and methods described herein relate to a method for generating content for an advertisement. The method includes processing a database using OCI to derive keywords relating to content in the database. The method further includes receiving an ad word related to the advertisement and determining a first keyword relating to the received ad word. The method further includes selecting content from the database based on the first keyword and adding the selected content to the advertisement for display.

In some embodiments the selected content includes text audio an image a video and or a web link. In some embodiments the advertisement is displayed in response to a user search query in a search engine and the first keyword is determined based on the received ad word and the user search query. In some embodiments the method further includes generating content based on the first keyword using a natural language text generation algorithm and adding the generated content to the advertisement for display. In some embodiments the method further includes querying a search engine based on the first keyword and extracting content from web pages provided by the search engine in response to the query. The content may be added to the advertisement to improve the ad rank of the advertisement in a search engine.

In yet another aspect the systems and methods described herein provide systems for document indexing and scoring of content on a computer database such as the World Wide Web. The systems generally include an orthogonal corpus that may comprise a collection of blocks of text and that may be employed to index and score textual information for applications in retrieving classifying or browsing over a set of documents.

An orthogonal corpus as the term is employed herein may be understood to encompass without being limited to any collection of blocks of text that are outlined or referenced by a table of contents topic index chapter heading or other topical indicia where each topic either stands alone or is an identified subpart subtopic of another topic forming a tree of topics and their descendant subtopics. Encyclopedias text and reference books periodicals web sites dictionaries thesauri the library of congress the Dewey decimal system and glossaries are examples of surrogates for or extenders of orthogonal corpora. A set of topics is understood as orthogonal in the sense that substantially every member topic e.g. chapter or article covers a different concept or substantially different concept than any other topic under the same ancestor topic in the tree. A topic in one practice may be assumed to include or not include its ancestor topics or underlying subtopics.

The orthogonal construction or decomposition of a corpus provides for algorithmic identification of keywords in each topic which distinguish it from its sibling cousin ancestor or descendent topics. Keywords may be employed to numerically score over an underlying pool of documents. Alternatively if more practical for a given application such as when working with a large document collection rather than individually score all documents in the collection against the keywords then a set of search words may be generated to identify a subset of candidate documents for scoring.

Parameters employed during the scoring process may relate to the identification of keywords and their refinement into a set of search words with weightings for associated document or sub document scoring. The scoring search term and keyword methods may employ conventional information retrieval techniques including the use of synonyms stemming frequency proximity stop words hyponyms and synonyms.

For purposes of clarity certain terms will now be described although the understandings set forth are not to be understood as limiting and are only provided for purposes of achieving clarity by way of providing examples. The term word as employed herein may be understood to encompass a lexical type found in a common or specialty dictionary of any language. The term phrase as employed herein may be understood to encompass any sequence of one or more words. Heretofore for simplicity we use Word to mean Word or Phrase. The term synonym group shall be understood to encompass a set of words which may be used as alternates for a given word. Each word in a synonym group has a similar or identical meaning. The term topic shall be understood to encompass textual content typically having a title having corresponding text concerning a single topic or covering a set or tree of related subtopics. The term subtopic shall be understood to encompass a block of text within a Topic. Typically a subtopic may be identified by its subtopic header or other outline indicator. In different calculation contexts subtopics may or may not be included as part of parent topics. The term word count maybe understood as an integer count of the number of times a word or a word in its synonym group occurs in a given topic or text area potentially including text in the title and headers and any text elements in that text. The term word frequency may be understood to encompass the word count in a text area divided by the number of words total in that text. A word map is a representation of textual content within a text area that is more precise than a word count. A word map may describe a word s relative location in the text its linguistic type or contexts of use its prominence indicators such as use in a title or highlighting fonts. The term orthogonal corpus may be understood to encompass a collection of topically organized information referenced by a table of contents and or index where each topic is clearly identified as a SubTopic of a topic or else stands alone. Nodes in the table of contents tree may represent topics. The information may be understood as orthogonal in the sense that a stand alone topic e.g. chapter or article covers a substantially different concept than any other stand alone topic and any subtopic expresses a substantially different concept from any other subtopic within the same parent topic. The term document may be understood to encompass formatted textual content with topic beginnings endings and marked hierarchy. A document may contain one or more topics and may include subtopics. A corpus may include one or more documents. The relationship between documents and topics is not mandated though in some embodiments each document to represent one top level topic along with its subtopics. The term discovered document may be understood to encompass a document or a set of documents such as a web site or portion of a web site which is being scored. Scoring of a discovered document may be relative to one or more corpus documents or corpus topics. In one practice scoring measures the degree of topical relevance to the corpus topics. The discovered document will often be a member of a search result set.

More particularly the systems and methods described herein include methods for processing a body of reference material to generate a directory for accessing information from a database. These methods may comprise processing the body of reference material to identify a hierarchical organization of a plurality of topics. Additionally the processes may include the step of associating with at least one of the topics a portion of the reference material and processing the assigned portion of reference material to generate a plurality of search keys representative of search strings for selecting information from the database. The process may then apply the search keys to the database to retrieve information from the database and may create an association between the at least one topic and the information retrieved from the database.

In an optional step the methods described herein may create a graphical interface that is representative of the identified hierarchical organization of a plurality of topics for allowing a user to access information retrieved from the database and having an association with the topic. Accordingly the user may be provided with a graphical interface that allows the user to activate typically by clicking with a mouse a graphical representation of a topic to identify a set of links to content such as web pages that are associated with the topic selected by the user.

In one practice processing the body of reference material includes processing a body of reference material that has been selected from the group consisting of an encyclopedia a dictionary a text book a novel a newspaper or a website. Processing the material may include identifying a hierarchical organization of a plurality of substantially orthogonal topics. This may include identifying a table of contents for the body of reference material identifying an index for the reference material identifying chapter or subchapter headings within the reference table identifying definition entries within a dictionary and other similar operations that identify different topics that occur within the reference material.

Optionally when processing a body of reference material the process may normalize the identified hierarchical organization of the plurality of topics.

In one practice when processing the assigned text the process includes a step of generating a word map that is representative of a statistical analysis of the words contained in the assigned text. Generating the word map may include performing a word count process for determining word frequency of a word within the assigned text and for employing the word frequency for determining the relevance of a word to the associated topic. Processing the assigned text for different topics may also include a step of identifying a set of key words that have an associated measure intra document orthogonality.

In an optional step processing the assigned text may include identifying a set of synonyms for extending the search keys. Further a subset of search keys may be selected that have a predetermined measure of correlation to the topic. The search keys may be applied to the database such as through an Internet search engine to discover documents that are related to the search keys. Optionally the Internet search engine may be a meta search engine.

Once documents have been discovered from the database that are related to the search keys documents may be further processed to determine their relationship to the topics associated with the search keys.

In the methods described herein creating an association between the at least one topic and the information retrieved from the database may include capturing a location pointer that is associated with the information retrieved from the database. Creating that association may include generating a data structure for the topic which allows storing location pointers that are associated with information retrieved from the database.

In another aspect the systems and methods described herein include systems for organizing a collection of documents. Such systems may comprise an orthogonal corpus of information that is arranged according to an index of topics a keyword generator for generating a set of keywords representative of a documents associated with a topic in the index of topics a scoring system for processing documents within the collection of documents to associate with at least a portion of the documents a score representative of the document s association to a particular topic and a graphical representation for depicting at least a portion of the index of topics and having respective portions of the graphical representation linked to documents associated with a respective portion of the index of topics.

In a further embodiment the systems described herein may include systems for extending the content of the document. These systems can include a parser for selecting terms within the document to be extended an orthogonal corpus of information arranged according to an index of topics a keyword generator for generating a set of key words representative of a documents association with a topic in the index of topics and a linking system for processing the documents within a collection of documents to associate with at least a portion of the document a score representative of the documents association to a particular topic and for providing the first document with links to the collection of documents for extending the content of that document.

Accordingly the systems and methods described herein may leverage the electronically stored content of the World Wide Web in an intelligent and meaningful way to provide a database of content organized under an orthogonal and hierarchical index of topics and subtopics.

Other objects of the systems and methods described herein will in part be obvious and in part be shown from the following description of the systems and methods shown herein.

To provide an overall understanding of the systems and methods described herein certain illustrative embodiments will now be described. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the systems and methods described herein can be adapted and modified to provide systems and methods suitable for other applications and that other additions and modifications can be made to the illustrated embodiments without departing from the scope hereof.

In one aspect orthogonal corpus indexing OCI is employed for selecting ad words for purchase. Advertisers pay search engines for placement of their advertising along side results in search results pages provided by the search engines when a given word or phrase appears in a user s search query. Such words or phrases are sometimes referred to as ad words. A system employing an OCI database may enable automated selection of related and discriminating terms identifying keywords that increase the ratio of ads clicked through to money spent on keyword buying. In addition to selecting positive words that are related to the advertiser and invoke their advertisement an OCI database may also indicate negative ad words words with negative correlation to the concept of interest which can be used to prevent an advertisement from being shown. For example if a user enters a search query such as apple fruit an advertiser may desire an advertisement for laptops from Apple Computers to be prevented from being shown. In such a case the advertiser may buy apple as a positive keyword and fruit as a negative ad word related to their advertisement. Further details may be found with reference to below.

In another aspect orthogonal corpus indexing OCI is employed for generating an advertiser database also sometimes referred to as a competitive marketing database. By querying search engines with various advertising keywords information regarding advertisements shown in response to the keywords can be built into a database. Information in such a database may be organized per advertiser. For example the database may enable construction of an index of topically organized ad words used in advertisements for a number of advertisers. Fine grained classification of ad and web content may reveal the topic space in which advertisers buy their ad words. The database may be further augmented by processing the advertiser s web sites and other information such as public filings products description pages and annual reports and inserting this information into the advertiser database. Such an advertising database may facilitate comprehensive analysis of advertisements and related content from competitors and help an advertiser buy ad words and create advertisements that differentiate themselves from competitor advertisements and are therefore more effective and better focused to their target audience. In some cases the advertising database may help an advertiser mimic competitor keywords in order to draw traffic from competitor web pages to their web pages. Further details may be found with reference to below.

In yet another aspect orthogonal corpus indexing OCI is employed in a system for generating content for web pages advertisements and or other suitable Internet documents. The system may generate content for a web page to improve its page rank in a search engine. Building web pages with a higher position closer to the top of a search result page is sometimes referred to as SEO Search Engine Optimization . OCI may be used to determine content from a content database that when added to a web page improves the rank of that page in a search engine. In some embodiments the system may generate content to form a new web page. Similarly OCI may be used to determine content for an advertisement to improve its ad rank in a search engine. Analogous to page rank ad rank determines the relative position of an advertisement in advertising listings displayed by a search engine. In some embodiments the system may generate content to form a new advertisement. In some embodiments OCI may be used to generate keywords to query a search engine for related web pages. The system may extract content from web pages found in response to the search query and add the content to a web page or an advertisement. In some embodiments the keywords may be provided to a natural language text generator that can synthesize new text to add to the web page or advertisement. Further details may be found with reference to below.

Turning to there is depicted a graphical user interface of the type created and employed by systems according to an illustrative embodiment. The graphical user interface represents a topic index a portion of which is shown in this illustration. The topic index may be a graphical representation of the table of contents of an encyclopedia or other corpus. A user may employ the graphic interface to access information that relates to the different topics listed in the index . Additionally the depicted index includes topics and subtopics including subtopics of the same ancestor topic. For example in the topic Human Origins is the ancestor topic for the subtopics The Study of Ancient Human and the Distribution of Early Hominids. A topic or a subtopic may be understood to include optionally its ancestor topics or underlying subtopics.

The graphical representation of the index may include a hypertext link or other linking mechanism for each topic or subtopic in the index . For example the user may activate the links as depicted by the highlighted topic PHYSICS in to retrieve a group of documents having content that is associated with the selected topic. As further depicted by the system may provide a display such that for a selected topic or a subtopic such as the selected topic Physics a document or a plurality of documents may be presented to the user as documents associated with the topic. In the depicted embodiment a pointer to the document such as the title and URL may be presented to the user. Additionally an associated numerical score that represents that document s association to the topic may also be presented. The development of such scores will be described in more detail hereinafter. Optionally all the documents associated with a topic may be displayed in a window of the system .

Turning now to dataflow diagrams are presented that illustrate one process for creating a graphical interface such as the interface of . Specifically depict a process wherein a corpus such as an existing published book of reference material is processed by an orthogonal corpus indexing OCI process that extracts content signatures and topic indices from the corpus content. The depicted process employs the content signatures to generate search strings for search engines to identify content associated with topics described in the corpus. The retrieved or discovered documents may be examined for content relevance and the relevant documents may be associated with topics presented in the orthogonal index of the corpus. Optionally site attributes such as document type timeliness source and other such attributes may also be identified and employed to select relevant websites that may be associated with a topic in the index of the orthogonal corpus.

More specifically depicts that the process operates on a corpus that may be input to the index generator . The index generator may generate an index for the corpus and this index may be provided to the keyword generator . The keyword generator may produce a set of key words and may be associated with the index . The process continues in which shows the index in the search keys being applied to a search engine . The search engine discovers documents from a database of content or from a collection of databases of content to thereby create an association between at least one of the topics of the index and the information retrieved from the database .

The depicted corpus may be any collection of information and may include but is not limited to encyclopedias text books dictionaries thesauruses atlases maps and other reference material. In one embodiment the corpus may be a published book that may be turned into or stored in an electronic format such as a conventional computer data file of text information. The corpus preferably in an electronic format may be provided to the index generator . The index generator may process the corpus to identify a hierarchical organization of a plurality of topics that appear within the corpus . To this end the index generator may decompose the corpus to create a standard hierarchical topic orientation that is capable of assigning text content to title headers topics subtopics or any other device that may be employed for representing a section of text related to a topic meaning category or some other similar abstraction.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 963 203 entitled Automatic index creation for a word processor issued to Sotomayor Bernard describes methods that may be employed by the index generator . For example Sotomayor describes methods that enable scanning one or more documents to automatically identify key topics and phrases in a document s text as well as methods to generate an index to those key topics. Similarly U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 258 entitled Method and apparatus for automatically generating hierarchical categories from large document collections by Vaithyanathan Shivakumar Travis Robert and Prakash Mayank further describes techniques that may be employed by the index generator for determining an index for a corpus. Other techniques known in the art may also be employed by the index generator without departing from the systems and methods described herein.

In an alternative practice the index generator allows an operator to identify the type of corpus being input into the index generator . For example the index generator may present an interface to the operator that allows the operator to identify whether the corpus being presented comprises and encyclopedia a dictionary a textbook or another known type of reference document. Additionally the index generator may allow the operator to identify whether the corpus includes a table of contents an index chapter heading or any other representation of the different topics contained within the corpus. In this embodiment the user may identify for example that the corpus comprises an encyclopedia and that the encyclopedia includes a table of contents that is representative of the index of orthogonal topics maintained within the encyclopedia. In this embodiment the index generator may process the presented corpus to identify the table of contents for the encyclopedia. This table of contents in one embodiment may be formatted into an HTML document that presents the table of contents in an organized format that emphasizes the topics subtopics and other hierarchical structure of the table of contents. In one process the index generator processes the notation for the table of contents such as the topic numbering employed to identify which topics are understood as parent topics and which are understood as main topics and which are understood as subtopics. In a further optional embodiment the index generator may present the generated index with the orthogonal corpus to the operator to allow the operator to edit or amend the generated index for the orthogonal corpus .

As shown in once the index generator has processed the corpus the index generator may present the index for the corpus to the keyword generator . The index may comprise a hierarchical representation of the orthogonal topics maintained within the corpus . This hierarchical representation may include primary topics such as the depicted topic and a plurality of subtopics that are associated with the primary topic .

The keyword generator in one embodiment operates to identify sections of text of the corpus to be associated with the different topics and subtopics of the index . Continuing with the above example in those practices where the index is generated from the table of contents for the corpus the keyword generator may identify those pages that contain information associated with a topic presented within the index . For example the keyword generator may process the table of content for the corpus to identify a page number associated with a topic such as the topic and may analyze the page associated with topic to identify that portion of the page that may be associated with the topic . In one embodiment where headings are presented within the corpus the keyword generator may analyze the page associated with the topic to identify a heading that is representative of the beginning of the presentation within the corpus of information that is associated with topic . For example the keyword generator may identify a section of text within the associated page that contains the information associated with topic and that is presented in a type font and font size that is representative of a heading. In a subsequent step the keyword generator may identify the location of the heading for the subsequent topic that indicates the beginning of content related to the new topic. The keyword generator may identify the content that is delimited by the heading and and associate that content as content related to the topic .

Once the portion of the corpus that is to be associated with the topic is identified the keyword generator may process this assigned portion of text to generate a plurality of search keys each of which may be representative of a search string for selecting information from a database.

In one embodiment the system employs the orthogonal construction of the corpus for algorithmic identification of keywords in each topic that distinguish that topic from its sibling cousin ancestor or descendent topics. Accordingly the systems described herein may create a set of keywords for a topic that identifies a document associated with a topic and that are keywords which may act to distinguish documents associated with one topic from documents associated with another topic. For example the system may employ processes that identify keywords that are associated strongly with a particular topic. Techniques for creating keywords will be understood from Deerwester S. Dumais S. T. Landauer T. K. Furnas G. W. and Harshman R. A. 1990 Indexing by latent semantic analysis. 41 6 391 407. Additionally the system may identify other keywords that act to disassociate a document from one or more other topics. These keywords may be employed by the system to numerically score over an underlying pool of documents.

The system may employ scoring methods that may utilize traditional information retrieval techniques including the use of synonyms stemming frequency proximity stop words hyponyms and synonyms. If as in most large document collections it is not practical for all documents to be individually scored against the keywords then a subset of search words is selected to identify candidate documents for scoring. Keyword and search terms are identified based on a numerical method that apportions words among topics. The goal is for the keywords and search terms to identify individual blocks of text as found at the nodes of the orthogonal corpus topic hierarchy. In an ideal sense the keywords would be partitioned across the hierarchical tree nodes with each word occurring in only one corpus topic. In addition to word rarity among corpus topics rarity in the underlying document pool may contribute to a word being identified as a keyword or search term for a given topic. For example a keyword occurring in only one node and only once on the Web would be a top candidate as a keyword and search term.

The keyword generator may present as an output a set of keywords each of which may be associated with a topic or subtopic in the index . As described above these keywords may be employed to act to distinguish documents associated with one topic from documents associated with another topic. Accordingly as depicted in the search keys and associated topics on the index may be presented to the search engine for retrieving information from a database or databases of content . To this end the process applies the search keys to the database to retrieve information from the database . In one practice as will be described in more detail hereinafter an optional step in process is performed wherein the search keys are processed to identify a subset of search keys that may be employed for generating search queries to one or more search engines such as Internet search engines to discover a set of documents which are relevant to the topic of interest. Each of the resulting documents may be examined in a subsequent step to determine the relevance of the content contained within the index. The relevance may be scored as further described below for identifying the relevance of that document and the score may be employed for ordering the sequence in which content is listed as being relevant to a particular document.

Once the discovered documents are scored for relevance the process may associate portions of the discovered documents to associated topics within the index . In a practice wherein the database includes links to URL s for websites the process may create a web database that contains website information such as URL s types dates topics contents size and editor notes that are inserted or updated in the database from time to time. Information about the corpus that has been processed such as the publisher the ISBN and other types of information needed to purchase the book through an online transaction may also be stored. The search engine may then provide a navigation tool that comprises the HTML representation of the index wherein topics and subtopics within the index link to URL s of web content identified as being related to the topic or subtopic selected by the user. Optionally in certain embodiments the topics and subtopics may also include links to portions of the corpus that are related to the topic selected by the user. In this way a user may select a topic presented by the corpus in view of the information presented by the corpus and related information stored on the World Wide Web. In other embodiments other techniques are employed for semantic processing and for determining a topic that can be associated with a portion of text within the corpus.

The data flow diagram depicted in may be implemented in a data processing process wherein a data processing program processes the corpus and generates an index that links topics in the corpus to information from a data sources such as the Internet. Turning now to a flow chart illustration of one such process is depicted. Specifically depicts a process for extending a corpus by identifying topics covered by that corpus and employing information stored in the corpus and related to the topics to identify information in a database that is also related to the topic. The process also generates an optional graphical user interface such as the interface depicted in that includes links for topics listed in the index and that may be employed by a user to access the information associated with the listed topics.

The process begins with the act of identifying a corpus that is to be extended such as by selecting a publication that contains reference material. In step the process transforms or casts the corpus into a normal form for processing. In one practice this involves decomposing the document format of the corpus into a standard hierarchal topic orientation with a mechanism for assigning text content to title headers topics and sub topics. Optionally stop words such as the common words and them and within are identifies and removed during normalization.

After normalization the process proceeds to step wherein the corpus is processed to identify which portions of the corpus relate to which topic. In one practice wherein the corpus includes a table of contents the process analyzes the document format of the corpus to locate within the text headings associated with the different topics. For example as described in the above cited publication U.S. Pat. No. 5 963 203 entitled Automatic index creation for a word processor header information set off by HTML tags may be identified to find indicia of topic entries in the document being processed. However any technique for processing a document to identify the sections of text related to a topic may be applied including other techniques for analyzing the mark up form language of the document.

Proceeding to step the process analyzes the topics to identify a signature that may be understood as representative of the semantics of the topic. In one practice the process creates a word map per topic and subtopic. To this end the process in step may create a summary representation of the words in the text based on the number of location of and proximity of words within each topic and sub topic. Other factors may be employed or substituted for these. Statistics are maintained on different parts of the document structure such as titles headings paragraphs sentences and image.

Table I depicts that several topics may be identified within the corpus. For example Table I depicts that the processed corpus includes the topics Archaeology Argentina Arithmetic Art and Astronomy.

The process in one practice may then determine for a given topic the word count for the words that appear within the portion of text or other content associated with the respective topic. This is depicted in Table II that shows an example of the word count with stop words removed for words that appear in the portion of the corpus related to the topic Astronomy. 

In process after the word count and other statistics are determined signatures are generated using orthogonalization. For example in one practice given the word counts or word maps for all or a selected subset of topics simultaneously the process assigns a weight based on word count to each word within each topic or subtopic. Where using word counts the weight may be defined as the count. When using the word map the weight of a word in a topic or subtopic may be assigned by an intra document scoring function. Any suitable technique any be employed for performing intra document scoring. These signatures may be edited or cleaned manually to enhance the topical relevance and precision of the subsequent search and scoring process. Table III depicts an example signature for the topic Astronomy. 

After determining a signature the process may perform the optional step step of applying synonym Groups. In this optional step the process extends the signatures with synonym groups. To this end words are replaced by groups of word substitutes having similar or identical meaning. Table IV depicts such an extension.

After step the process may proceed to step wherein the process reduces the signature to Keyword sets optionally tailored for the search. The set of documents to be scored against a topic is preferably identified and manageable in size. The web for example is a large a document set to collect up and score against all web documents. Accordingly in one practice traditional large scale search engines such a Lycos and Alta Vista may be used to identify a set of candidate relevant documents using a keyword set for search. Which subset of the Signature and synonym groups is included in the Keyword set may be determined based on a variety of measures including corpus document word count of the word and general frequency of the word. An example is presented in TABLE V.

The keyword set may be applied to a search mechanism to pull in multiple discovered documents based on the keyword set. This may occur in step . For example the query Find Astronomy or Astronomical or Astronomers or earth or bodies or universe or celestial or circle or Observational or sky or stars or ancient or daily may be generated from the keyword set and applied to the search mechanism to discover documents related to the selected topic.

After the step the process may proceed to step for scoring of the discovered documents. The many discovered documents returned from a search function may be assigned individual scores against the corresponding corpus topics and subtopics. Scoring may be based on multiple tunable metrics and rules including functions over the word count or word map data structures. The score of topical overlap between two documents as a baseline is measured as a dot product of word counts or word frequencies within those documents .

After step the process proceeds to optional step wherein the topic hierarchy and set of associated documents may be presented directly through an HTML or graphical user interface such as the interface depicted in . Alternatively content may be delivered though software API s application program interfaces to allow integration of output content with other content. Content may be navigated by walking the directory tree structure or by keyword searching over the directory structure trees corpus content or discovered document content. Search results may point to topic paths or discovered documents.

More particularly depicts that a user such as an Internet user may access a user interface that may be similar to the user interface depicted in . As shown in the user interface may present to the user a list of topics . The user may select a topic from the index . As described with reference to the selection of a link directs the user interface to retrieve information from the database system . The database system processes the users request from user for information related to the selected topic.

The database system may be any suitable database system including the commercially available Microsoft Access database and can be a local or distributed database system. The design and development of suitable database systems are described in McGovern et al. Addison Wesley 1993 . The database can be supported by any suitable persistent data memory such as a hard disk drive RAID system tape drive system floppy diskette or any other suitable system.

As further depicted by that database system may communicate with the OCI mechanism . The OCI mechanism may be in one embodiment a computer process capable of implementing a process such as process depicted in . The OCI mechanism can be realized as a software component operating on a conventional data processing system such as a Unix workstation. In that embodiment the OCI mechanism can be implemented as a C language computer program or a computer program written in any high level language including C Fortran Java or basic. Techniques for high level programming are known and set forth in for example Stephen G. Kochan Programming in C Hayden Publishing 1983 . Accordingly the OCI mechanism may be employed by a system administrator to process corpora stored within the database . As discussed with reference to the processed corpora results in a graphical user interface that may be stored within the database mechanism and accessed by the user through the topic navigator . Additionally the OCI mechanism may generate for the processed corpora of database a set of links or pointers to content that corresponds with different listed topics within the index of the processed corpora. The OCI mechanism may also store these associated links within the database system .

To this end the OCI mechanism may couple to one or more search engines that allow the OCI mechanism to retrieve content from a database source. In the depicted embodiment of the database source that search engines access is the World Wide Web . In this embodiment the user interface also couples to the World Wide Web so that links activated by the user that relate to URL s of content stored on the World Wide Web may be directly accessed by the user through the user interface through the connection between the user interface and the World Wide Web . further depicts that the database communicated with an API layer . As shown in the API layer sits between the portal search client and the database system and also sits between the scoring mechanism and the database system . Accordingly a portal search client such as the Yahoo site may access the database system through the API layer to provide users with access to an index linked to content on the World Wide Web.

Similarly depicts the scoring mechanism . The scoring mechanism may be a computer process that accesses the database system through the API . The scoring mechanism may perform data mining for identifying topics that are to be associated with different websites. In this way the database system may be employed for categorizing web sites according to their content. Thus the system depicted in provides a system for categorizing information stored on the World Wide Web. The system described in may operate on any suitable computer hardware such as PC compatible computer systems Sun workstations or any other suitable hardware. The list of topics and the associated documents or links to documents may then be stored in a relational database or any suitable database with proper indexing for allowing rapid accessing of the data stored therein.

Once the system is operating the system may be employed to provide a set of tools such as that may operate as stand alone applications for single users or that may be tools provided as client server programs over a network. The tools may be provided as a collection of functions incorporated into an integrated research tool or may co exist as individual functions in a separate application.

Further embodiment the systems and methods described herein may be employed for organizing a plurality of corpora into an indexed format that may be presented as a graphical user interface for a user to allow a user to access information related to the contents of a plurality of corpora. For example depict the operation of a system that processes a plurality of text such as reference texts. Accordingly the system may be employed for the automatic creation of a topically organized book catalog such as a catalog of reference books with navigation search click through to external documents such as web documents with information purchasing interfaces also. For example depicts a graphical user interface that presents to a user a plurality of topics each having a set of books within the topic. For example the depicts a topic reference that includes a set of encyclopedias and dictionaries within that reference. By activating the reference link the user may be presented with the user interface shown in . the individual references presented under the reference topic of are outlined for the user allowing the user to select what type of reference the user would like to view.

For example the user may select from encyclopedias dictionaries academic and learned society publications and other such publications. After making a selection the user may be presented with the different books under each category. The example presented in shows that upon activating the link for encyclopedias the user is presented with the different encyclopedias that have been processed by the system according to an illustrative embodiment. Upon selecting a link such as the link for the Encyclopedia Britannica the user may be presented with the interface shown in that lists the different topics covered by the Encyclopedia Britannica. At this level the process now proceeds as described above with reference to wherein the individual topics maintained within the Encyclopedia Britannica may be employed for accessing contact such as web contact particularly associated with the individual topics.

In some embodiments orthogonal corpus indexing OCI is employed for selecting ad words for purchase. Advertisers pay search engines for placement of their advertising along side results in search results pages provided by the search engines when a given word or phrase appears in a user s search query. Such words or phrases are sometimes referred to as ad words. A system employing an OCI database may enable automated selection of related and discriminating terms identifying keywords that increase the ratio of ads clicked through to money spent on keyword buying. In addition to selecting positive words that are related to the advertiser and invoke their advertisement an OCI database may also indicate negative ad words words with negative correlation to the concept of interest which can be used to prevent an advertisement from being shown. For example if a user enters a search query such as apple fruit an advertiser may desire an advertisement for laptops from Apple Computers to be prevented from being shown. In such a case the advertiser may buy apple as a positive keyword and fruit as a negative ad word related to their advertisement.

Processor receives estimated upper and lower CPC values from traffic estimator and calculates estimated upper and lower marketing break even MBE values as well as an average MBE value for each candidate ad word. An MBE value is calculated as MBE CPC conversion rate 

Processor compares the average MBE value for each candidate ad word to a threshold value to determine which ad words to select for purchase. In some embodiments the threshold value is a global average MBE calculated as the average or mean of the average MBE values across all candidate ad words. For example given two keywords with average MBE values of 4.00 and 5.00 the global average MBE value can be calculated as 4.00 5.00 2 4.50. Processor selects ad words having average MBE value below the threshold value to provide ad words selected for purchase. The threshold value may be input by a user. In some embodiments the threshold value may be determined by processor as a function of e.g. available advertising budget. In some embodiments the threshold value varies over time and other suitable parameters. In some embodiments a range for the threshold value may be received and a value chosen from the range based on time and or other suitable parameters. In some embodiments processor receives actual CPC values for advertisements deployed using the selected ad words. Processor may calculate respective MBE values for the selected ad words and recommend removal of previously selected ad words that have an average MBE value higher than a threshold value e.g. the global average MBE. Having an average MBE value higher than global average MBE may indicate that the ad word may not be effective in reaching the advertiser s target audience.

Table VI presents an illustrative analysis of candidate ad words and their respective CPC and MBE values. Table VI shows candidate ad words related to an advertiser for digital cameras. For example the estimated upper and lower CPC values for intensity are 1.12 and 1.40 respectively. These values indicate that cost paid by an advertiser to a search engine for a single click on their advertisement at the search engine varies from 1.12 to 1.40. Table VI assumes a conversion rate of 0.02 i.e. the ratio of visitors who click on the advertisement and perform a desired action such as a purchase to total visitors clicking on the advertisement is 0.02. The estimated upper and lower MBE values for intensity are 56.00 1.12 0.02 and 70.00 1.40 0.02 respectively and the average MBE value is 63 70.00 56.00 2 56.00 . Given a global MBE average of 80.64 calculated from average MBE values below as a threshold value system may recommend ad words matrix metering weighting and intensity for purchase. Selecting these ad words may allow for better exposure of the advertisement to consumers interested in digital cameras and in particular the advertiser s digital cameras while doing so at an advertising cost lower than costs for commonly used terms such as cameras and exposure .

Optionally the processor may receive performance data of advertisements based on the selected ad words and may recommend removal of ad words that are not being cost effective. At step advertisements relating to the selected ad words are deployed in an advertising campaign. For example a digital camera advertising campaign may include selected ad words matrix metering and intensity and show related advertising in response to a user having these terms in his search engine queries. At step the processor receives actual CPC values from live performance of advertisements relating to the selected ad words. At step the processor computes MBE values for the selected ad words and may recommend removal of previously selected ad words that have an average MBE value higher than a threshold value e.g. the global average MBE. For example ad word intensity may have an average MBE value higher than threshold indicating that the ad word may not be effective in reaching the advertiser s target audience of users searching for digital cameras. The processor may analyze data related to ad word intensity and recommend removal from the selected ad words.

In some embodiments orthogonal corpus indexing OCI is employed for generating an advertiser database also sometimes referred to as a competitive marketing database. By querying search engines with various advertising keywords information regarding advertisements shown in response to the keywords can be built into a database. Information in such a database may be organized per advertiser. For example the database may enable construction of an index of topically organized ad words used in advertisements for a number of advertisers. Fine grained classification of ad and web content may reveal the topic space in which advertisers buy their ad words. The database may be further augmented by processing the advertiser s web sites and other information such as public filings products description pages and annual reports and inserting this information into the advertiser database. Such an advertising database may facilitate comprehensive analysis of advertisements and related content from competitors and help an advertiser buy ad words and create advertisements that differentiate themselves from competitor advertisements and are therefore more effective and better focused to their target audience.

Optionally the processor may periodically repeat queries to the search engine based on the keywords and update the advertising database with the latest information. At step the processor queries the same or another search engine with the keywords or a subset of the keywords derived from the reference database. In some embodiments the processor may be provided with new keywords to include in its queries to the search engine. At step the processor receives search results from the search engine and identifies information related to advertisements in the search results page into classifications such as advertiser advertisement content advertising link page and ad word. At step the processor updates the advertising database with the gathered information. At step the processor checks to see whether to repeat any of the queries and update the advertising database. If so the processor proceeds to step and repeats the process of querying the search engine and updating the database. In some embodiments new keywords may be added to the search queries or keywords may be removed from the search queries. In some embodiments the advertising database may be updated periodically e.g. every hour every day or any other suitable interval of time.

In some embodiments orthogonal corpus indexing OCI is employed in a system for generating content for web pages advertisements and or other suitable Internet documents. The system may generate content for a web page to improve its page rank in a search engine. Building web pages with a higher position closer to the top of a search result page is sometimes referred to as SEO Search Engine Optimization . OCI may be used to determine content from a content database that when added to a web page improves the rank of that page in a search engine. In some embodiments the system may generate content to form a new web page. Similarly OCI may be used to determine content for an advertisement to improve its ad rank in a search engine. Analogous to page rank ad rank determines the relative position of an advertisement in advertising listings displayed by a search engine. In some embodiments the system may generate content to form a new web page. In some embodiments OCI may be used to generate keywords to query a search engine for related web pages. The system may extract content from web pages found in response to the search query and add the content to a web page or an advertisement. In some embodiments the keywords may be provided to a natural language text generator that can synthesize new text to add to the web page or advertisement.

In some embodiments in addition to querying content database processor queries search engine with keywords to determine content. Search engine may provide related web pages in response to a search query having one or more of keywords . Processor may extract content from one or more related web pages and add the content to web page . In some embodiments processor queries natural language text generator using keywords to request synthesis of new text to add to web page . In some embodiments processor determines categories of keywords selected from the group of a noun a verb a place a person and an other part of speech and queries natural language text generator using keywords and their respective categories. Natural language generation is directed to synthesis of new text having natural language in the form of sentences and paragraphs. For example weather forecast periodically provided by The Weather Channel is synthesized by a natural language generator from raw weather sensor data. Natural language generators greatly benefit from a context to restrict their scope which is readily provided by keywords . This reduces the scope of processing making natural language generation a tractable task and likely to produce meaningful and relevant output. Natural language generator may include a commercially available natural language generator e.g. KPML natural language generator developed by University of Bremen Germany. Further examples and details on natural language generators may be found in Cambridge University Press 2000 the teachings of which book are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. In some embodiments the generated content may be used to form a new web page or a new advertisement different from the web page or advertisement received in seed input .

Those skilled in the art will know or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the embodiments and practices described herein. For example the systems and methods described herein may be employed for providing encyclopedia i.e. corpus extender. An encyclopedia as an archetype example of an orthogonal corpus may be automatically extended by application of the systems and methods described above to include links into the World Wide Web or other database via searching or meta searching over the Web. The breadth and depth of the corpus enables a high quality high coverage database of web links with the web links organized according to the location in the topic hierarchy whose text was used to generate them. Such links may provide geographical maps histories of topics of interest access to theses and other types of information. Other applications include web book companions wherein the system processes a book including a fictional work a non fictional work or a reference book through this system will allow automated construction of topical web sites as Web Companions to individual books. For example a book such as may be processed by the systems described herein to create links into the Web to documents associated with concepts from the book such as links to the Navy Submarine division links to topographic maps of the ocean floor links to Russian Naval History and other similar links.

A search engine extension may be provided by accessing the database through the API. Thus a user may do a search on a web search engine they may want to refine their search or get a second search opinion. Given a broad topic database such as that created in the Encyclopedia Extender application described above refinement of a user s intended topic is enabled through keyword based narrowing web link browsing and display of proximal or correlated topics in the corpus topic hierarchy. For e commerce the systems described herein book article browser seller. Browsing over the topic hierarchy may provide indexes into books or articles for sale.

Additional applications can include a user interface. The user interface allows users to view Web links through the topic hierarchies defined by the corpus. The topic hierarchy on the left lists the topics as per the corpus. The user may select keywords from the corpus outline or from provided sample text inside the corpus documents to better focus and score the topic. Users may augment the search terms or keywords with their own keywords or selected synonyms to more specifically tailor a concept to a need. Searching across the corpus or across the referenced links may include synonyms stemming frequency proximity stop words hyponyms and synonyms.

Additionally authoring toolkits may be provided that allow publishers editors and authors to create corpus extensions and associated applications. For example the systems and methods described herein may be employed to create development kits that publishers may use to index a book and create a web site that acts as the book companion described above.

It may be noted that human oversight or auditing of the document scoring and database may be done in order to augment the purely automated document selection. This may be done on a sampling basis for quality control. Different levels of sensitivity to content or product price points may be implied by different levels of human quality control. Moreover it will be noted that the system described above has been done so with reference to documents stored on the Web. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the Web is being used here as a metaphor for any electronic document archive and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to the Web.

Variations modifications and other implementations of what is described may be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. More specifically any of the method and system features described above or incorporated by reference may be combined with any other suitable method system or device feature disclosed herein or incorporated by reference and is within the scope of the contemplated systems and methods described herein. The systems and methods may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the systems and methods described herein. The teachings of all references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Accordingly it will be understood that the systems and methods described herein are not to be limited to the embodiments disclosed herein that other applications such as information mining may be practiced with the systems and methods described herein and that the systems and methods described herein are to be understood by the following claims which are to be interpreted as broadly as allowed under the law.

