---

title: Method of modifying access control for web services using query languages
abstract: Embodiments of the claimed subject matter provide a method of controlling access to resources in a social graph. One embodiment of the method includes receiving information for configuring a query in response to a service being invoked. The service is configured to use the query to request access to resources associated with a node in a portion of a social graph associated with a first user. The method also includes associating the query with the node. The query operates on the resources associated with the node and returns information indicating whether a request to access the resources is granted or denied depending on a current state of the social graph.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177168&OS=09177168&RS=09177168
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09177168
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20120319
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 423 697 filed on Mar. 19 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 047 643 entitled Method of Extending Web Service Application Programming Interfaces using Query Languages by Lawrence E. Menten.

This application relates generally to processor based systems and more particularly to access control for processor based systems.

This section introduces aspects that may be helpful in facilitating a better understanding of the claimed subject matter. Accordingly the statements of this section are to be read in this light and are not to be understood as admissions about what is in the prior art or what is not in the prior art.

In some known communication schemes users communicate with each other using social networks. Social networking services can be defined as an online service platform or site that provides services to subscribers based upon a representation of social relations among people who may share a common background interest or activity. A social network typically consists of a representation of each user often a profile his her social links and a variety of additional elements such as photographs status reports web links or the like. Most social network services are web based and provide tools services that allow users to interact over the Internet such as e mail and instant messaging. Social networking sites allow users to share ideas activities events and interests within their individual networks. Exemplary social networks include Facebook Google Twitter LinkedIn VKonkatke Orkut and RenRen.

Social networks represent individuals and their relations using a social graph. Generally a social graph describes the relationships between a subscriber s online persona which may also be referred to as the user s avatar and other subscribers online personas. The social graph therefore reflects the real world relationships between the subscribers which are generally referred to as the social network. For example the social graph of a social network can be structured as a series of nodes e.g. Subscriber FriendsLists CloseFriends etc. that are associated with each other using edges which may also be referred to as links or connections defined by the relationships between the nodes. Leaf nodes are associated with a parent node but they have no child nodes. For example leaf nodes associated with the CloseFriends node may each include a data structure including information for one of the subscriber s friends. The social graph may also include nodes for different types of relationships such as groups associated with a particular interest as well as nodes for different types of information such as photographs music and web links. The nodes edges information and relationships that make up the social graph may be referred to as resources of the social graph.

Resources in the social graph may be associated with users or subscribers that are not explicitly connected in the social graph by an edge representing a relationship. For example a subscriber may post a group photograph of all of the alumni at a reunion picnic. The group photograph may include images of people who are listed in the FriendsLists or CloseFriends groups of the subscriber and other people who are not linked to the subscriber in the social graph. The subscriber or friends of the subscriber may identify or tag people in the group photograph who are not linked to the subscriber. For another example a subscriber may define groups such as a Business Lunch Group that includes other subscribers that are all linked to the subscriber who defined the group but who may not be linked to each other in the social graph. The subscribers who are linked together may not be able to exchange information through the social network such as planning messages for scheduling a business lunch.

Providers of social networks use the information in their social graph to implement services or applications apps . Developers can create services or apps using an application programming interface API developed and supported by the social network provider. The API for a social network usually implements a Representational State Transfer REST architecture that consists of clients and servers. Clients initiate requests to servers which process requests and return appropriate responses to the clients. Requests and responses are built around the transfer of representations of resources. A resource can be virtually any coherent and meaningful concept that may be addressed. A representation of a resource is typically a document that captures the current or intended state of a resource. Generally a REST ful architecture must be client server based stateless cacheable layered use a uniform interface and may provide code on demand. For example an API for a social network such as Facebook includes a defined set of Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request messages along with a definition of the structure of response messages e.g. in an Extensible Markup Language XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON format.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an exhaustive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter or to delineate the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is discussed later.

In one embodiment a method is provided for controlling access to resources in a social graph. One embodiment of the method includes receiving information for configuring a query in response to a service being invoked. The service is configured to use the query to request access to resources associated with a node in a portion of a social graph associated with a first user. The method also includes associating the query with the node. The query operates on the resources associated with the node and returns information indicating whether a request to access the resources is granted or denied depending on a current state of the social graph.

In another embodiment a method is provided for controlling access to resources in a social graph. One embodiment of the method includes invoking a service configured to perform queries on resources associated with a node in a portion of a social graph owned by a first user. This embodiment of the method also includes associating a query with the node in response to invoking the service. The query determines whether to grant or deny requests to access the resources associated with the node depending on a current state of the social graph.

Illustrative embodiments are described below. In the interest of clarity not all features of an actual implementation are described in this specification. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual embodiment numerous implementation specific decisions should be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which will vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. The description and drawings merely illustrate the principles of the claimed subject matter. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art may be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles described herein and may be included within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore all examples recited herein are principally intended to be for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the claimed subject matter and the concepts contributed by the inventor s to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.

The disclosed subject matter will now be described with reference to the attached figures. Various structures systems and devices are schematically depicted in the drawings for purposes of explanation only and so as to not obscure the description with details that are well known to those skilled in the art. Nevertheless the attached drawings are included to describe and explain illustrative examples of the disclosed subject matter. The words and phrases used herein should be understood and interpreted to have a meaning consistent with the understanding of those words and phrases by those skilled in the relevant art. No special definition of a term or phrase i.e. a definition that is different from the ordinary and customary meaning as understood by those skilled in the art is intended to be implied by consistent usage of the term or phrase herein. To the extent that a term or phrase is intended to have a special meaning i.e. a meaning other than that understood by skilled artisans such a special definition will be expressly set forth in the specification in a definitional manner that directly and unequivocally provides the special definition for the term or phrase. Additionally the term or as used herein refers to a non exclusive or unless otherwise indicated e.g. or else or or in the alternative . Also the various embodiments described herein are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments.

Subscribers to social network services or other users thereof rely upon the social network service provider to keep the subscriber s personal information secure and private. However subscribers also use social network services to broadcast transmit or display personal information to selected subscribers e.g. subscribers indicated in FriendsLists. The social network service provider attempts to balance the competing desires to make information public and keep it private by defining access control policies that determine whether users are able to access resources associated with particular parts of the social graph. For example users that have been designated in the FriendsLists of Joe Subscriber are typically able to see status updates photographs or any other information that is posted by Joe Subscriber. Joe s friends in the network may also be able to send or post information to Joe Subscriber e.g. by writing on his wall or commenting on the information he has posted. Other users are not typically able to see information posted by Joe Subscriber or to comment on information that he has posted. Subscribers have a limited ability to control access to their information e.g. by making some categories of information public or limiting access to other information categories to friends or friend of friends.

The access control policies that determine who can access information in the social graph are generally static. For example current RESTful web service APIs statically define both the resources in the social graph and the access control scheme that gates access to those resources. The access control schemes are not extensible by the end user subscriber or by an application developer or other third party. Thus even though a subscriber can limit access to their personal information using the predefined security settings neither a subscriber nor a third party can alter the predefined security settings. Consequently many potentially valuable applications cannot be created because granting the access required for the operation of the application would require granting broader access to resources than the end user or the service provider is willing to permit e.g. on a global basis for all users at all times.

Embodiments of the techniques described in the present application may allow developers or third parties to attach queries to resources either existing or new that grant access to the associated resource based on the current state of the social graph. For example the query may grant access to a resource based on the relationship of the requesting user to the user that owns the resource the relationship of the requesting user to the resource or a combination of both criteria. Access to the resources may also be granted or denied based on past interactions between the resource owner and the resource requester e.g. access may be granted to requesters that have frequently appeared in photos or frequently commented on resources owned by the resource owner. The access granting queries return a Boolean value indicating whether or not access has been granted to the resource. Users or the social network service provider may authorize attaching the query to the resource before the access control query can be added to the social graph. Developers or other third parties may create queries that can provide conditional access to a user s resource and then use these queries to create applications or services that make use of the expanded accessibility of the user s resources. For example a developer may create an application that grants access to a resource such as a photograph posted by a first user so that users or subscribers that are tagged in the photograph can comment on the photograph even if they are not ordinarily authorized to read or write to resources owned by the first user. The access control queries may be dynamic or temporary. For example an authorized access control query may be attached to a user s resource in response to the user initiating a service that uses the access control query and then the access control query may be removed when the service is terminated.

The users may subscribe to one or more social network services . Exemplary social network services include the social network service provided by Facebook and the social network service provided by Google . However persons of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of the present disclosure should appreciate that alternative embodiments of the communication system may include other social network services such as Twitter LinkedIn VKonkatke Orkut RenRen or the like. In the illustrated embodiment the users have subscribed to the social network service and the users have subscribed to the social network service . The users may therefore have created profiles and established relationships to other subscribers in the social graphs of the social network services . The users information related to the users and the relationships between the users may be represented by the structure of the social graph. For example the social graph of the social network may include nodes e.g. Subscriber FriendsLists CloseFriends etc. that are associated with each other using edges defined by the relationships between the nodes.

Application developers can develop applications apps or services that use the information in the social graphs of the social networks to generate and provide useful information to the users or other third parties such as advertisers attempting to provide targeted advertising to the users . The application developers create or define the applications or services using application programming interfaces APIs to the social network services respectively. The APIs are initially defined by the providers or owners of the social network services and the same APIs are supported for all of the users . In one embodiment the APIs conform to the constraints imposed by representational state transfer REST architectures. A REST ful web service API to the social networking sites may provide a resource hierarchy defined by the service API and support read or write access to various elements of the social network information associated with each user . For example the resource hierarchy may define a tree that includes non leaf nodes that define categories or subsets of information. The tree may also define the nodes or leaves that represent the instances of data that may be read or written through the web service APIs . This arrangement is typical of many web services. In conventional web services the resource naming scheme is defined by the service provider and is not extensible.

As discussed herein the REST ful web service APIs to the social networking sites statically define the resources and the access control scheme that controls or gates access to the resources. Embodiments of the techniques described herein allow expansion or extension of the APIs to support more flexible access control e.g. by expanding access control rights on a per user or per service or per application basis. The expanded access control rights may be used to grant access depending on the current state of the social graph. For example access to selected resources may be conditionally granted to users or subscribers depending on their relationship to the selected resource or their relationship to the owner of the resource. In one embodiment instead of attempting to anticipate the granularity of access control for a RESTful web service that may be required by new services or applications application developers may be able to customize access control using appropriately defined query expressions.

Various embodiments of access control queries may be defined using logical expressions and may return different values. In one embodiment developers may select or specify a Boolean valued TRUE FALSE query expression that may be applied against web service resources to determine whether a user may access the web service resources. Developers may alternatively select or specify query expressions that return other parameters that can be used to indicate the access control status of a user. For example a query expression that returns a counter value that indicates the number of times a user has previously accessed related resources be used to determine whether the user is given access to the web service resource. More complicated queries may also be defined. For example the query expression granting access control may be a query returning a logical expression that combines the results of the query with logical operators e.g. AND OR or NOT or mathematical comparison operators to provide a Boolean TRUE or FALSE result. For another example a function in a dynamic language may be provided e.g. expressed in JavaScript which operates on the rows and columns of one or more query result sets to provide a TRUE FALSE result. So for example access control query expression containing two queries might be of the form 

The query expression may be associated with a RESTful action GET PUT POST DELETE and may determine whether or not access is granted for a web service request. The query expression could be implemented in any query language including SQL SPARQL or XPath. The query expression can be directly associated with the target resource or may alternatively be added to the web service as an additional resource that can be applied against a number of resources and revoked or modified for some or all of them in a single operation. A name or description that suggests or describes the nature of the permission granted by the query expression may be associated with the query expression. If the query expression is added as an extension to the web service then the name may be used as an element of the resource name in the URI used to establish read and delete the query expression through a RESTful PUT POST GET and DELETE operation.

In the illustrated embodiment users may post resources to one or more of the social network services and may invoke services that can provide conditional access to the posted resources. For example the user may post a group photograph on Facebook and then invoke a service that attaches a query to a node associated with the group photograph to conditionally grant access to users that are tagged in the photograph regardless of any other relationship that the users may have to the user that on the photograph. The user may comment on the photograph if the user is a Facebook friend of the user . The user may not be a Facebook friend of the user but the service may use the query to grant conditional access to the user so that the user can comment on the photograph if the user is tagged in the photograph. The user may not be a Facebook friend of the user and may not be tagged in the photograph. The query therefore does not grant access to the user .

Embodiments of the communication system may allow developers with appropriate permissions to extend the resource tree by adding leaf nodes representing new views of the data represented by the node to which the new leaf node is attached. These nodes can be named by the developer and associated with one or more access control queries that operate on the data subset or sub tree identified by the branch of the tree in which the new leaf node is inserted. The nodes or queries may be added through an off line web interface or inserted through a HTTP POST request. The queries views may be named or defined by the developer or the queries views may be selected from a menu of pre defined queries views available from the provider of the social network services . In various alternative embodiments query parameters may be defined by the developer determined by the context node or dynamically determined by the service or application.

In the illustrated embodiment developers or other third parties can attach one or more access control queries to nodes in the portion of the social graph corresponding to the subscriber. The access control queries may operate on resources associated with the node such as photographs or other resources. In one embodiment the developer may use a message or command to define the query and attach the query to one or more nodes to modify an application programming interface API to the social graph . For example the query may be attached to the node e.g. the Photographs node in response to Joe Subscriber invoking a service that utilizes the query to modify access control for the resources associated with the node . One example of an address that invokes the query is 

Embodiments of conventional query languages may typically be flexible enough to allow a single query to be designed that may be applied in different positions or nodes within the social graph . The nodes may be selected for each query by the developer or the nodes may be selected using an automated procedure or algorithm. For example the social networking site may examine the query select the appropriate nodes to which to apply the query apply the query iteratively or concurrently to the selected nodes in the tree and combine the results. In some embodiments the developer or third party may need to obtain permission or authorization to attach the query to the social graph . For example the developer or third party may need to obtain permission or authorization from Joe Subscriber or the service provider or owner of the social graph. The authorization may only be valid for a limited amount of time e.g. after a subscriber has invoked or initiated an application or service that utilizes the query and until the subscriber terminates the application or service. The query may therefore be a temporary or dynamic query.

In a conventional access control scheme a user of a REST ful service presents an access token to the service or an application presents the access token on behalf of the end user and the access token identifies the access that has been granted to the user application. Predetermined resources of the service may specify what access privileges are granted to a particular user. For example in Google calendar a user may be assigned a role that determines the access rights for that user. For a given resource e.g. Google calendar v3 calendars KidsEvents the role determines whether or not the user has access to the resource through an HTTP GET request can update the calendar through an HTTP PUT request or can delete the calendar through an HTTP DELETE request . The roles grant a collection of access rights that are predefined for the role. The predetermined roles are fixed by the service provider and are not extensible by the user developers or third parties.

In the illustrated embodiment the requested at access control query can be used to grant individual access rights to the resource thereby bypassing role based access control. Alternatively a user may be associated with a particular role based upon the result of the requested at access control query which may override or augment the access granted to the user through the access token. The access control query would be attached to a node in the resource tree and the placement of the query node might determine the scope of the role. For example the query scope may be limited to the resources in the sub tree to which the query is attached. The query node may be given a meaningful name. For example the query node for a query that determines whether or not to give caregivers access to a subscriber s calendar that lists children s events may be named GrantCaregiversAccess and may be replaced or deleted using the associated URI.

For another example in the context of a Facebook like service the query may be used to grant or deny access to a photo album or to individual photos in the album based upon the design of the query. The service may determine whether the query grants access to the album or list of albums to which it is attached or to individual photos within the album or list of albums to which it is attached based upon the parameters to the query 

In the illustrated embodiment the request to attach the access control query may require authorization from the user subscriber. The user authorization process may be performed at to verify that the user has authorized attaching the access control query to one or more nodes the user s social graph. User authorization can be performed using various techniques. For example the request to insert the query may include a request to initiate authentication authorization process that allows the user to indicate at whether they approve or allow implementation of the new query. The request is rejected at if the user does not provide confirmation or authentication. The request may proceed if the subscriber confirms or authenticates the request.

In the illustrated embodiment the request may also require authorization from the provider or owner of the social network SN service. The provider authorization process may be performed at to verify that the provider owner has authorized inserting the new query into the user s social graph. Provider authorization can be performed using various techniques. For example the request to attach the access control query may include a request to initiate an authentication authorization process that allows the provider to indicate at whether they approve or allow implementation of the new query. In one embodiment the provider may perform the authentication authorization process using an automated system that reviews the request and determines whether the request complies with security privacy or other policies established by the provider. Before installation into the web service the query may be mechanically validated to assure that it complies with the security usage policy of the web service. For example the web service may only allow queries that return Boolean results may restrict the node types with which an access control query may be associated e.g. only the Photographs node . The request is rejected at if the provider does not provide confirmation or authentication. The request may proceed if the provider confirms or authenticates the request. Persons of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of the present disclosure should appreciate that the particular authentication sequence depicted in is intended to be illustrative. Alternative embodiments may perform the user and provider authentication processes concurrently or in a different order than the one depicted in . Moreover other alternative embodiments may only perform user authentication or provider authentication but not both or may not perform any authentication at all.

Once the request has been authorized the requested query may be attached at at the selected position within the social graph. The developer third party or other entities may then be able to use the modified interface to enable applications or services that utilize the new query. For example the POST request described above may result in extending the API for the subscriber Joe Subscriber so that it is now possible to make a GET request for the URI 

Embodiments of the method may therefore support modified interfaces that provide a wider and more varied set of access control rights while reducing the risk of providing excessive or complete access to the underlying database that represents the social graph. The modification made by the POST request may only affect the user who authorized the request Joe Subscriber and can be reversed by a corresponding HTTP DELETE request or other operation. In one embodiment the mechanism for inserting the query may be to create a record that is associated with the end user. The inserted record may contain the query and the associated path to be used in the GET request. In various embodiments the Web service supports one or more query languages and publishes a schema to accompany the query languages.

The service provider e.g. using software firmware or hardware implemented on one or more servers owned or operated by the service provider may then monitor at queries associated with the service. Monitoring may continue as long as the service provider does not detect at any queries. When the service provider detects at an access control query e.g. a query performed to request access to the social graph as part of the service requested or invoked by the subscriber the query can be performed at on information included in a sub tree of the node associated with the query. For example the query may return at a Boolean value indicating whether the access request has been granted or denied based at least in part on the information included in the sub tree of the node.

In the illustrated embodiment developers or other third parties can add one or more nodes to the portion of the social graph corresponding to the subscriber. For example a developer may use an HTTP POST command to insert a node that is associated or attached to the node of the sub tree . The node may then be accessed using the appropriate URI or other address. For example the node may be associated with Calendar of Joe Subscriber the node may be associated with Calendars of Joe Subscriber and the node may be associated with a category that includes the events that Joe s children participate in such as KidEvents. The node may also be associated with or connected to a further sub tree which includes a plurality of leaf nodes such as ballet lessons soccer practice piano recital or the like. However persons of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of the present disclosure should appreciate that the sub tree may include different combinations of nodes or leaf nodes. The sub tree or the leaf nodes may be populated by the developer a third party the subscriber or automatically by the service provider. The node may be accessed using an address such as 

The interface to the social graph may be modified to support access control queries that operate on the node that was added to the social graph . In one embodiment a developer may use a message or command to define the access control query and attach the query to one or more nodes to modify an application programming interface API to the social graph . For example the node for children s events KidEvents may be created and attached to a query that determines whether or not to give caregivers access to a subscriber s calendar that lists children s events may be named GrantCaregiversAccess and may be replaced or deleted using the associated URI.

In the illustrated embodiment the request may require authorization from the user subscriber. The user authorization process may be performed at to verify that the user has authorized inserting the new node into the user s social graph. User authorization can be performed using various techniques. For example the request to create the node and attach the query may include a request to initiate authentication authorization process that allows the user to indicate at whether they approve or allow creation of the new node and implementation of the new query. The request is rejected at if the user does not provide confirmation or authentication. The request may proceed if the subscriber confirms or authenticates the request.

In the illustrated embodiment the request may also require authorization from the provider or owner of the social network SN service. The provider authorization process may be performed at to verify that the provider owner has authorized inserting the new node into the user s social graph. Provider authorization can be performed using various techniques. For example the request to create the node and attach the query may include a request to initiate an authentication authorization process that allows the provider to indicate at whether they approve or allow creation of the new node or implementation of the new access control query. In one embodiment the provider may perform the authentication authorization process using an automated system that reviews the request and determines whether the request complies with security privacy or other policies established by the provider. Before installation into the web service the access control query may be mechanically validated to assure that it complies with the security usage policy of the web service. The request is rejected at if the provider does not provide confirmation or authentication. The request may proceed if the provider confirms or authenticates the request. Persons of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of the present disclosure should appreciate that the particular authentication sequence depicted in is intended to be illustrative. Alternative embodiments may perform the user and provider authentication processes concurrently or in a different order than the one depicted in . Moreover other alternative embodiments may only perform user authentication or provider authentication but not both or may not perform any authentication at all.

Once the request has been authorized the requested node can be inserted at at the selected position within the social graph. The interface to the social graph can then be modified by attaching at the access control query to the new node or to nodes that are lower in the tree. The developer or third party or other entities may then be able to develop applications or services that utilize the new access control query. For example an access control query associated with the calendar KidEvents may be invoked using the URI 

Although depicts a single server persons of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of the present disclosure should appreciate that alternative embodiments may use multiple servers and may distribute portions of the functionality depicted throughout the multiple servers. In some embodiments the server may be a virtual machine. In some of these embodiments the virtual machine may include components from different machines or be geographically dispersed. For example the data storage and the processor may be in two different physical machines. When processor executable programs such as the social network services are implemented on the processor the program code segments combine with the processor to provide a unique device that operates analogously to specific logic circuits.

Portions of the disclosed subject matter and corresponding detailed description are presented in terms of software or algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the ones by which those of ordinary skill in the art effectively convey the substance of their work to others of ordinary skill in the art. An algorithm as the term is used here and as it is used generally is conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of optical electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise or as is apparent from the discussion terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Note also that the software implemented aspects of the disclosed subject matter are typically encoded on some form of program storage medium or implemented over some type of transmission medium. The program storage medium may be magnetic e.g. a floppy disk or a hard drive or optical e.g. a compact disk read only memory or CD ROM and may be read only or random access. Similarly the transmission medium may be twisted wire pairs coaxial cable optical fiber or some other suitable transmission medium known to the art. The disclosed subject matter is not limited by these aspects of any given implementation.

The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only as the disclosed subject matter may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Accordingly the protection sought herein is as set forth in the claims below.

