---

title: Point of sale payment system
abstract: A method for point of sale payments includes receiving, from a seller device over a network, payment information. The payment information is associated with payment code information in a database. The payment code information is then sent to the seller device over the network for posting at a service location. The payment code information is then captured by a payer device at the service location and transmitted over the network. The payment information is then retrieved from the database using the associated payment code information. The payment information is then sent to the payer device over the network. A payment confirmation is received from the payer device over the network and, in response, a payment from a payer account to a seller account is initiated and the payment information and an indication of the payment confirmation is sent to the seller device over the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09275384&OS=09275384&RS=09275384
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09275384
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120330
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 338 509 filed Dec. 28 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Appl. Ser. No. 61 435 184 filed Jan. 21 2011 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to electronic payments and more particularly to systems and methods for making payments at a point of sale.

More and more consumers are purchasing items and services over electronic networks such as for example the Internet. Consumers routinely purchase products and services from merchants and individuals alike. The transactions may take place directly between a conventional or on line merchant or retailer and the consumer and payment is typically made by entering credit card or other financial information. Transactions may also take place with the aid of an online or mobile payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Such payment service providers can make transactions easier and safer for the parties involved. Purchasing with the assistance of a payment service provider from the convenience of virtually anywhere using a mobile device is one main reason why online and mobile purchases are growing very quickly.

However financial transactions such as those conducted at a point of sale POS location generally require the provision by the customer of a physical form of payment that typically includes cash a check or a transaction card such as a credit card a debit card or gift card. Such conventional transactions are inefficient and introduce delays with the purchase of products and or services at the POS location. In some embodiments that include POS locations include for example parking services transportation services restaurants retail stores etc. paying with a physical form of payment may delay the completion of the transaction as a result of the inability of the merchant to rapidly process the transaction. For example in a restaurant a customer will generally may have to wave down or wait for a busy server in order to provide a credit card for payment of the bill then wait for the credit card to be processed then wait for a receipt etc. These delays are undesirable for the customer and time consuming for the merchant and may lead to decreased profits for the restaurant due to the resulting inefficiency in the turnover of tables.

In another embodiment certain POS locations require smart POS devices to process payments such as those made using transaction cards. For example POS devices may need to be secure in order to communicate and possibly process sensitive financial information used to make the payment which makes the devices costly to implement and maintain for the merchant. From the consumer side such POS devices can be inconvenient as they typically required the customer to make a payment at a centralized POS device that is typically remote to the product or service that is being purchased such as for example when a consumer purchases the use of a parking space a bus train seat a movie seat etc.

According to one embodiment a method for point of sale payments includes receiving payment information from a seller device operated by a seller. The seller may operate a service location e.g. a parking lot that includes a plurality of payment locations e.g. parking spaces and distinct payment information may be associated with each of the plurality of payment locations in the service location. Distinct payment information is then associated with distinct payment code information in a database and the payment code information is sent to the seller device. The seller may then provide the distinct payment code information at each respective and distinct payment location as a sign or other physical representation of the payment code information. A payer wishing to make a payment to use the payment location may then use a payer device to capture the payment code information e.g. by capturing an image of the payment code information and transmit the payment code information such that it may be used to retrieve its associated payment information. That associated payment information may then be transmitted back to the payer device such that the payer may review it and provide a payment confirmation indicating that the payer would like to make a payment to the seller for the payment location. Upon receipt of the payment confirmation the payment information and an indication of the payment confirmation may be sent to the seller device to confirm to the seller that the payer has paid for the payment location.

As a result the seller need only provide payment code information at a POS location in a relatively inexpensive physical sign rather than implementing computing devices and or other smart point of sale systems. The payer may use their payer device e.g. a smart phone that a majority of potential payers typically carry with them a majority of the time to pay for the use of the payment location simply by capturing and sending the payment code information and confirming a payment. In some embodiments the seller may use a seller device that receives indications of payment confirmations and their associated payment information in order to monitor whether payment locations in the service location have been paid for.

These and other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for making point of sale payments. In an embodiment a seller operates a service location including a plurality of payment locations. For each payment location in the service location payment information for that payment location may be associated with payment code information in a payment information database and the payment code information may be provided to the seller for provision adjacent its associated payment location in the service location. A payer includes a payer device having a payment application. In an embodiment the payment application allows the payer to use a camera on the payer device to capture an image of the payment code information that is provided adjacent the payment location. The payment code information is sent to a payment information engine such that payment information associated with the payment code information may be retrieved and returned over the network to the payer device. The payer may then provide a payment confirmation so that a payment may be initiated from a payer account of a payer to a seller account of the seller which then causes funds to be transferred from a funding account of the payer to the seller account.

Referring now to a method for point of sale POS payments is illustrated. A few embodiments of the POS payment system are provided below that include service locations having payment locations such as the parking lot with parking spaces and train with seats described below. However these embodiments are not meant to be limiting and one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of other POS payment scenarios will fall within the scope of the system and method described herein.

The method begins at block where payment information is received from a seller. In an embodiment the POS payment system includes one or more payment information databases in which distinct payment information e.g. for each payment location or other service provided in the POS payment system is associated with distinct payment code information. For example referring to a seller may operate a service location that in the illustrated embodiment includes a parking lot. The service location includes a plurality of payment locations that in the illustrated embodiment include parking spaces. In the embodiment illustrated in a plurality of payers have paid for respective payment locations in order to use the payment locations to park their cars . In one example at block the seller may use a seller device to send distinct payment information that is associated with each distinct payment location in the service location to a payment information engine described in detail below. In another example an POS payment system provider may include a payment information engine that accepts payment information for payment locations in service locations from a plurality of different sellers. In this example payment information may include additional information that is not directly related to the payment locations such as for example seller information about the seller. In another example a payment service provider device that is located remote from the POS location and that is distinct from the seller may provide payment services such that the payer may make a payment to the seller without any direct exchange of information between the payer and the seller.

The method then proceeds to block where the payment information for each payment location is associated with distinct payment code information in the payment information databases. As described in further detail below the distinct payment code information may include for example a distinct alphanumeric character string and or other identifier known in the art that may be associated with payment information for each payment location in the payment information database. Thus in one embodiment the POS payment system may be seller specific in that only a single seller s payment locations in their service location are available to be paid for using the POS payment system. In another embodiment the POS payment system may provide for the payment for payment locations in a variety of service locations from a variety of different sellers who register their service locations payment locations with the POS payment system provider such that payment code information may be associated with each of their payment locations. In embodiments where a variety of different sellers provide their service locations payment locations to the POS payment system the distinct payment code information for each distinct payment location may therefore be associated with the service location and or the seller of that payment location. While a few examples have been provided one of skill in the art will recognize that payment code information may be associated mapped and or otherwise related with payment information for payment locations in a database in a variety of other scenarios while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

In an embodiment payment information for a payment location may include a number of details about the payment location such as for example an identifier for payment location e.g. that allows the payment location to be distinguished from other payment locations in the service location a cost for the payment location any payment variables associated with the cost of the payment location e.g. a payment rate that is a function of the amount of time the payment location is used and or a variety of other payment location information known in the art. The seller or POS payment system provider may enter the payment information for the payment locations of a service location into a database e.g. using a web interface through an Application Programming Interface API and or using a variety of other methods known in the art and relate map and or other associate each distinct set of that payment information i.e. payment information for a particular payment location with distinct payment code information which may be generated using methods known in the art . The payment information may also include the name of the seller seller account information seller contact information a payment location description etc.

The method then proceeds to block where the payment code information is sent to the seller. As discussed above payment code information may include an alphanumeric character string and or other identifier that may be generated using methods known in the art. The payment code information may be sent to a seller device and used by a seller to create a sign a sticker a tag a card a label a magnet a decal and or or other physical representation that includes the payment code information. For example the payment code information may be used to create a sign that may include for example a Universal Product Code UPC an International Article Number EAN a Quick Response QR code and or a variety of other identifiers known in the art. Then in an embodiment at block the payment code information associated with the payment information at block of the method is sent to the seller device and a sign may be created that includes the payment code information and that is located adjacent the payment location. For example illustrates a plurality of a signs with each sign located adjacent to and associated with a respective payment location in the service location . While a few examples of payment code information are provided below one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of different payment code information will fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to and the method then proceeds to block where payment code information is received from a payer. In the embodiment discussed below a payer having a mobile payer device such as for example a phone or other mobile computing device enters the service location of and decides to pay for one of the payment locations . However this embodiment is presented only as an example and one of skill in the art will recognize that variety of other POS payment scenarios will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. At block upon deciding to purchase one of the payment locations the payer may use their payer device to start a payer application that is included on the payer device . In an embodiment the payer application includes instructions that are stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a processor in the payer device cause the processor to perform the functions of the payment application discussed below. The payment application may be provided by the operator of the POS payment system e.g. a seller that operates the POS payment system a POS payment system provider that operates the POS payment system for a plurality of sellers etc. 

Activation of the payment application provides a payment code information provision page through the payment application on the payer device . illustrates a payer device that includes a display displaying a payment code information provision page . The payment code information provision page includes a first payment code information acquisition section and a second payment code information acquisition section . In the illustrated embodiment the first payment code information acquisition section provides for the scanning visual or image acquisition of payment code information while the second payment code information acquisition section provides for the manual text or otherwise more user intensive acquisition of payment tag information as discussed in further detail below. The first payment code information acquisition section includes an image capture window and the second payment code information acquisition section includes a text input

In the embodiment illustrated in payment code information which may be the payment code information illustrated in includes a UPC. The payer device may include a camera that is operable to capture an image of the payment code information and using methods known in the art the payment application may use the image to determine details of the payment code information e.g. the information encoded in the UPC . In another example the payer device may include a scanning device that is operable to provide a light source on the payment code information and measure the intensity of the light reflected back and the payment application may use the measured light intensities to determine the details of the payment tag information using methods known in the art. In another embodiment the payment code information may include human readable information e.g. 4815162342 on the payment code information in the illustrated embodiment that the payer may enter into the text input in the second payment code information acquisition section and the payment application may use the text string as the payment code information. In the embodiment illustrated in payment code information which may be the payment code information illustrated in includes a QR code. The payer device may include a camera that is operable to capture an image of the payment code information and using methods known in the art the payment application may use the image to determine the details of the payment code information e.g. the information encoded in the QR code .

The method then proceeds to block where payment code information is received from a payer. Upon capturing and or determining the payment code information in block of the method the payment application sends the payment code information over a network to a payment information engine provided by an operator of the POS payment system. Thus the operator of the POS payment system receives the payment code information. The method then proceeds to block where payment information is retrieved using the payment code information. Upon receiving the payment code information from the payer the payment information engine then accesses a payment information databases and uses that payment code information to determine the payment information that is associated with that payment code information and payment location . In addition to the payment code information the payer device may send information that identifies the payer device the payer the date and time of the transaction etc.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where the payment information is sent to the payer. Upon retrieving the payment information the payment information retrieval engine sends that payment information over the network to the payment application on the payer device . includes illustrates the payer device displaying e.g. on the display a payment information page that includes the payment information associated with the payment code information sent in block and received from the operator of the POS payment system in block . In the illustrated embodiment the payment information page includes a payment modifier a payment total a service location graphic a payment location graphic and a payment confirmation indicator . As will be understood by one of skill in the art the payer may use the payer device to select modify or otherwise provide the payment modifier e.g. a time that the payment location parking space will be used and the payment total will adjust based on the payment rate for the payment location. The service location graphic provides the payer the layout of the service location and the payment location graphic indicates to the payer which payment location in the service location the payer is about to pay for.

While one embodiment of the payment information page has been illustrated one of skill in the art will recognize that a wide variety of changes to the payment information page will fall within the scope of the present disclosure. For example using the parking services example described above the payer may be given an option to authorize a payment for an undetermined amount of time e.g. the payer will be charged for however long the car is parked in the parking space payment location. In another example the payer may be allowed to move the payment location graphic to different locations in the service location graphic in the event the payment location graphic is incorrectly positioned e.g. the user has captured the wrong payment code information relative to the payment location at which their car is parked. 

The method then proceeds to block where payment confirmation is received from the payer. Upon determining that the information on the payment information page is accurate e.g. the payment modifier is correct the payment location graphic is in the correct position in the service location graphic etc. the payer may select the payment confirmation indicator in order to send a payment confirmation to a payer account engine used by the operator of the POS payment system. In an embodiment the payer may have previously associated a payer account with the payment application such that the sending of the payment confirmation includes payer account information for the payer account of the payer. In another embodiment the payer account of the payer may be associated with the payment application but the payer may be prompted e.g. upon selecting the payment confirmation indicator to provide security credentials for the payer account such that the sending of the payment confirmation to the payment account engine includes payer account information for the payer account of the payer. In yet another embodiment there may be no payer account associated with the payment application and upon selection of the payment confirmation indicator the payer may be redirected to a payer account page not illustrated that requests security credentials and allows the payer to use a payer account to make a payment.

The method then proceeds to block where a payment is initiated from the payer to the seller. Upon receiving the payment confirmation from the payer in block the payment account engine may use seller account information that may have been included in the payment information associated with the payment code information payer account information that may have been received along with the payment confirmation as discussed above and the payment confirmation to initiate a payment from the payer to the seller. In one embodiment the payer account and seller account are provided by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. and the payment service provider is the operator of the POS payment system such that the a payment may be made from the payer account to the seller account upon receiving the payment confirmation in block . In another embodiment the seller is the operator of the POS payment system and the seller must then send the seller account information the payer account information and the payment confirmation to the payer account provider of the payer e.g. a payment service provider a funding account provider etc. such that a payment may be made from the payer account to the seller account. While a few examples have been provided of payments being made from a payer account to a seller account one of skill in the art will recognize that a wide variety of payments and entities may be involved in the payment transfer been the payer account and the seller account while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to the method then proceeds to block where payment information and an indication of payment confirmation are sent to the seller. The operator of the POS payment system in response to receiving the payment confirmation in block may send the seller e.g. the seller device and or other POS device at the service location the payment information received with the payment confirmation along with an indicator that the payer has confirmed the payment and or that a payment has been initiated and or that a payment has been completed between the payer account and the seller account. illustrates a seller device displaying a service location monitoring page that may be provided with the payment information provided to the seller. The service location monitoring page includes a service location graphic that includes the payment locations along with payer graphics in the occupied payment locations. The service location monitoring page may provide an attendant with a variety of functionality such as for example paid time left indicators that may be provided when the attendant selects one of the payer graphics on the service location monitoring page . Other indicators may be provided as well such as the time expired indicators e.g. the X s over the payer graphics that indicate that the payment locations are being occupied but are no longer paid for. Thus the seller may use the seller device to manage and track payments for the payment locations at the service location. In an embodiment a payment confirmation or receipt may be sent to the payer on the payer device in response to the initiation and or completion of the payment to the seller. While a few examples have been provided of functionality for a service location monitoring page one of skill in the art will recognize that a wide variety of functionality will remain within the scope of the present disclosure.

Thus a system and method have been described that allow a seller to use dumb point of sale signs for use with smart payer devices such that payers can pay for parking services provided by the seller. The dumb point of sale signs are cheap and easy to maintain eliminate the need for the seller to provide a smart POS device to receive or process payments and simply require the payer to use their smart phones in order to pay the seller for use of their parking services. In addition in some embodiments in which the seller is not the operator of the POS payment system e.g. when a trusted third party provider operates the POS payment system the payer need not provide sensitive information directly to the seller in order to complete the purchase.

Referring now to another embodiment of the method for point of sale POS payments is illustrated. The method begins at block where payment information is received from a seller. For example referring to a seller may operate a service location that in the illustrated embodiment includes a train. The service location includes a plurality of payment locations that in the illustrated embodiment include seats on the train. In the embodiment illustrated in a plurality of payers have paid for respective payment locations e.g. in the illustrated embodiment the darkened payment locations may correspond to train seats that have been paid for by payers in order to use the payment locations during travel on the train. In one example at block the seller may use a seller device to send payment information that is associated with the payment locations in the service location to a payment information engine described in detail below. In another example a POS payment system provider may include a payment code engine that accepts payment information for payment locations in service locations from a plurality of different sellers. In this example the payment information may include additional information that is not directly related to the payment location such as for example seller information about the seller.

The method then proceeds to block where the payment information is associated with the payment code information substantially as described above and block where the payment code information is sent to the seller substantially as described above. The method then proceeds to block where payment code information is received from a payer. Referring now to a payer device is illustrated that is similar to the payer device described above but with a payment application displaying a payment code information provision page on the display of the payer device . In the embodiment illustrated in the payment application is tailored to the service location and includes a first payment information acquisition section with an image capture window and a second payment code information acquisition section with a text input that operating substantially similarly to the first payment code information acquisition section image capture window second payment code information acquisition section and text input described above with reference to .

The method then proceeds to block where the payment information is retrieved using the payment code information substantially as described above. Referring now to at block the payment information is sent to the payer and may be used to provide a payment information page . The payment information page includes a payment modifier that in the illustrated embodiment allow the payer to select modify or otherwise indicate a destination to which the payer wishes to travel. A payment total provides a total payment amount that may be adjusted depending on the destination included in the payment modifier . A service location graphic is provided on the payment information page that illustrates the service location and includes a payment location indicator that indicates which payment location in the service location the payer is paying for. A payment confirmation indicator is provided on the payment information page and operates in substantially the same manner as the payment confirmation indicator discussed above. Thus the payer may provide details such as a destination and a payment location and then select the payment confirmation indicator in order to send the payment confirmation in block . In other embodiments payment modifiers on the payment information page may include upgrades or options such as for example food or beverage orders.

In other embodiments of the train service location discussed above a wide variety of modifications are envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure. For example a location determination device such as a Global Positioning System GPS may be used to determine the distance traveled by the payer device and hence the payer. Thus the payer may authorize a payment using the payment code information and payment information discussed above and the POS payment system may determine the amount of the payment by determining the distance traveled by the payer e.g. the payment amount may be calculated in response to detection of the payer device leaving the train . In another embodiment the payer may purchase a specific payment location and then move within the service location to a different payment location and the payment application may allow the payer to change the payment location associated with the payment such that it reflects the payment location to which the payer has moved. In yet another embodiment proof of payment may be provided to the payer device e.g. a receipt or other identifier such that the payer may move around the service location while still having proof that they have paid for one of the payment locations.

Upon receiving the payment confirmation from the payer in block the method proceeds to block where a payment is initiated from the payer to the seller substantially as described above. The method then proceeds to block where the payment information and the indication of the payment confirmation is sent to the seller substantially as described above. includes a seller device including a display that displays a service location monitoring page . The service location monitoring page includes a service location graphic that includes payment location graphics that include open seats and purchased seats with the purchased seats grayed out relative to the open seats . As can be seen an attendant may use the seller device to select a purchased seat in order to be presented with a destination indicator that indicates the destination that was paid for in the purchase of that purchased seat. In other embodiments the destination indicator may show a variety of other information such as for example a payer name.

In another example a second payer may attempt to purchase a previously purchased payment location by sending the payment code information using their payer device according to the method above. In such an example the payment information engine may determine that the payment code information received from the second payer is already associated with the payment for that payment location and thus the payment location is taken . In such a situation the payment information engine may provide to the payer device of the second payer a declined payment indicator that may indicate that the payment location has been purchased and that the second payer much purchase a different payment location.

Thus another embodiment of a system and method have been described that allow a seller to use dumb point of sale signs for use with smart payer devices such that payers can pay for transportation services provided by the seller. The dumb point of sale signs are cheap and easy to maintain and simply require the payer to use their smart phones in order to pay the seller for use of their transportation services.

As discussed above a wide variety of embodiments of the POS payment system other than the parking services and transportation services illustrated and described above are envisioned as falling within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the POS payment system may be implemented in a restaurant. In one embodiment a restaurant service location may include a plurality of tables payment locations and payment code information may be provided at each table. Thus a server may charge food and drinks to the table and the payer may pay for the bill at any time using their payer device to capture the payment code information review the bill payment information and provide a payment according to the method above. Furthermore the server or restaurant owner may review the tables that have paid using the seller devices and service location monitoring pages discussed above.

In another embodiment a restaurant such as for example a fast food restaurant may include a menu in which each food or drink item is associated with payment code information. The user may then capture the payment code information for each of the food and or drink items they wish to purchase and pay for those food and drink items according to the method discussed above. Payment modifiers may be provided during the method to allow the payer to modify the food and or drink items according to the desires of the payer including amounts quantities desired features etc.

In a further embodiment the POS payment system may be implemented in retail stores e.g. payment code information may be associated with clothing articles gyms spas offices theaters concert halls and or a variety of other businesses known in the art.

Referring now to an embodiment of a networked system used in the POS payment system described above is illustrated. The networked system may include any or all of a plurality of payer devices a plurality of seller devices a payment service provider device a plurality of funding account holder devices and or a POS payment system provider device in communication over a network . Any of the payer devices may be the payer devices and or discussed above. The seller devices may be the seller devices and or operated by the sellers of the service locations discussed above. The payment service provider device may be operated by a payment service provider such as for example PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. as discussed above. The funding account provider devices may be funding account provider devices operated by funding account providers such as for example credit card account providers bank account providers savings account providers and a variety of other account providers known in the art. The POS payment system provider device may be operated by a POS payment system provider as discussed above. One of skill in the art will recognize that some of the devices in the networked system may not be necessary in different embodiments. For example where the POS payment system is provided by a seller the POS payment system provider device and or the payment service provider device may not be included in the networked system . In another example where the online payment system is provided by a payment service provider device the POS payment system provider device may not be included in the networked system . In another example where the online payment system is provided by a funding account provider device the online payment system provider device and the payment service provider device may not be included in the networked system . Thus one of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of modifications may be provided to the networked system while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure.

The payer devices seller devices payment service provider device funding account provider devices and or the POS payment service provider device may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable mediums such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of the system and or accessible over the network .

The network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

The payer devices may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the payer devices may be implemented as a personal computer of a user in communication with the Internet. In other embodiments the payer devices may be a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices.

The payer devices may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the payer to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet.

The payer devices may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide user side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the payer. In one embodiment the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application. In another embodiment the toolbar application may provide the payment application discussed above.

The payer devices may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the payer devices . In particular the other applications may include the payment application discussed above for payments assisted by a payment service provider through the payment service provider device . The other applications may also include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic user applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. Email and or text applications may also be included which allow the payer to send and receive emails and or text messages through the network . The payer devices include one or more user and or device identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the payer devices or other appropriate identifiers such as a phone number. In one embodiment the user identifier may be used by the payment service provider device funding account provider devices and or online payment service provider device to associate the user with a particular account as further described herein.

The seller devices may be maintained for example by the seller of the product a conventional or on line merchant conventional or digital goods seller individual seller and or application developer offering various products and or services in exchange for payment to be received conventionally or over the network . In this regard the seller devices may include a database identifying available products and or services which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the payer. In addition databases identifying available products and or services will be available to any provider of the online payment system as discussed above.

Referring now to an embodiment of a payer device is illustrated. The payer device may be the payer devices and or . The payer device includes a chassis having a display and an input device including the display and a plurality of input buttons . One of skill in the art will recognize that the payer device is a portable or mobile phone including a touch screen input device and a plurality of input buttons that allow the functionality discussed above with reference to the method . However a variety of other portable mobile payer devices may be used in the method without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring now to an embodiment of a computer system suitable for implementing for example the payer devices and or the seller devices and or the payment service provider device the funding account provider devices and or the POS payment service provider device is illustrated. It should be appreciated that other devices utilized by payers sellers payment service providers funding account providers and or online payment service providers in the payment system discussed above may be implemented as the computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical a network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card a display component e.g. CRT or LCD an input component e.g. keyboard keypad or virtual keyboard a cursor control component e.g. mouse pointer or trackball a camera component and or a location determination device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device as illustrated a cell tower triangulation device and or a variety of other location determination devices known in the art. In one implementation the disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure the computer system performs specific operations by the processor executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in the memory component such as described herein with respect to the payer devices and the seller devices and the payment service provider device the funding account provider devices and or the POS payment service provider device . Such instructions may be read into the system memory component from another computer readable medium such as the static storage component or the disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In one embodiment the computer readable medium is non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as the disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as the system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise the bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. In one embodiment the computer readable media is non transitory.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by the computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of the computer systems coupled by a communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

The computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through the communication link and the network interface component . The network interface component may include an antenna either separate or integrated to enable transmission and reception via the communication link . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Referring now to an embodiment of a payment service provider seller POS payment service provider funding account provider device is illustrated i.e. the device may be any or combinations of the payment service provider device the seller device the POS payment service provider device and or the funding account provider device depending on the embodiment and which entity or entities are providing the online payment system . The device includes a communication engine that is coupled to the network a payment information engine and a payer account engine . The payment information engine is coupled to the payer account engine and a payment information database and the payer account engine is coupled to the payment information engine and a payer account database . The communication engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that allows the device s to send and receive information over the network . The payment information engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to receive payment information or payment code information associate payment information with payment code information retrieve product information from the payment information database and provide the payment information to the communication engine e.g. for transmittal to the payer device and or the payer account engine . The payer account engine may be software or instructions stored on a computer readable medium that is operable to receive payer account credentials retrieve payer account information from the payer account database receive payment information from the payment information engine and provide payer account information to the communication engine e.g. for transmittal to the payer device . While the engines and and the databases and have been illustrated as located in the device one of skill in the art will recognize that they may be connected to one another through the network e.g. when the online payment system is provided by more than one entity such as for example when the payer account engine is provided by a funding account provider and the product retrieval engine is provided by a seller without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example the above embodiments have focused on sellers and payers however a payer or consumer can pay or otherwise interact with any type of recipient including charities and individuals. The payment does not have to involve a purchase but may be a loan a charitable contribution a gift etc. Thus seller as used herein can also include charities individuals and any other entity or person receiving a payment from a payer. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

