---

title: Digital media personalization
abstract: Systems, methods, and media for digital media personalization are provided herein. Methods may include selecting an upcoming digital media publication to be published over a network, selecting prior to publishing the digital media publication, a portion of the digital media publication that is to be personalized after the digital media publication is published, establishing, prior to publishing the digital media publication, characteristics for personalization of the portion of the digital media publication, and publishing the personalizeable digital media publication over the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08719169&OS=08719169&RS=08719169
owner: Metrodigi, Inc.
number: 08719169
owner_city: Larkspur
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120413
---
This non provisional patent application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 13 355 451 entitled Systems Methods and Media for Generating Electronic Books which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate to digital media personalization. The present technology may be utilized to generate digital media publications that are personalizeable. A personalizeable digital media publication may include any digital publication such as an e book which may be autographed or otherwise personalized by its author or another individual. The present technology generates a digital media publication with personalizeable portions allows authors or other individuals to add personalized content to the digital media publication such as autographs audio and or visual media temporal and geo location data just to name a few. The present technology also stores the personalized content in the digital media publication.

Digital media such as electronic books are becoming more widely accepted and their sales are beginning to eclipse legacy printed publications. Because legacy printed publications involve a physical medium such as paper authors may easily personalize the media by way of an autograph inscription or other indicia that is applied directly onto the paper. For example an author may sign the front cover of a book. In other examples a program for a stage show may be signed by a member of the cast. What is needed are systems and methods for personalizing digital media such as e books audio files audiovisual files and visual files just to name a few. These and other advantages of the present technology will hereinafter be described.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to methods for managing a personalizeable digital media publication. The methods may comprise a selecting an upcoming digital media publication to be published over a network b selecting prior to publishing the digital media publication a portion of the digital media publication that is to be personalized after the digital media publication is published c establishing prior to publishing the digital media publication characteristics for personalization of the portion of the digital media publication and d publishing a personalizeable digital media publication over the network.

According to other embodiments the present technology may be directed to systems for personalizing a digital media publication. The systems may comprise a a memory for storing executable instructions b a processor for executing the instructions stored in memory to i select prior to publishing a digital media publication a portion of the digital media publication that is to be personalized ii establish prior to publishing the digital media publication characteristics for personalization of the portion of the digital media publication and iii publish a personalizeable digital media publication over a network.

According to additional embodiments the present technology may be directed to an e book reader device that may comprise a a touchscreen device b a memory for storing executable instructions c a processor for executing the instructions to i receive a personalizeable digital media publication the personalizeable digital media publication having characteristics for personalization of a portion of the digital media publication ii place the portion of the personalizeable digital media publication in an editable mode iii receive personalization input according to the characteristics for personalization via the touchscreen device and iv store a personalized digital media publication in any of the memory a remote storage media or combinations thereof.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form only in order to avoid obscuring the disclosure.

Generally speaking the present technology relates to the generation management publication and subsequent personalization of personalizeable digital media publications hereinafter referred to as publications. A publication may comprise any type of electronic document such as a book a periodical a playlist a bulletin a program and or a guide just to name a few. The publication is personalizeable because it may include a mechanism that allows for the insertion of personalized content within the publication. Activating the personalizing feature of the publication causes the display of a graphical user interface that receives personalized content such as an autograph a message an image an audio file a video file and or any combinations thereof.

The creation and management of publications may occur at a central location such as a web server that publishes digital media publications. Additionally a downloadable program plug in or module may execute on the client device e.g. reader device to allow individuals to execute the personalizing features of the publications.

The present technology may employ geolocation stamping and or time stamping to further enhance the received personalized content. For example when an electronic book is signed by an author the present technology may stamp the location e.g. latitude and longitude city state etc. and time e.g. time and date proximate the signature. In some embodiments end users may capture media such as photographic images videos or audio messages of individuals with their client device such as an e reader tablet laptop mobile phone etc. . The captured media may be included as personalized content along with any inscriptions or autographs from other individuals in the photograph.

These and other advantages of the present technology will be described in greater detail with reference to the collective .

The cloud may be formed for example by a network of web servers with each web server or at least a plurality thereof providing processor and or storage resources. These servers may manage workloads provided by multiple users e.g. cloud resource customers or other users . Typically each user places workload demands upon the cloud that vary in real time sometimes dramatically. The nature and extent of these variations typically depend on the type of business associated with the user.

In other embodiments the system may include a distributed group of computing devices such as web servers that do not share computing resources or workload. Additionally the system may include a single computing system that has been provisioned with a plurality of programs that each produces instances of event data.

Publication developers and or publishers may access and interact with the system via a client device using a web based interface as will be discussed in greater detail infra. The system may communicatively couple with the client device via a network connection . The network connection may include any one of a number of private and public communications mediums such as the Internet.

Additionally the system may publish personalized content notifications and the like to a third party social media platform such as social media platform . In some embodiments the system may also publish or transmit publications to various third party distributors or publishers such as a publisher . It will be understood that in some instances the publications generated by the system may be exported to or stored in a storage media such as a content repository.

The system may also communicatively couple with reader devices such as reader device . The reader device may comprise any of an e reader a tablet personal computer a laptop a mobile communications device or any other computing device. As will be discussed in greater detail below the reader devices may each comprise a downloadable program plug in or other executable instructions that allow individuals to personalize a publication by interacting with the reader device .

The system may be generally described as a mechanism for managing personalizeable digital media publications. More specifically the system may generate personalizeable digital media publications and facilitate the publishing of these personalizeable digital media publications. The system is provided with an application that will be described in greater detail with reference to .

Prior to publication of the digital media publication the application may be executed to establish characteristics for personalization of a portion of the digital media publication. In some embodiments the characteristics determine how the publication can be personalized. For example the characteristics may specify that the publication may be signed by only a single individual or in other instances a plurality of individuals. The selection and establishment of some exemplary characteristics will be described in greater detail below.

Once the characteristics for how the publication can be personalized have been established the system generates a personalizeable digital media publication having the desired characteristics. The personalizeable digital media publication may then be published over the network to a publishing location such as an online retailer content management repository or may be published and transmitted directly to an end user and or consumer.

According to some embodiments the application may generally include a user interface module a configuration module a publishing module a social media module and a transaction module . It is noteworthy that the application may include additional modules engines or components and still fall within the scope of the present technology. As used herein the term module may also refer to any of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group that executes one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality. In other embodiments individual modules of the application may include separately configured web servers. Also the application may be provisioned with a cloud such as in some embodiments of the system .

An end user such as a publication developer or publisher may interact with the application via one or more graphical user interfaces that are provisioned as web based interfaces. The web based interface s may be generated by the user interface module . It will be understood that the user interface module may generate a plurality of different graphical user interfaces that allow end users to generate personalizeable publications. Examples of graphical user interfaces that are generated by the user interface module are provided in which will all be described in greater detail infra.

It will be understood that the generation of electronic documents is generally described in greater detail in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 355 451.

In conjunction with the user interface module the configuration module may be executed to allow publication developers to define which portions of a publication may be personalized and also the means by which the portions may be personalized.

In a common example a portion of the publication that may be personalized may comprise the title page of an electronic book. This example is similar to the typical method used by an author to sign a hardcopy of a book. In another instance the portion of the publication may comprise individual pages of a program that are associated with an individual. For example a digital program publication for a sporting event may include individual pages for each team member. Therefore the characteristics defined by the publisher may allow for each team member to sign their own individual page.

In addition to defining the personalizeable portions and the characteristics for personalization the configuration module may also allow publishers to define other characteristics for personalization such as allowing for geolocation time stamping of a personalization and or whether the personalization may be edited modified or deleted. In other instances the configuration module may require that the individual input a pin code or other security feature which insures that the individual inputting the personalization is authorized to do so. The configuration module may define the types of personalized content that may be allowed in the publication. For example the publication may allow for an inscribed object such as an autograph saying quote message or other similar written material. Other personalized content may comprise an image file a video file an audio file and combinations thereof. These types of personalized content media may be captured by the reader device or uploaded to the reader device from a local or remote location.

Additionally time based limitations on when a publication may be personalized may also be established as a characteristic. For example if a particular sporting event is occurring for only a brief period of time the publication may only be personalized while the sporting event is being conducted. By way of non limiting example the United States Golf Association may create and distribute digital program publications regarding an event such as the US Open golf tournament. To prevent enthusiasts from asking for autographs or other types of personalization for their publications the characteristics established for the publication may only allow for the publication to be personalized on practice days such as Monday and Wednesday.

Once the personalization characteristics have been established for the publication the publishing module may be executed to publish the personalizeable digital media publication over a network. Again it is noteworthy that the publication has been referred to as personalizeable because the publication has yet to be personalized by an individual. As mentioned previously the publication may be published to a publisher s website a content repository an online retailer and or and end user.

Once the publication has been published it may be downloaded onto the reader device from a content repository such as the webserver to which the publication has been published. After downloading the personalizeable publication may then be personalized. Again the reader device may download an application plugin or other tool that allows the reader device to display and receive personalized content into the publication. For example the application may communicatively couple with a personalization plugin that executes on the reader device . In other instances the ability to receive and process personalized content may be built into the publication itself such that when a reader application on the reader device opens and displays the publication the graphical user interfaces for personalizing the publication are rendered by standard reader applications such as Adobe Reader without additional hardware or software support.

Referring now to collectively according to some embodiments when a reader device opens a publication a fan engagement page is shown. The fan engagement page includes a book tour schedule as well as a Become a Fan button and an Autograph button . Again the selection of the fan engagement page and the location and features of the buttons were previously defined by a publication developer via the configuration module .

As mentioned previously the publication developer may designate page s in a publication that can be autographed using a metatag a button and or other indicator which in some instances includes a blank page at the beginning of the publication.

Clicking on the button may direct the reader to another location possibly via a browser application where the reader may obtain more information bonus content or register for customized information updates just to name a few features.

Upon selecting the button the personalization plugin may be executed to place the publication into an edit mode also known as autograph mode. A interface may be overlaid upon the publication . In some instances the size of the interface may depend upon the type of personalization content that is allowed to be input into the interface . If the characteristics of personalization for the publication only allow for an autograph the interface may be relatively small compared to a publication having characteristics that allow for insertion of media content or messages.

In general the interface is shown as having a free form scribing area as well as a media template . The interface may include control buttons such as autograph mode button that when toggled ensures that an individual who is personalizing the publication can input personalized content. The interface may comprise an eraser button that clears out the free form scribing area and a reset button that reset the entire interface .

The media template may comprise a media frame a media type selector a reset button that clears out the media currently in the media frame as well as a record play pause button that allows the individual to review or record personalized media content such as video images audio and combinations thereof.

The interface may also include a security input where individuals may be required to input an identifier to verify access rights for inputting personalized information. For example an author of a book may be provided a special access code that they must enter into the interface prior to saving any personalized content into the publication.

When the individual is done personalizing the publication the save button may be selected to save the personalization into the publication. It is noteworthy that based upon the characteristics for personalization established by the developer the saving of personalized content may be permanent no further changes may be made . That is the publication may be placed into a permanent mode. In other instances the individual may be allowed to go back into the publication and edit the personalized content. Additionally the autograph may be overlaid upon any portion of a page. Similarly to a physical autograph in a book the autograph may at least partially overlap objects on a page such as text. In other instances the autograph may be placed behind text to produce a watermarking effect.

As mentioned previously the personalization plugin may gather geolocation and or timestamp information from the reader device or from another source such as the system via the network connection .

Once the personalized content has been saved a personalized page may be generated for the publication. The personalized page may comprise the autograph input into the free form scribing area as well as the media input into the media frame of the interface . A geolocation timestamp may be placed below the media. As mentioned above the personalized page may include the Become a Fan button an edit button A that allows the individual to go back and edit the personalized content that was input into the interface as well as a share button B.

Again while the above described embodiment contemplates the use of a personalization plugin it will be understood that the publication itself may be configured to perform the features of the personalization plugin . Therefore the personalization plugin may not be required.

Upon receiving and saving personalized content for a publication the social media module may be executed to provide notification of the personalized content to at least one social media platform such as the social media platform . The notification may include data indicative of the personalized content the individual that provided the personalized content and or the recipient of the personalized content e.g. the reader . By way of non limiting example a notification may comprise a message which states that a particular author autographed a reader s e book on a specific data at a bookstore located in a particular town. The notification may be added to the reader s news feed status wall and or other similar social media mechanism that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. According to some embodiments the system and the social media platform may communicate with one another via an application programming interface API .

In other embodiments the transaction module may be executed to define fees or other compensation in exchange for the personalization of a publication. For example an author may specify that while autographs are free of charge personalized messages may be charged at a first amount. Likewise a personal photograph of the author and the reader may be charged at a second and higher amount than the first amount. Different combinations of personalized content may each have different monetary values associated therewith. The transaction module may be configured to modify the characteristics of the publication. For example the publication may be initially configured only to allow for autographs but if the reader purchases additional personalization the transaction module may communicate additional characteristics to the reader device that allow the publication to be further personalized such as allowing both an autograph and a personalized photo of the author.

The transaction module may also receive payment information from a reader via the reader device using methods that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art with the present disclosure before them.

In some embodiments a reader device similar to computing system of may be utilized to personalize a personalizeable digital media publication. In addition to comprising memory a processor and other ancillary hardware and software that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art the reader device may comprise a touchscreen device e.g. touchscreen panel that allows for tactile gesture or stylus based input into the reader device. In general the reader device may be configured to receive a digital media publication where the digital media publication comprises characteristics for personalization of a portion of the digital media publication. Also the reader device may place the portion of the digital media publication in an editable mode such as when an individual clicks an Autograph see . Additionally the reader device may also receive personalization input according to the characteristics for personalization via the touchscreen device and or store a personalized digital media publication in any of the memory a remote storage media or combinations thereof.

Although many of the embodiments described above contemplate the personalization of publications after the publications have been published it will be understood that in some instances a publication may be personalized before the publication is published. For example an author may pre autograph a predetermined number of publications before the publications are available for purchase by the public.

The method may also comprise a step of establishing prior to publishing the digital media publication characteristics for personalization of the portion of the digital media publication. Again these characteristics may be defined by the developer of the publication.

After establishing the characteristics for the publication the method may include a step of generating a personalizeable digital media publication followed by a step of publishing the personalizeable digital media publication over the network.

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor unit and main memory may be connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage device s and display system may be connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass storage device which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor unit . Mass storage device may store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk digital video disc or USB storage device to input and output data and code to and from the computer system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computing system via the portable storage device .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alpha numeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Display system may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Display system receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripherals may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computer system. Peripheral device s may include a modem or a router.

The components provided in the computer system of are those typically found in computer systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computer system of may be a personal computer hand held computing device telephone mobile computing device workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing device. The computer may also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems may be used including Unix Linux Windows Macintosh OS Palm OS Android iPhone OS and other suitable operating systems.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. Computer readable storage media refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a central processing unit CPU a processor a microcontroller or the like. Such media may take forms including but not limited to non volatile and volatile media such as optical or magnetic disks and dynamic memory respectively. Common forms of computer readable storage media include a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic storage medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical storage medium RAM PROM EPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. The descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the technology to the particular forms set forth herein. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments. It should be understood that the above description is illustrative and not restrictive. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the technology as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. The scope of the technology should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalent.

