---

title: Trust scoring for language translation systems
abstract: Systems and methods for generating trust scores for translations are described herein. According to some embodiments, methods for generating a trust score for a translation may include establishing a trust score for at least a portion of a first translation of a source text translated by a trusted translation system, the trust score representing an accuracy level for the first translation, comparing the first translation of the source text generated by the trusted translation system to a second translation of the source text generated by an untrusted translation system, and determining a trust score for the second translation based upon the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886517&OS=08886517&RS=08886517
owner: Language Weaver, Inc.
number: 08886517
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the priority benefit to co pending U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 454 212 filed on Jun. 15 2006 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 691 949 filed on Jun. 17 2005 U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 820 061 filed on Jun. 21 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 676 563 issued on Mar. 18 2014 which is a continuation in part of U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 572 021 filed on Oct. 1 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 380 486 issued on Feb. 19 2013 and international application PCT US2011 039523 filed on Jun. 7 2011 which are all hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties including all references cited therein.

The present technology relates generally to generating trust scores for translations and more specifically but not by way of limitation to generating trust scores that represent an accuracy of a translation generated by one or more untrusted translation systems. Trust scores may be calculated for translations generated by translation systems having unknown translation processes by comparing the translations of these systems to translations generated by trusted translation systems and evaluating the differences therebetween. Additionally the technology applies to untrusted translation systems in both the cases when the identity of the translation systems is known and when the identity is unknown.

The quality or accuracy of machine translated texts may vary widely depending upon the translation methodologies utilized to generate the translated texts the difficulty of the texts and the linguistic differences between the source and target languages. For example translation systems that utilize differing language models may produce translated texts with different accuracy levels relative to one another. A determination as to the accuracy of these translations often requires human intervention which is a costly and time intensive undertaking.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to methods for generating a trust score for a translation. The methods may comprise a establishing a trust score for at least a portion of a first translation of a source text translated by a trusted translation system the trust score representing an accuracy level for the first translation b comparing the first translation of the source text generated by the trusted translation system to a second translation of the source text generated by an untrusted translation system and c determining a trust score for the second translation based upon the comparison.

According to some embodiments the present technology may be directed to additional methods for generating a trust score for a translation. The methods may comprise a determining a translation complexity for the source text provided to an untrusted translation system b evaluating target language constructs included in a translation of the source text generated by an untrusted translation system and c determining a trust score for the translation based upon any of the translation complexity the target language constructs or combinations thereof.

According to other embodiments the present technology may be directed to system for generating a trust score for a translation. These systems may comprise a a memory for storing executable instructions b a processor for executing the executable instructions the executable instructions comprising i a trust score generator that establishes a trust score for at least a portion of a first translation of a source text translated by a trusted translation system the trust score representing an accuracy level for the first translation b an analysis module that compares the first translation of the source text generated by the trusted translation system to a second translation of the source text generated by an untrusted translation system and c an inference module that infers a trust score for the second translation based upon the comparison.

While this technology is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail several specific embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the technology and is not intended to limit the technology to the embodiments illustrated.

It will be understood that like or analogous elements and or components referred to herein may be identified throughout the drawings with like reference characters. It will be further understood that several of the figures are merely schematic representations of the present technology. As such some of the components may have been distorted from their actual scale for pictorial clarity.

Generally speaking the present technology is directed to generating trust scores for machine translated texts. More specifically but not by way of limitation the present technology may generate or determine a trust score based upon an analysis of the source text and the target translation generated by an untrusted translation system. Used throughout the term untrusted relative to a translation system may refer to the fact that there is little or no a priori knowledge regarding the translation methodologies utilized by the translation system. Exemplary translation methodologies may comprise language models translation memories language libraries text content parsing segmentation or other translation functionalities are at least partially unknown. These translation systems are untrusted or unknown because one cannot directly observe or may not be privy to the exact translation methodologies utilized by the translation system for example translation systems that utilize proprietary translation methods. Thus a typical method for determining the accuracy of these untrusted systems requires human review of the source content and the target translation.

In contrast a trusted or known translation system may refer to a translation system where at least a portion of the translation methods of the translation system are known or determinable. Because translation methodologies employed by the trusted translation system are understood it may be easier to assign an accuracy level e.g. trust score to the translation. For example if the trusted translation system was trained using a highly accurate parallel training corpus e.g. a library of exemplary source segment and translation segment pairs it can be assumed that translations generated from this training corpus are likely to be accurate assuming that the source text and or the translation correspond to content included in the training corpus .

To determine a trust score for a translation generated by an untrusted translation system the present technology may evaluate the source text and the target translation to determine the accuracy of the translation. The present technology may evaluate the translation complexity and the translation constructs of the translation to determine a trust score.

In other instances the present technology may compare a target translation generated by a trusted translation system against a translation of the same source text generated by an untrusted translation system. The present technology may efficiently calculate a trust score for the target translation of the trusted translation system. By determining differences between the translations of the same source text by both the trusted and untrusted translation systems the present technology may infer or approximate a trust score for the translation generated by the untrusted translation system. For example if there are relatively few differences between the target translations and the trust score for the trusted translation is high the present technology may infer that the trust score for the untrusted translation system is also high.

In sum the present technology may allow translators to determine an accuracy level for a translation generated by any translation system even a translation system for which the translator possesses very little or even no a prior knowledge regarding the translation methodologies of the system.

The present technology may also determine confidence levels that determine a likelihood that a trust scores are accurate. Moreover the present technology may modify a trust score if the confidence level indicates that the trust score is inaccurate. It is noteworthy that the confidence level of the trust score may also be influenced by whether the identity of the untrusted translation system is known or unknown.

Additional details regarding the calculation of trust scores is described in U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 454 212 filed on Jun. 15 2006 U.S. non provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 820 061 filed on Jun. 21 2010 and international application PCT US2011 039523 all of which were incorporated by reference above. Moreover further information regarding the calculation of trust scores and automatic ranking of translations using the same are included in a non patent publication entitled co authored by Radu Soricut and Abdessamad Echihabi published 48 July 2010 pp. 612 621.

These and other advantages of the present technology will be described in greater detail below with reference to the collective drawings i.e. .

The client device and the system may be communicatively coupled via a network . It is noteworthy to mention that the network may include any one or combination of private or public communications networks such as the Internet.

The system may also communicatively couple with one or more trusted translation systems such as trusted translation system and one or more untrusted translation systems such as untrusted translation system . In some instances each of the trusted and untrusted translation systems and may communicatively couple with the system over the network using an application programming interface API . It is noteworthy that other methods systems that allow the translation systems and the system to communicatively couple with one another that would be known to one or ordinary skill in the art are likewise contemplated for use in accordance with the present disclosure.

According to some embodiments the system may include a cloud based computing environment. In general a cloud based computing environment is a resource that typically combines the computational power of a large grouping of processors and or that combines the storage capacity of a large grouping of computer memories or storage devices. For example systems that provide a cloud resource may be utilized exclusively by their owners such as Google or Yahoo or such systems may be accessible to outside users who deploy applications within the computing infrastructure to obtain the benefit of large computational or storage resources.

The cloud may be formed for example by a network of web servers with each web server or at least a plurality thereof providing processor and or storage resources. These servers may manage workloads provided by multiple users e.g. cloud resource consumers or other users . Typically each user places workload demands upon the cloud that vary in real time sometimes dramatically. The nature and extent of these variations typically depend on the type of business associated with the user.

The system may be generally described as a particular purpose computing environment that includes executable instructions that are configured to generate trust scores for translations of source content from untrusted translation systems . The term generate as used herein may be understood to comprise other actions such as create assign calculate infer determine locate establish and other similar actions that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In some embodiments the system may include executable instructions in the form of a trust score generation application hereinafter referred to as application that provides various functionalities that will be described in greater detail herein. illustrates and exemplary schematic diagram of the application .

According to some embodiments the application may be executed to calculate a trust score for a translation that was generated by an untrusted translation system . The following method may be referred to as the input output analysis method. The application may first establish a trust score for at least a portion of a first translation of a source text translated by a trusted translation system . Again the trust score may represent an accuracy level for the first translation. Next the application may compare the first translation of the source text generated by the trusted translation system to a second translation of the source text generated by an untrusted translation system . Additionally the application may then determine a trust score for the second translation based upon the comparison.

According to other embodiments the application may be executed to generate a trust score for a translation that was generated by an untrusted translation system . The following method may be referred to as the parallel output analysis method. Initially the application may evaluate a source text which was provided to an untrusted translation system . The application may evaluate the source text using a language model to establish a translation complexity for the source text. Next the application may evaluate target language constructs included in a translation of the source text by the untrusted translation system . Finally the application may then determine a trust score for the translation based upon any of the translation complexity the target language constructs or combinations thereof.

While the above described methods for generating trust scores have been addressed one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that similar methods for calculating trust scores for translations generated by untrusted translation systems that fall within the scope of these methods are likewise contemplated for use in accordance with the present technology. A description of the application for generating trust scores in accordance with the above described methods is provided below.

According to some embodiments a translator may desire to calculate a trust score for a translation generated by an untrusted translation system or more than one untrusted translation system . Thus the translator may provide a trusted translation system with a source text which is to be translated into at least one target language. Once a target translation has been performed for the source text the trust score generator may be executed determine a trust score for the target translation also referred to as a first translation generated by the trusted translation system .

Because the translation methods of the trusted translation system are known the trust score generator may efficiently evaluate the accuracy of the target translation by way of a variety of methods. For example the trust score generator may compare the source text and target translation to translation pairs included in a training corpus. It will be understood that the analysis of the source text and the target translation may be conducted on a granular or segment level. For example source text segments such as words may be analyzed as well as their counterpart target translation words. If the source text and or target translations correspond to pairs included in the parallel training corpus it may be inferred that the translation is accurate.

In other embodiments the translated content may be verified by a human translator and provided to the trust score generator . Moreover target translations in general may be assigned a trust score by a human translator which is provided to the trust score generator .

According to some embodiments a trust score for a translation may comprise an average of a sum of trust scores for translated target language segments of the source text. Moreover a trust score for a translated target language segment may be weighted based upon the relative importance of the translated target language segment in the translation. For example a translated target language segment that corresponds to an object of a sentence may be weighted higher than an adjective for the same sentence. Thus inaccuracies in the translated target language segment that corresponds to the object have a greater negative affect on the trust score for the target translation than an inaccurate translation of the adjective.

In other instances a trust score may be determined by the trust score generator which evaluates the length of target translation constructs included in a translation. A target language construct may comprise one or more translated segments that are joined together to form a phrase or sentence. Again translated segments may correspond to source segments. The length of the translation construct may indicate that a plurality of source segments have been translated correctly and associated with one another to create a recognizable phrase or sentence. Thus as the length of the translation construct increases the likelihood that the accuracy of the translation of the source segments is high increases. In other words it would be difficult to generate a reactively long translation construct with words that are poorly translated. Conversely if a translation appears to require a word for word translation then it may be inferred that the translation is relatively inaccurate and a lower trust score may be assigned to the translation.

Additionally in some instances the trust score generator may infer the accuracy of a translation by evaluating a domain associated with the source text and a domain associated with the target translation. For example if the domain of the source text relates to sporting events and the domain of the target translation relates to food it can be inferred that the target translation is inaccurate. Again this comparison may be conducted on a granular word level a phrase level a sentence or paragraph level or even at a document level. Additionally domain level evaluations may also be utilized to generate a confidence level for a trust score as will be described in greater detail below.

According to some embodiments the trust score generator may utilize the analysis module to evaluate and consider a translation complexity for the source text when assigning a trust score to a translation. In some instances the analysis module may utilize a language model or multiple language models or a translation memory to evaluate the translation complexity of the source text. If the source text is determined to comprise translation segments that are rarely or never encountered it may be inferred that the translation of these complex source segments may be at least partially inaccurate.

Once a trust score has been established for a first translation by the trust score generator the analysis module may be executed to compare the first translation to a second translation generated by an untrusted translation system . Thus the analysis module may receive a second translation of the same source text from an untrusted translation system . Generally speaking the analysis module may determine differences that exist between the first translation and the second translation. Depending on the differences therebetween the analysis module may determine a basis for assigning or determining a trust score for the second translation. For example if the first and second translations are 90 similar to one another it can be inferred that the translations are similar enough that the inference module may assign a trust score to the second translation that is substantially similar to the trust score of the first translation. Thus translators may establish a threshold value that is used by the inference module as a reference point for assignment of a trust score value to the second translation. By way of non limiting example a threshold value of 95 may be established. Thus comparisons of first and second translations that are at least 95 similar may result in the assignment of trust score of the first translation to the second translation. Comparisons that yield comparative values of less than 95 may be subject to additional scrutiny by machine or human evaluation.

Advantageously the differing content may also be evaluated to adjust the trust scores of either the first or second translations. For example if a human translator determines that the remaining 10 of content that is different between the first and second translations is significant the trust score generator may modify the trust score of the errant translation. Continuing with the example if a human translator determines that the remaining 10 differential is attributed to inaccuracies in the second translation the trust score for the second translation may be adjusted downwardly. Likewise if the remaining 10 differential is attributed to inaccuracies in the first translation the trust score associated with the first translation may be adjusted downwardly while the trust score of the second translation is increased if the second translation is in fact accurate .

According to some embodiments the application may generate trust scores for translations generated by a plurality of untrusted translation systems . The application may then rank these translations according to their trust scores. Additionally the translations may be provided to a translator in a ranked list format.

Once the analysis module has conducted a comparison the inference module may then determine a trust score for the second translation based upon the comparison. Again if the translations are very similar to one another the inference module may assign the trust score of the first translation to the second translation.

As mentioned above the trust score assigned to the second translation may be modified. In particular the confidence level module may be executed to determine a likelihood that the trust score associated with either the first or second translation score is accurate. In some instances the confidence level module may utilize a training corpus as a basis for evaluating not only the source text but also the first and second translations. Because the training corpus includes accurate source and translation pairs the source text and first and second translations may be compared to the training corpus. If the source text and or target translations can be matched even at least partially to content included in the training corpus it can be inferred that the source text and or the target translations are likely to be accurate. Thus if the second translation has been assigned a trust score of 8.5 where zero indicates a very poor translation and a ten indicates a perfect translation and the second translation substantially matches a translation included in a training corpus the trust score of the second translation may be selectively increased to 9. As mentioned earlier a comparison of domains between source and translation content may also be utilized to modify a confidence level for either the first or second translations.

The previous examples are non limiting and therefore one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a variety of indicators or combinations of indicators may be utilized to determine a confidence level for a trust score. Again in some embodiments the confidence level may be utilized to adjust the trust score. Again it is noteworthy that the confidence level of the trust score calculated by the confidence level module may be influenced by whether the identity of the untrusted translation system is known or unknown. For example if it is known that the translation methodologies utilized by a particular translation system are highly accurate and dependable the confidence level module may adjust the confidence level of the trust score to reflect this knowledge.

Next the method may comprise a step of evaluating target language constructs included in a translation of the source text by the untrusted translation system as well as a step of determining a trust score for the translation based upon any of the translation complexity the target language constructs or combinations thereof.

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor and main memory may be connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage device and graphics display may be connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass storage device which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor . Mass storage device may store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk digital video disc or USB storage device to input and output data and code to and from the computer system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computer system via the portable storage device .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alpha numeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Graphics display may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Graphics display receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripherals devices may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computer system. Peripheral device s may include a modem or a router.

The components provided in the computer system of are those typically found in computer systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present technology and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computer system of may be a personal computer hand held computing system telephone mobile computing system workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing system. The computer may also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems may be used including Unix Linux Windows Macintosh OS Palm OS Android iPhone OS and other suitable operating systems.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. Computer readable storage media refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a central processing unit CPU a processor a microcontroller or the like. Such media may take forms including but not limited to non volatile and volatile media such as optical or magnetic disks and dynamic memory respectively. Common forms of computer readable storage media include a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic storage medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical storage medium RAM PROM EPROM a FLASHEPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. The descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the technology to the particular forms set forth herein. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments. It should be understood that the above description is illustrative and not restrictive. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the technology as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. The scope of the technology should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

