---

title: Fuel consumption calculations and warnings
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for determining whether a vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach a destination. Making such a determination may comprise, among other things, estimating an amount of fuel required to reach the destination and/or estimating a rate of consumption along a travel route. Such estimates may be based upon factors external to the vehicle, including, among other things, topology of the travel route, current and/or predicted traffic patterns along the travel route, and/or driving habits of a user or others whom have navigated a similar route (or at least a portion of the route). When it is determined that the vehicle comprises an insufficient amount of fuel, a refueling notice indicative of the determination may be provided. In one embodiment, such a refueling may also suggest possible refueling stations along the travel route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849555&OS=08849555&RS=08849555
owner: INRIX, Inc.
number: 08849555
owner_city: Kirkland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120229
---
Today many cars are equipped with a computer system configured to measure various metrics and to provide those metrics to a user via a simple user interface. For example the computer system may be configured to measure the pressure in respective tires of the vehicle to estimate a fuel range e.g. miles remaining on a tank of fuel and or to estimate fuel efficiency. These estimates and or measurements may be displayed on the dashboard providing the user with tools for evaluating car performance and or maintenance for example.

While these measurements and or estimates are useful they are often inaccurate. For example estimating a fuel range may be a function of numerous factors including driving habits road conditions terrain type of driving e.g. city or highway driving etc. that are often not taken into consideration when estimating the fuel range. Thus while displaying information about such estimates metrics may provide a user with some guidance a user should not rely on such information to determine whether s he has enough to fuel travel the stated distance to know whether the tires are properly inflated etc. In fact many such computer systems attempt to avoid such accurate information particularly with respect to estimating fuel range. Instead the computer system merely displays a low fuel notification when the estimated fuel range drops below a specified mileage e.g. below 40 miles until empty and or when the amount of fuel drops below a specified threshold e.g. of a tank .

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things systems and or techniques are described herein for determining whether a vehicle can arrive at a destination without refueling based upon considerations such as a current fuel level of the vehicle and a rate of consumption or rather an expected rate of consumption for example. The rate of consumption may take into consideration both factors internal to the vehicle and factors that are external to the vehicle. Internal factors are generally factors that can be determined at the time a vehicle is manufactured such as among other things curb weight engine size engine configurations aerodynamics of vehicle and or other variables that can influence fuel consumption and that are known at the time of manufacturing. Conversely external factors may comprise those factors that are dependent upon the environment. For example external factors that may affect fuel consumption include among other things a gross weight of the vehicle a driving style of a user of the vehicle terrain e.g. asphalt dirt gravel etc. topology of a travel route traffic along the travel route weather etc. It will be appreciated that whereas internal factors are generally relatively static external factors may vary greatly even over a short span of time.

When it is determined that the vehicle cannot arrive at a destination without refueling e.g. or cannot arrive at the destination without a specified amount of reserve fuel remaining a notice may be provided indicative of such a determination. Such a notice may also provide suggestions on locations to refuel the vehicle. In one embodiment locations may be sorted based upon among other things fuel prices at respective locations geographic and or temporal proximity relative to a travel route the vehicle takes to arrive at the destination geographic and or temporal proximity to a current location of the vehicle etc. for example.

Moreover in one embodiment the determination of whether a vehicle can arrive at a destination without refueling may be periodically and or continuously reevaluated. By way of example suppose the vehicle is to be driven to a destination 100 miles away and a travel route is identified from the vehicle s current location to the destination. Initially it may be determined that the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination given the traffic and or weather conditions of the traffic route at that time. However while in route to the destination an accident may occur along the travel route causing traffic delays that may be predicted to slow down the vehicle s progress and or may force the vehicle to alter its route. Given the changed condition the system may reevaluate whether the vehicle has a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination and may provide a refueling notice if it is determined that given the changed condition the vehicle does not have a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination. In this way initial determinations may be reevaluated as external factors e.g. traffic weather etc. change relative to their respective conditions at a time when the initial determinations were made for example.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Today many vehicles and mobile devices e.g. mobile phones tablets laptops etc. are equipped to detect their location through the inclusion of a global positioning system GPS receiver and or other receiver configured to detect other signals from which a location can be derived. In this way vehicles and or mobile devices can provide location based services that mediate the interaction of users with physical locations. For example vehicles and or mobile devices may store or be configured to retrieve detailed travel maps of a locale and may use a detected location to display the vehicle s and or mobile device s current location or to compute travel routes to intended destinations. For example such services may provide a user with information about and or directions to shops restaurants and or entertainment venues of interest within a given area.

The techniques and or systems described herein for configured to utilize this location information along with information supplied by a vehicle to determine whether a vehicle comprises sufficient fuel to reach an intended destination. By way of example a destination may be selected on the mobile device and or vehicle e.g. by a user and a travel route may be generated to guide the vehicle or an operator of the vehicle to the destination. To determine whether the vehicle comprises sufficient fuel to reach the selected destination information about the travel route e.g. such as traffic conditions weather topology etc. and information about the vehicle e.g. such as current fuel level may be collected and or predicted. When a determination is made that the vehicle comprises an insufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination a refueling notice may be provided and or a list of possible refueling stations geographically and or temporally proximate the travel route may be provided for example.

The example method begins at and a travel route for reaching the destination is identified at . Generally the travel route begins at a current location of a vehicle and ends at the destination although the travel route may begin at a location other than the current location of the vehicle and may end at a location other than the destination e.g. where the destination is merely one stop along the travel route . For example the user may specify a beginning point of the travel route and or may specify that the travel route is to begin at the current location of the vehicle.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that often times there are numerous routes that may be devised to get a user vehicle from point A to point B and thus guidelines rules may be utilized to determine which route to ultimately select identify. For example the identified route may be the shortest route the fastest route a scenic route a route that avoids toll roads etc. Moreover the user may be presented with several different possible routes and may be given the option of selecting from the possible routes and or devising a route that was not presented. In this way the travel route identified at may be identified automatically based upon user specified default criteria and or may be identified created by the user for example.

Further the destination of the travel route may be selected by a user and or may be predicted based upon historical information current time of day calendar entries in a calendar associated with the user and or other information from which a destination can be predicted devised. By way of example in one embodiment a user can perform a search for grocery stores within a specified geographic region on a location enabled device e.g. mobile device and or vehicle and select one of the search results as the destination e.g. causing a travel route to be generated from the current location of the user vehicle to the selected grocery store . In another embodiment the travel route may be based upon historical information about a user operator of the vehicle and a time of day. For example at approximately 5 pm every Monday Friday a user may leave work and travel home. Therefore if the user gets into his her vehicle at about 5 pm on a Tuesday it may be predicted that the user is intending to drive home. As such a travel route may be identified that navigates the user from his her workplace to home. Similarly if a calendar associated with the user comprises an entry for a hair appointment at 7 pm it may be surmised that the user is headed to his her hair appointment if it is approaching 7 pm. Therefore a hair studio barbershop where the user typically gets his her hair cut may be automatically selected as the destination e.g. and a travel route thereto may be identified . In this way the destination may predicted based upon among other things historical information relating to the user and or calendar information pertaining to activities of a user or may be selected specified by a user for example.

The example method further comprises at determining whether the vehicle can arrive at the destination by following the identified travel route without refueling. Such a determination is typically based upon a current fuel level of the vehicle a predicted estimated rate of consumption of the vehicle for the travel route and or an estimated amount of fuel required for completing the travel route.

It will be appreciated that there are numerous techniques for determining the current fuel level of the vehicle. One of the more basic ways to determine the fuel level may be to place one or more fuel measuring sensors inside and or spatially approximate a fuel reservoir. Measurements made by the sensors may be relayed to an onboard computer system for example configured to process the data and or to transmit the data to a device making the determination at e.g. an onboard computer system of the vehicle and or a mobile device operably coupled to the vehicle such as through Bluetooth technology for example . Another approach to determining the current fuel level may be to estimate it based upon the miles driven from the last refueling for example. It will be appreciated that these examples describe merely some of the ways in which a current fuel level of the vehicle may be determined estimated and the instant disclosure including the scope of the claims is not intended to be limited to such examples.

It will also be appreciated that as used herein fuel is intended to be interpreted broadly to describe any form of energy that may be used to power a vehicle. For example fuel may comprise tradition sources for powering a vehicle such as gasoline and or diesel and or may comprise less convention sources of power such as electric hydrogen etc. Thus the term fuel is not intended to be interpreted in a narrow sense to necessarily describe a particular source form of power.

The predicted estimated rate of consumption of the vehicle and or the estimated amount of fuel needed to complete the travel route may be a function of factors internal to the vehicle and or external to the vehicle. As described in the summary internal factors are generally factors that can be determined at the time a vehicle is manufactured such as among other things the curb weight engine size engine configurations aerodynamics of vehicle and or other variables that can influence fuel consumption and known at the time of manufacturing. Whereas external factors may comprise those factors that are dependent upon the environment application. For example external factors that may affect fuel consumption include among other things the gross weight of the vehicle a historical and or predicted driving style of a user of the vehicle terrain of the travel route e.g. asphalt dirt gravel etc. topology of a travel route known and or predicted traffic conditions along the travel route weather along the travel route a driving style of one or more other uses traveling along at least a portion of the travel route etc.

As an example suppose a user intends to travel to a destination 100 miles away. If the travel route to the destination is mostly flat and or downhill it may be predicted estimated that the vehicle is going to consume less fuel e.g. and have a lower rate of consumption e.g. 20 mpg than if the travel route is mountainous e.g. where the vehicle may have a higher rate of consumption e.g. 15 mpg . Thus the amount of fuel expended to reach the destination 100 miles away may be significantly more if the travel route is mountainous than if it is flat. As such the topology of the travel route may have a significant impact on the rate of consumption for the travel route and may impact whether a given amount of fuel is sufficient to reach the destination.

It will be appreciated that this information about the topology of the travel route information pertaining to one or more of the internal factors and or information pertaining to other external factors e.g. listed above may be derived from a plurality of different sources. As an example the internal factors may come from a computing system embedded in the vehicle from data sources that comprise vehicle information from one or more services external to the vehicle and or from a user of the vehicle. By way of example a user may input the make and model of the vehicle into a mobile device making the determination and vehicle information pertaining to that vehicle may be retrieved from a plurality of databases comprising information about the vehicle e.g. such as average fuel ratings engine type weight etc. .

Similarly the external factors may come from a computing system embedded in the vehicle one or more data sources external to the vehicle and or one or more services external to the vehicle. By way of example a computing system embedded in the vehicle may provide historical information about the driving habits of a user e.g. such as whether the user typically accelerates quickly or slowly and or may provide a prediction about the user s expected driving habits on the travel route given the historical information about the user s driving habits. Information about other external factors may come from sources remote from the vehicle. For example current traffic conditions along a travel route and or predicted traffic conditions for a particular road along the travel route at a time the vehicle is expected to be traversing the road may be acquired from a traffic monitoring service. Similarly information about the driving habits of other users that traverse one or more roads along the travel route e.g. whether they tend to drive over the speed limit brake hard accelerate rapidly etc. may be acquired from a service configured to monitor such information for example.

Thus information used to determine whether the vehicle can arrive at the destination by following the travel route without refueling may come from a plurality of sources including sources embedded in the vehicle and or sources external to the vehicle.

At in the example method a refueling notice is provided when it is determined that the vehicle cannot arrive at the destination without refueling. It will be appreciated that in one embodiment this refueling notice is not a function of how much fuel is remaining in the vehicle. Rather the refueling notice is a function of whether it is determined estimated at that the vehicle has enough fuel to reach the destination. For example the vehicle may comprise a tank of gas when the determination is made and the refueling notice is provided if it is determined at that the tank of gas is insufficient to reach the destination.

The refueling notice is generally intended to provide the user with notice that s he should plan to stop for fuel along the travel route and may provide additional information suggesting where to stop. For example the refueling notice may specify where along the travel route the vehicle is expected to run out of fuel and or may provide for display information about one or more refueling stations that the user may desire to stop at to refuel the vehicle. As an example upon determining that the vehicle cannot arrive at the destination without refueling a search may be performed to identify one or more refueling stations geographically proximate and or temporally proximate to the travel route that the user could arrive at before the fuel currently comprised in the vehicle runs out e.g. before the vehicle would have to be refueled . Results of the search may be provided to a user and or to a mobile device providing the refueling notice for display to the user. In this way the user may be provided options for refueling stations when it is determined that the vehicle will run out of run e.g. or dip into a reserve fuel before reaching the destination for example.

It will be appreciated that while the example method describes determining a travel route to a destination before determining whether a vehicle has sufficient fuel to reach the vehicle identifying a travel route to the destination may be an iterative process. For example a first travel route to the destination e.g. a fastest route may be identified and a determination may be made whether the vehicle has a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination given the first travel route. If it is determined that the vehicle does not comprise enough fuel a second travel route to the destination e.g. a next fastest route may be identified and a determination may be made whether the vehicle has a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination given the second travel route. Such a process may be repeated until a travel route is identified that would not require refueling and or until a decision is made to stop searching for such a travel route. In this way a preferred travel route may be identified as a function of a fuel level of the vehicle for example.

In the example embodiment the mobile device is operably coupled to the vehicle via a network interface such as via a Bluetooth connection or other wireless protocol and or via a USB connection or other wired connection. Moreover it will be appreciated that while the example mobile device is decoupled from the vehicle in another embodiment the mobile device may be embedded in the vehicle. For example the mobile device may be an embedded electronic system such as part of a navigation system comprised in the vehicle .

In this example presume that a destination has already been previously selected predicted and a travel route has been identified. For example the user may have specified the destination via an application on his her mobile device and the application or a service linked thereto may have identified a travel route for navigating the user from his her current location e.g. and the current location of the vehicle to the destination.

Upon such an identification as described with respect to the example method the mobile device and or application operating thereon for example may be configured to determine whether the vehicle has a sufficient amount of gas to reach the destination. As part of such a determination the mobile device may transmit to the vehicle via the network a query e.g. set of questions and await a response from the vehicle . Such a query may request information that is readily measured recorded by the vehicle e.g. and that is difficult to derive elsewhere and or less accurate to derive elsewhere . For example the illustrated query request information from the vehicle pertaining to a current fuel level of the vehicle historical driving information about the user and a make model of the vehicle .

In response to the query the vehicle may transmit to the mobile device via the network a set of responses that provide the requested information. For example in the illustrated environment the vehicle responds to the query by noting that the vehicle comprises 4 gallons of fuel that the user averages 12 mpg and that the vehicle is a Mars Van. It will be appreciated that based upon such information e.g. along with information about the identified travel route such as mileage terrain type of driving etc. e.g. which will be further described with respect to FIG. a determination may be made regarding whether the vehicle has and or is expected to have a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination.

In the illustrated environment a remote computing system is configured to make the determination e.g. in regarding whether a vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach a destination without refueling based at least in part upon information provided by the mobile device via a network e.g. such as via the internet . By way of example in the illustrated embodiment upon receiving requested information from a vehicle the mobile device may construct a request for a determination regarding refueling from the remote computing system . Such a request may comprise among other things route information such as the identified route and or vehicle information e.g. such as the vehicle information provided to the mobile device in .

Using the information comprised in the request along with information from other sources the remote computing system may be configured to determine whether the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination. For example in one embodiment the remote computing system may be configured to determine current traffic patterns and or predicted traffic patterns along the travel route e.g. which may affect fuel consumption to determine weather conditions along the travel route and or to determine the topology of the travel route using information from other sources and to combine such information with information provided by the vehicle to make a determination regarding whether refueling is necessary.

After consideration of the information provided by the mobile device via the request and or information provided by other sources e.g. such as traffic monitoring services the remote computing device may make a determination regarding refueling and may provide a refueling notice to the mobile device e.g. for display thereon when it is determined that the vehicle comprises an insufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination. It will be appreciated that in one embodiment the remote computing system may return a response to the request regardless of the determination. Moreover as described above the refueling notice may comprise more than just a simple notice. For example it may comprise a list of suggested fuel stations given the current location of the vehicle the travel route etc.

Moreover it will be appreciated that the example environment merely describes one environment for making the determination e.g. at in the example environment and is not intended to be limited as such to the extent practical. For example in another embodiment the mobile device may merely provide to the remote computing system information about a current location and a desired destination and the remote computing system may identify a travel route for reaching the destination and or may calculate an amount of fuel required to reach the destination given more limited knowledge of the vehicle e.g. such as make model of the vehicle but not current fuel level . In such an embodiment the remote computing system may provide to the mobile device the identified travel route and an estimated amount of fuel required to reach the destination. The mobile device may thus be configured to compare the estimate to a current fuel level of the vehicle to determine whether the vehicle can arrive at the destination without refueling.

In yet another embodiment information necessary to calculate an estimated rate of consumption estimated amount of fuel required for the travel route may be acquired by the mobile device without the aid of a remote computing system for example. For example the mobile device may comprise topology information about roads and or may be operably coupled to a service configured to provide traffic information about roads. In this way the mobile device may communicate with other devices while estimating a rate of consumption for the travel route and or estimating whether a vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination given its current fuel level but may not utilize a remote computing system to make calculations regarding the rate of consumption and or the amount of fuel necessary for example.

For example beginning with and as also described with respect to the mobile device may be configured to determine a travel route from a current location of the vehicle e.g. or a specified beginning location to a desired predicted destination. For example in the illustrated environment the current location of the vehicle may be represented by point A on a map displayed on the mobile device and the destination may be represented by point B. The dashed line illustrates an identified travel route for arriving at point B from point A. Thus in the illustrated embodiment the user may reach the destination by traveling along I 90.

As further described with respect to upon identification of a travel route and receipt of information about a current fuel level of the vehicle e.g. when the vehicle is at the initial location A the mobile device may be configured to transmit a request e.g. in comprising at least some of said information to a remote computing system e.g. in configured to determine whether the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination e.g. point B given the travel route. For example in this embodiment the mobile device is configured to transmit with the request the identified travel route and the current fuel level of the vehicle although as described above the request may comprise other information.

The remote computing system is configured to estimate an amount of fuel that the vehicle needs to reach the destination and or determine whether the vehicle comprise a sufficient amount of fuel. For example in the illustrated environment the remote computing system is operably coupled to a plurality of services configured to provide the remote computing system with information that may assist the remote computing system in estimating an amount of fuel required to complete the travel route and or for determining whether the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel. By way of example the remote computing system is operably coupled to a traffic service configured to provide the remote computing system with traffic information regarding current traffic patterns along the travel route and or predicted future traffic patterns at a time when the vehicle is traversing the route. For example the traffic service may provide the remote computing system with a notification that provides that at the present time traffic along I 90 between points A and B is light with the average vehicle traveling at mph.

The remote computing system may also be operably coupled with a topology service configured to provide the remote computing system with information regarding the topology of the travel route. For example in the illustrated environment the topology service may be configured to provide the remote computing system with a notification that indicates that I 90 has a moderate incline from A to B e.g. which may cause the vehicle to consume more gas than if it was not sloped and or sloping downward .

Using the information provided by the mobile device the traffic service and or the topology service the remote computing device may determine that the vehicle is expected to consume 6.5 gallons of fuel and or that the vehicle is expected to be able to arrive at the destination without needing to refuel e.g. given that the mobile device indicated that the vehicle comprised 7.8 gallons of fuel . Such a determination may be transmitted in the form of a response to the mobile device . In this way the remote computing device may provide the mobile device with information regarding its determination for example.

In one embodiment the mobile device is configured to periodically contact a remote computing system e.g. in and check in e.g. providing the remote computing system with the remaining amount of fuel and or current location along the travel route . For example in the illustrated environment the mobile device provides to the remote computing system an update describing where the vehicle is located along the travel route and providing an indication that 5.2 gallons of fuel remains in the vehicle.

The remote computing system may also be configured to receive traffic updates from a traffic service e.g. in describing changes in conditions along the travel route. For example in the illustrated environment the traffic service may provide a notice indicating that traffic along I 90 has increased substantially e.g. due to an accident ahead relative to traffic during an initial check e.g. as described in . The remote computing system may recognize this change and recalculate the amount of fuel the vehicle is expected to consume from its current location to the destination given the change in traffic pattern and may provide a refueling notice to the mobile device if a determination is made that the vehicle no longer comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to complete the journey. For example in the illustrated environment the remote computing device provides notice indicating the due to the change in traffic patterns the remote computing service expects the vehicle to run out of fuel before reaching the destination.

It will be appreciated that in one embodiment such a notice may also comprise one or more suggestions on where a user can stop to refuel the vehicle. For example the notice may identify refueling stations proximate the travel route and within a distance the vehicle is capable of reaching without running out of fuel. In one embodiment such refueling stations may be filtered sorted according to gas prices at respective refueling stations temporal and or spatial proximity to the travel route temporal and or spatial proximity to a current location of the vehicle etc. etc.

It will also be appreciated that illustrates merely a simplistic example of how the determination regarding refueling may change as a function of changes to external factors e.g. traffic patterns weather conditions user s driving habits driving habits of others along the travel route etc. . For example in another embodiment upon detection in a change in the traffic pattern along the route the remote computing device may recalculate routes to determine a best e.g. fastest route for the user to take and may recalculate whether the vehicle comprises sufficient fuel to reach the destination given the new update route e.g. after topology and or traffic considerations of the new updated route are taken into account .

The example method begins at and an amount of fuel necessary to reach a destination from a current location of a vehicle is estimated at . Stated differently a travel route is identified as described above and one or more estimates are made regarding how much fuel it will take for a given vehicle to reach the destination. Such estimates may take into account internal factors related to the vehicle and or external factors related to among other things the user of the vehicle and or the travel route. For example internal factors may comprise information about the vehicle including but not limited to aerodynamics engine performance curb weight and or fuel ratings e.g. estimated consumption in the city and or on the highway . External factors may include among other things known and or predicted current and or future traffic patterns along the travel route topology of the travel route e.g. mountainous flat downhill etc. historical and or predicted driving style of the user operating the vehicle and or the driving style of one or more other users that travel on at least a portion of the route e.g. such as whether other users on average tend to accelerate rapid drive in excess of the speed limit etc. . It will be appreciated that the listed internal and or external factors are not intended to describe an exhaustive list. Rather they are merely intended to provide some examples of factors that may be considered and that can influence fuel consumption of a vehicle.

At in the example method it is determined whether the vehicle comprises the estimated amount of fuel. That is stated differently the estimated amount of fuel is compared to the current fuel level of the vehicle to determine whether the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination. It will be appreciated that techniques for determined predicting the amount of fuel a vehicle comprises are described above and therefore for purposes of brevity are not being described here.

At in the example method a refueling notice is provided when it is determined that the vehicle comprises less fuel than the estimated amount of fuel necessary to teach the destination. In other words a refueling notice is provided e.g. for display to a user when it is determined that the vehicle cannot arrive at the destination without refueling.

It will be appreciated that as described above the notice may be as simple as an indication of the determination and or may comprise other information that may be useful to the user. For example the refueling notice may comprise one or more suggested locations for refueling arranged according to some criteria e.g. fuel cost proximity to user proximity to travel route etc. . In this way when it is determined that the vehicle does not comprise enough fuel to reach the destination the user may be provided with sufficient information to decide where to stop for fuel for example.

As illustrated the example system comprises a route planner component configured to identify a travel route for a vehicle. As described above the travel route may begin at the current location of the vehicle or at a location designated by the user and may end a specified predicted destination. For example in one embodiment the user may choose the beginning and or ending locations of the travel route. In another embodiment the beginning location may be designed as a current location of the vehicle or mobile device sensing signals from which a location can be derived and the destination can be predicted based upon among other things historical patterns of a user time of day and or one or more entries comprised in a calendar associated with the user for example. It will be appreciated that these are just a few of the many considerations that may be taken into account when planning a travel route and that other considerations known to those skilled in the art are also contemplated.

The example system also comprises a vehicle data component configured to receive data from the vehicle e.g. or an embedded computer thereon . For example as described above the vehicle may monitor metrics such as current fuel level historical driving habits tire inflation levels and or other information that may be readily determined from sensors embedded in the vehicle and or calculated from information provided by sensors. At least some of this information collected by the vehicle and or sensors thereon may be transmitted to the vehicle data component for example.

It will be appreciated that as further detailed above the system may be embedded in the vehicle may be a mobile device operably coupled to the vehicle and or may be a remote computing system. As such how and or from where the vehicle data component receives the vehicle data may depend upon among other things where the system is located. For example where the vehicle data component is embedded in the vehicle the vehicle data component may receive information directly from sensors in the vehicle and or from another computer system embedded in the vehicle. In another embodiment where the vehicle data component is comprised in a mobile device operably coupled to the vehicle the vehicle data may be transmitted to the vehicle data component from a computer system embedded in the vehicle. In yet another embodiment where the system is located in a remote computing system the vehicle data component may be configured to receive such information from the vehicle and or from a mobile device operably coupled to the vehicle for example. Thus the vehicle data component does not necessarily have to receive the data directly from the vehicle itself but rather may receive the data from an intermediary receiver of such data e.g. such as a mobile device for example.

The example system also comprises a fuel determination component configured to receive among other things the travel route information from the route planner component and the vehicle data information from the vehicle data component . Using such information along with other information that may be determined about the travel route the user of the vehicle etc. for example the fuel determination component may be configured to determine whether the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination via the travel route without refueling. By way of example the fuel determination component may be operably coupled with a traffic service configured to provide traffic updates predictions regarding traffic conditions along the travel route a weather service configured to provide weather information about the travel route a topology service configured to provide information about a topology of the route etc. Such information as further detailed above may be useful in making a determination regarding whether the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel. In this way using information about the travel route the fuel determination component can estimate the amount of fuel required to make the trip and or estimate rate of consumption for the trip for example.

It will be appreciated that the fuel determination component may also be configured to continuously and or periodically refine update an initial determination regarding whether the vehicle comprises a sufficient amount of fuel. For example if a factor e.g. such as traffic weather etc. that was considered during an initial determination changes after the initial determination the fuel determination component may be configured to recalculate the estimated amount of fuel and or the rate of consumption based upon the change e.g. to further refine the determination given the increased decreased traffic for example .

The example system further comprises a notice component configured to provide a refueling notice when the fuel determination component determines that the vehicle comprises an insufficient amount of fuel to reach the destination. Such a refueling notice is intended to provide an indication to the user that a refueling may be required along the travel route and may be displayed on a display embedded in the vehicle and or on a mobile device associated with the user for example.

Moreover while not illustrated in the example system in one embodiment the system can also comprise a refueling station component configured to identify refueling stations that that the vehicle can arrive at before running out of fuel and or that are in close geographic and or temporal proximity to the travel route. Such a component may also be configured to sort the identified refueling stations according to some predetermined criteria e.g. such as by fuel prices at respective stations temporal proximity to route temporal proximity to vehicle etc. and to provide the sorted results to the notice component . In this way the notice component can be configured to provide a refueling notice that further comprises suggestions on where a vehicle can stop to refuel without substantially deviating from the travel route for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based at least in part upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

