---

title: Determine reference motion vectors
abstract: A method for encoding a video stream having a plurality of blocks including a current block. The method includes identifying, from a plurality of previously coded blocks, a plurality of candidate motion vectors; identifying, for the current block, a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously coded pixel values; determining, for at least one of the plurality of candidate motion vectors, an error value based on the set of reconstructed pixel values and a set of predicted values for the set of previously coded pixel values; and selecting, from the plurality of candidate motion vectors, a reference motion vector for the current block based on the error value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503746&OS=09503746&RS=09503746
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09503746
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121008
---
Digital video streams may represent video using a sequence of frames or still images. Digital video can be used for various applications including for example video conferencing high definition video entertainment video advertisements or sharing of user generated videos. A digital video stream can contain a large amount of data and consume a significant amount of computing or communication resources of a computing device for processing transmission or storage of the video data. Various approaches have been proposed to reduce the amount of data in video streams including compression and other encoding techniques.

Implementations of systems methods and apparatuses for encoding and decoding a video signal using reference motion vector are disclosed herein. One aspect of the disclosed implementations is a method for encoding a video stream having a plurality of blocks including a current block. The method includes identifying from a plurality of previously coded blocks a plurality of candidate motion vectors identifying for the current block a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously coded pixel values determining for at least one of the plurality of candidate motion vectors an error value based on the set of reconstructed pixel values and a set of predicted values for the set of previously coded pixel values and selecting from the plurality of candidate motion vectors a reference motion vector for the current block based on the error value.

Another aspect of the disclosed implementations is a method for decoding an encoded video stream having a plurality of blocks including a current block. The method includes identifying from a plurality of previously decoded blocks a plurality of candidate motion vectors identifying for the current block a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously coded pixel values determining for at least one of the plurality of candidate motion vectors an error value based on the set of reconstructed pixel values and a set of predicted values for the set of previously decoded pixel values and selecting from the plurality of candidate motion vectors a reference motion vector for the current block based on the error value.

Another aspect of the disclosed implementations is an apparatus for encoding a video stream having a plurality of blocks including a current block. The apparatus includes a memory and a processor configured to execute instructions stored in the memory to identify from a plurality of previously coded blocks a plurality of candidate motion vectors identify for the current block a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously coded pixel values determine for at least one of the plurality of candidate motion vectors an error value based on the set of reconstructed pixel values and a set of predicted values for the set of previously coded pixel values and select from the plurality of candidate motion vectors a reference motion vector for the current block based on the error value.

Digital video is used for various purposes including for example remote business meetings via video conferencing high definition video entertainment video advertisements or sharing of user generated videos. Video encoding and decoding codec can use various compression schemes. These compression schemes may include breaking a video image into blocks and generating a digital video output bitstream using one or more techniques to limit the information included in the output. A received bitstream can be decoded to re create the blocks and the source images from the limited information.

Encoding a video stream or a portion thereof such as a frame or a block can include using temporal and spatial similarities in the video stream to improve coding efficiency. For example a current block of a video stream may be encoded based on a previously encoded block in the video stream by predicting motion and color information for the current block based on the previously encoded block and identifying a difference residual between the predicted values and the current block.

Inter prediction can include determining a motion vector for encoding a block based on a corresponding block in a reference frame of the video stream. For example the motion vector can be identified using a method of motion estimation such as a motion search. For video compression schemes the number of bits used to encode the motion vectors can be significant especially for video streams encoded at lower data rates or higher compression ratios. To improve the encoding efficiency a motion vector can be differentially encoded using a reference motion vector i.e. only the difference between the motion vector and the reference motion vector is encoded. In some instances the reference motion vector can be selected from previously used motion vectors in the video stream for example the last non zero motion vector from neighboring blocks.

In implementations of this disclosure a reference motion vector can be selected from candidate motion vectors based on a match score also referred to error value . For example the match score can be based on the results of using the candidate motion vectors to predict a trial set of previously coded pixel values close to the current block. Since the trial set has already been encoded and reconstructed the predicted values can be compared against the corresponding reconstructed values to determine the match score. Due to the proximity of the trial set to the current block it is likely that the current block has similar motion characteristics. Thus a candidate motion vector that is the best match in predicting the trial set is likely to closely resemble the actual motion vector determined for the current block which has similar motion characteristics. When the reference motion vector selected as the candidate motion vector closely resembles the actual motion vector fewer bits can be used to code the motion vector thus improving the overall coding efficiency.

A network connects transmitting station and a receiving station for encoding and decoding of the video stream. Specifically the video stream can be encoded in transmitting station and the encoded video stream can be decoded in receiving station . Network can be for example the Internet. Network can also be a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN a cellular telephone network or any other means of transferring the video stream from transmitting station to in this example receiving station .

Receiving station can in one example be a computer having an internal configuration of hardware including a processor such as a CPU and a memory . CPU is a controller for controlling the operations of receiving station . CPU can be connected to memory by for example a memory bus. Memory can be ROM RAM or any other suitable memory device. Memory can store data and program instructions that are used by CPU . Other suitable implementations of receiving station are possible. For example the processing of receiving station can be distributed among multiple devices.

A display configured to display a video stream can be connected to receiving station . Display can be implemented in various ways including by a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or a light emitting diode display LED such as an OLED display. Display is coupled to CPU and can be configured to display a rendering of the video stream decoded in receiving station .

Other implementations of the encoder and decoder system are also possible. For example one implementation can omit network and or display . In another implementation a video stream can be encoded and then stored for transmission at a later time by receiving station or any other device having memory. In one implementation receiving station receives e.g. via network a computer bus or some communication pathway the encoded video stream and stores the video stream for later decoding. In another implementation additional components can be added to the encoder and decoder system . For example a display or a video camera can be attached to transmitting station to capture the video stream to be encoded.

At the next level single frame can be divided into a set of blocks which can contain data corresponding to in some of the examples described below a 8 8 pixel group in frame . Block can also be of any other suitable size such as a block of 16 8 pixels a block of 8 8 pixels a block of 16 16 pixels a block of 4 4 pixels or of any other size. Unless otherwise noted the term block can include a macroblock a subblock i.e. a subdivision of a macroblock a segment a slice a residual block or any other portion of a frame. A frame a block a pixel or a combination thereof can include display information such as luminance information chrominance information or any other information that can be used to store modify communicate or display the video stream or a portion thereof.

When video stream is presented for encoding each frame within video stream can be processed in units of blocks. Referring to at intra inter prediction stage each block can be encoded using either intra prediction i.e. within a single frame or inter prediction i.e. from frame to frame . In either case a prediction block can be formed. The prediction block is then subtracted from the block to produce a residual block also referred to herein as residual .

Intra prediction also referred to herein as intra prediction or intra frame prediction and inter prediction also referred to herein as inter prediction or inter frame prediction are techniques used in modern image video compression schemes. In the case of intra prediction a prediction block can be formed from samples in the current frame that have been previously encoded and reconstructed. In the case of inter prediction a prediction block can be formed from samples in one or more previously constructed reference frames.

The prediction block is then subtracted from the block the difference i.e. the residual is then encoded and transmitted to decoders. Image or video codecs may support many different intra and inter prediction modes each image block can use one of the prediction modes to provide a prediction block that is most similar to the block to minimize the information to be encoded in the residual. The prediction mode for each block of transform coefficients can also be encoded and transmitted so a decoder can use same prediction mode s to form prediction blocks in the decoding and reconstruction process.

The prediction mode can be selected from one of multiple intra prediction modes. The multiple intra prediction modes can include for example DC prediction mode horizontal prediction mode vertical prediction mode and true motion prediction mode which can also be referred to as TM PRED . In one implementation of DC prediction mode a single value using the average of the pixels in a row above a current block and a column to the left of the current block can be used to predict the current block. In one implementation of horizontal prediction each column of a current block can be filled with a copy of a column to the left of the current block. In one implementation of vertical prediction each row of a current block can be filled with a copy of a row above the current block. In one implementation of TrueMotion prediction in addition to the row above the current block and the column to the left of the current block TM PRED uses the pixel P above and to the left of the block. Horizontal differences between pixels in the row above the current block starting from P are propagated using the pixels from the column to the left of the current block to start each row. Other intra prediction modes can also be used.

The prediction mode can also be selected from one of multiple inter prediction modes using one or more reference frames including for example last frame golden frame alternative reference frame or any other reference frame in an encoding scheme. The inter prediction modes can include for example ZERO MV mode in which a block from the same location within a reference frame is used as the prediction block NEW MV mode in which a motion vector is transmitted to indicate the location of a block within a reference frame to be used as the prediction block NEAREST MV mode in which no motion vector is transmitted and the current block uses the last non zero motion vector used by previously coded blocks to generate the prediction block. When an inter prediction mode of NEW MV is selected a motion vector can be encoded which describes the position of the prediction block relative to the current block e.g. offsets of the coordinates .

Next still referring to transform stage transforms the residual into a block of transform coefficients in for example the frequency domain. Examples of block based transforms include the Karhunen Lo ve Transform KLT the Discrete Cosine Transform DCT Walsh Hadamard Transform WHT and the Singular Value Decomposition Transform SVD . In one example the DCT transforms the block into the frequency domain. In the case of DCT the transform coefficient values are based on spatial frequency with the lowest frequency e.g. DC coefficient at the top left of the matrix and the highest frequency coefficient at the bottom right of the matrix.

Quantization stage converts the block of transform coefficients into discrete quantum values which are referred to as quantized transform coefficients using a quantizer value or quantization levels. The quantized transform coefficients are then entropy encoded by entropy encoding stage . The entropy encoded coefficients together with other information used to decode the block which can include for example the type of prediction used motion vectors and quantization value are then output to compressed bitstream . Compressed bitstream can be formatted using various techniques such as variable length encoding VLC and arithmetic coding. Compressed bitstream can also be referred to as an encoded video stream and the terms will be used interchangeably herein.

The reconstruction path in shown by the dotted connection lines can be used to provide both encoder and a decoder described below with the same reference frames to decode compressed bitstream . The reconstruction path performs functions that are similar to functions that take place during the decoding process that are discussed in more detail below including dequantizing the quantized transform coefficients at dequantization stage to generate dequantized transform coefficients and inverse transforming the dequantized transform coefficients at inverse transform stage to produce a derivative residual block i.e. derivative residual . At reconstruction stage the prediction block that was predicted at intra inter prediction stage can be added to the derivative residual to create a reconstructed block. In some implementations loop filtering stage can be applied to the reconstructed block to reduce distortion such as blocking artifacts.

Other variations of encoder can be used. For example a non transform based encoder can quantize the residual block directly without transform stage . In another implementation an encoder can have quantization stage and dequantization stage combined into a single stage.

Decoder similar to the reconstruction path of encoder discussed above includes in one example the following stages to perform various functions to produce an output video stream from compressed bitstream an entropy decoding stage a dequantization stage an inverse transform stage an intra inter prediction stage a reconstruction stage a loop filtering stage and a deblocking filtering stage . Other structural variations of decoder can be used to decode compressed bitstream .

When compressed bitstream is presented for decoding the data elements within compressed bitstream can be decoded by the entropy decoding stage using for example Context Adaptive Binary Arithmetic Decoding to produce a set of quantized transform coefficients. Dequantization stage dequantizes the quantized transform coefficients and inverse transform stage inverse transforms the dequantized transform coefficients to produce a derivative residual that can be identical to that created by reconstruction stage in encoder . Using header information decoded from compressed bitstream decoder can use intra inter prediction stage to create the same prediction block as was created in encoder e.g. at intra inter prediction stage .

At reconstruction stage the prediction block can be added to the derivative residual to create a reconstructed block that can be identical to the block created by reconstruction stage in encoder . In some implementations loop filtering stage can be applied to the reconstructed block to reduce blocking artifacts. Deblocking filtering stage can be applied to the reconstructed block to reduce blocking distortion and the result is output as output video stream . Output video stream can also be referred to as a decoded video stream and the terms will be used interchangeably herein.

Other variations of decoder can be used to decode compressed bitstream . For example decoder can produce output video stream without deblocking filtering stage .

Method of operation can be implemented using specialized hardware or firmware. Some computing devices can have multiple memories multiple processors or both. The steps of method of operation can be distributed using different processors memories or both. Use of the terms processor or memory in the singular encompasses computing devices that have one processor or one memory as well as devices that have multiple processors or multiple memories that can each be used in the performance of some or all of the recited steps.

Implementations of method of operation can include for example receiving a video stream having blocks of video data including a current block at a step identifying candidate motion vectors from previously coded blocks at a step identifying a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously coded pixel values at a step determining for at least one candidate motion vector an error value based on a set of predicted values and the set of reconstructed pixel values at a step selecting a reference motion vector from the candidate motion vectors based on the error value at a step and encoding a motion vector using the reference motion vector at a step .

At step a video stream having multiple blocks of video data can be received by a computing device such as transmitting station . The video stream can include multiple frames including a current frame the current frame can include multiple blocks including a current block. Received as used herein includes acquired obtained read or received in any manner whatsoever. The video data or stream can be received in any number of ways such as by receiving the video data over a network over a cable or by reading the video data from a primary memory or other storage device including a disk drive or removable media such as a CompactFlash CF card Secure Digital SD card or any other device capable of communicating video data. In some implementations video data can be received from a video camera connected to the computing device.

At step multiple candidate motion vectors can be identified from previously coded blocks in the video stream. The previously coded blocks in the video stream can include any block encoded using inter prediction prior to the current block such as a block from previously coded frames or a block from the same frame as the current block that has been encoded prior to the current block. For example in some codec schemes such as the ones that use raster scanned coding the previously coded blocks can include a block above to the left or to the above left of the current block in the same frame. The previously coded blocks can also include for example a block from the immediately previous frame i.e. last frame a block from the golden frame described at intra inter prediction stage a block from any other reference frame or any combination thereof. The motion vectors from the previously coded blocks can be identified as candidate motion vectors which can be used to determine the reference motion vector for the current block.

At step a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously coded pixel values can be identified. In some implementations the set of previously coded pixel values can include one or more rows of pixel values above the current block or one or more columns of pixel values to the left of the current block or both. For simplicity the following examples are described using data in the two rows immediately above and the two columns immediately to the left of the current block. In other implementations data from rows or columns not immediately adjacent to the current block including data from blocks that are not adjacent to the current block can be included in the set of previously coded pixel values. Due to the proximity of the set of previously coded pixel values to the current block it is likely that the current block has similar motion characteristics as the set of previously coded pixel values. The set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to the set of previously coded pixel values can be determined for example using the reconstruction path in at encoder .

At step an error value can be determined for at least one of the candidate motion vectors based on the set of reconstructed pixel values and a set of predicted values for the set of previously coded pixel values.

The candidate motion vectors can be the candidate motion vectors identified at step . The set of predicted values can be determined based on a reference frame by applying a candidate motion vector to the set of previously coded pixel values see for an example . For the candidate motion vector the error value also referred to herein as match score can be determined by comparing the set of predicted pixel values against the set of reconstructed pixel values identified at step . Step can be implemented for example at intra inter prediction stage of encoder in .

In some implementations step determines for each candidate motion vector a corresponding set of predicted values for the set of previously coded pixel values. Then an error value or match score can be determined for each candidate motion vector based on a difference between the set of predicted values and the set of reconstructed pixel values obtained at step .

The error value or match score can be determined using metrics such as sum of absolute difference SAD sum of squared error SSE mean squared error MSE or any other error metric. For example when SAD is used the set of predicted values can be compared against the set of reconstructed pixel values to determine the SAD value for each motion vector. In some implementations different weights can be associated with different pixels in the set of previously coded pixel values. For example more weight can be given to the row or column of pixels immediately adjacent to the current block or less weight can be given to the row or column of pixels further away from the current block.

At step a reference motion vector can be selected for the current block from the candidate motion vectors. The selection can be based on for example selecting the candidate motion vector associated with the best match score which can be for example the candidate motion vector with the lowest error value among all the candidate motion vectors. Other selection criteria can also be used.

At step in some implementations a motion vector can be encoded for the current block using the reference motion vector selected at step . The motion vector can be determined for the current block using any motion compensation technique. The encoded motion vector can be stored or transmitted in the encoded video stream .

In one implementation the reference motion vector selected at step can be used to differentially encode the motion vector for the current block. For example a difference value can be calculated by subtracting the reference motion vector from the motion vector which can be encoded.

In another implementation the reference motion vector can be used to identify a probability distribution which can be used to encode a magnitude value of the motion vector for the current block.

In another implementation the reference motion vector can be used as the motion vector for encoding or decoding of the current block. When the difference between the reference motion vector and the motion vector is small or zero difference in prediction results between using the reference motion vector and the motion vector is also small or zero . In such cases the motion vector may not be encoded.

Although not shown in the residual which can be determined based on the difference between the current block and the predicted values for the current block using the motion vector such as the motion vector determined at step can be encoded. For example the residual can be quantized at quantization stage of entropy coded at entropy encoding stage and can be stored or transmitted in the encoded video stream . The encoded video stream can be transmitted stored further processed or a combination thereof. For example the encoded video stream can be stored in a memory such as the memory or shown in . The encoded video stream can also be transmitted to a decoder such as the decoder shown in .

Method of operation is depicted and described as a series of steps. However steps in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders or concurrently. For example the set of previously coded pixel values in step can be identified before or concurrently with the candidate motion vectors in step . Additionally steps in accordance with this disclosure may occur with other steps not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a method of transform domain intra prediction. For example the motion vector for the current block may not be encoded.

As seen in the set of predicted values can be determined for the set of previously coded pixel values using candidate motion vector . Based on the offsets indicated by candidate motion vector rows A B can be predicted by rows A B in reference frame and columns C D can be predicted by columns C D in reference frame . As described above in step an error value can be determined for candidate motion vector . For example the set of predicted values A D can be compared against the set of reconstructed values for the set of pixel values A D to determine the error value. Error values can be similarly determined for other candidate motion vectors not shown in . As described above in step the candidate motion vector associated with the lowest error value can be selected as the reference motion vector. For example if it is determined that candidate motion vector has the lowest error value among the candidate motion vectors candidate motion vector can be selected as the reference motion vector which can be used to encode the motion vector for current block .

Implementations of decoding the encoded video stream can include for example receiving encoded video stream at a step identifying an encoded block from an encoded frame at a step identifying candidate motion vectors from previously decoded blocks in the video stream at a step identifying a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously decoded pixel values at a step determining an error value based on a set of predicted values for the set previously decoded pixel values and the set of reconstructed pixel values at a step selecting a reference motion vector based the error value at a step and decoding a motion vector using the reference motion vector at a step .

At step a computing device such as receiving station may receive encoded video stream such as compressed bitstream . The encoded video stream which may be referred to herein as the encoded video data can be received in any number of ways such as by receiving the video data over a network over a cable or by reading the video data from a primary memory or other storage device including a disk drive or removable media such as a DVD CompactFlash CF card Secure Digital SD card or any other device capable of communicating a video stream.

At step an encoded block can be identified from an encoded frame in the encoded video stream. The encoded block can be for example a block that has been encoded at encoder using any of the prediction techniques described herein such as vertical prediction mode or horizontal prediction mode. The encoded block can be referred to as the current block.

At step multiple candidate motion vectors can be identified from previously decoded blocks in the video stream. The previously decoded blocks can include any block decoded prior to the current block such as a previously decoded block from the same frame as the current block or any block from any previously decoded frame. For example in codec schemes that use raster scanned coding previously decoded blocks can include a block above the current block in the same frame a block to the left of the current block in the current frame a block to the above left of the current block in the current frame a block from a reference frame such as a block from the last frame at the same location as the current block or a block from the golden frame or any combination thereof. The motion vectors from previously decoded blocks can be identified as candidate motion vectors for the current block.

At step a set of reconstructed pixel values corresponding to a set of previously decoded pixel values can be identified. In some implementations the set of previously decoded pixel values can include one or more rows of pixel values above the current block or one or more columns of pixel values to the left of the current block or both. In the examples described in the set of previously decoded pixel values includes data in the two rows immediately above the current block and data in the two columns immediately to the left of the current block. In other implementations data from rows or columns not immediately adjacent to the current block including data from blocks that are not adjacent to the current block can be included in the set of previously decoded pixel values.

At step an error value can be determined for at least one of the candidate motion vectors based on the set of reconstructed pixel values and a set of predicted values for the set of previously decoded pixel values. The at least one candidate motion vector can be applied to the set of previously decoded pixel values to determine the set of predicted values from a reference frame. Then the set of predicted pixel values can be compared against the set of reconstructed pixel values from step to determine the error value i.e. match score for that candidate motion vector. Step can be implemented for example at intra inter prediction stage of decoder in .

In some implementations step determines for each candidate motion vector a corresponding set of predicted values for the set of previously decoded pixel values based on the candidate motion vector. Then for each candidate motion vector an error value can be determined based on a difference between the set of predicted values and the set of reconstructed pixel values.

The match scores can be determined using metrics such as sum of absolute difference SAD sum of squared error SSE mean squared error MSE or any other error metric. In some implementations different weights can be associated with pixels in the set of previously decoded pixel values when determining the match scores. For example more weight can be given to the row or column of pixels immediately adjacent to the current block and less weight can be given to the row or column of pixels further away from the current block.

At step a reference motion vector can be selected for the current block from the candidate motion vectors. The selection can be based on for example selecting the candidate motion vector associated with the best match score such as the candidate motion vector with the lowest error value among all the candidate motion vectors.

At step a motion vector can be decoded for the current block using the reference motion vector selected at step .

In some implementations the reference motion vector can be used to differentially decode the motion vector for the current block. For example a difference value can be decoded for the current block which can be added to the reference motion vector selected at step to determine the motion vector.

In some other implementations the reference motion vector can be used to identify a probability distribution which can be used to decode a magnitude value of the motion vector for the current block.

In some other implementations the reference motion vector can be used as the motion vector for the current block. When the difference between the reference motion vector and the motion vector is small or zero difference in prediction results between using the reference motion vector and the motion vector is also small or zero . For example the motion vector may not have been encoded and the reference motion vector may be used by the decoder as the motion vector for the current block.

The encoded current block can be entropy decoded at entropy decoding stage dequantized at dequantization stage and inverse transformed at inverse transform stage to determine a derived residual. The derived residual can be added to the predicted values using the motion vector decoded or otherwise determined for the current block to reconstruct the current block at reconstruction stage . A frame can be reconstructed from the blocks derived from the reconstructed residual and the predicted values by intra or inter prediction or both. The output can be an output video stream such as the output video stream shown in and may be referred to as a decoded video stream.

Method of operation is depicted and described as a series of steps. However steps in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders or concurrently. For example the set of previously coded pixel values in step can be identified before or concurrently with the candidate motion vectors in step . Additionally steps in accordance with this disclosure may occur with other steps not presented and described herein. Furthermore not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a method in accordance with the disclosed subject matter.

The implementations of encoding and decoding described above illustrate some exemplary encoding and decoding techniques. However encoding and decoding as those terms are used herein could mean compression decompression transformation or any other processing or change of data.

The words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as example or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X includes A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X includes A X includes B or X includes both A and B then X includes A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Moreover use of the term an implementation or one implementation or an implementation or one implementation throughout is not intended to mean the same implementation or implementation unless described as such.

A computing device implementing the techniques disclosed herein and the algorithms methods instructions etc. stored thereon and or executed thereby can be realized in hardware software or any combination thereof including for example IP cores ASICS programmable logic arrays optical processors programmable logic controllers microcode microcontrollers servers microprocessors digital signal processors or any other suitable circuit or other information processing device now existing or hereafter developed. In the claims the term processor should be understood as encompassing any of the foregoing hardware either singly or in combination. The terms signal and data are used interchangeably.

Further in some implementations for example the techniques described herein can be implemented using a general purpose computer processor with a computer program that when executed carries out any of the respective methods algorithms and or instructions described herein. In addition or alternatively for example a special purpose computer processor can be utilized which can contain specialized hardware for carrying out any of the methods algorithms or instructions described herein.

In some implementations transmitting station and receiving station can for example be implemented on computers in a screencasting system. Alternatively transmitting station can be implemented on a server and receiving station or can be implemented on a device separate from the server such as a hand held communications device i.e. a cell phone . In this instance transmitting station can encode content using an encoder into an encoded video signal and transmit the encoded video signal to the communications device. In turn the communications device can then decode the encoded video signal using a decoder . Alternatively the communications device can decode content stored locally on the communications device i.e. content that was not transmitted by transmitting station . Other suitable transmitting station and receiving station implementation schemes are available. For example receiving station can be a generally stationary personal computer rather than a portable communications device and or a device including an encoder may also include a decoder .

Further all or a portion of implementations of the present invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from for example a computer usable or computer readable medium. A computer usable or computer readable medium can be any device that can for example tangibly contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with any processor. The medium can be for example an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or a semiconductor device. Other suitable mediums are also available.

The above described embodiments implementations and aspects have been described in order to allow easy understanding of the present invention and do not limit the present invention. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the scope of the appended claims which scope is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structure as is permitted under the law.

