---

title: Messaging account selection
abstract: Described herein are techniques and systems for selecting a messaging account for transmission of a message. A request to send a message is received. The message is associated with one or more of a plurality of message accounts. Based at least in part on the association, one of the plurality of message accounts is selected to send the message. This selection may be free from user intervention.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949353&OS=08949353&RS=08949353
owner: 
number: 08949353
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120413
---
Users may have several messaging accounts which are utilized for sending messages. When several messaging accounts are accessible to the user confusion inconvenience or inattention may result in erroneous selection of a messaging account for use in transmission of a message. As a result a message may be inadvertently sent from an incorrect messaging account.

Users send messages from more user devices such as smartphones laptops desktops televisions and so forth. For a variety of reasons including but not limited to convenience organization compliance with legal or regulatory requirements and so forth users may have several messaging accounts. For example the user may have a work email account a personal email account a home business email account and so forth. Each of these messaging accounts may be used for different purposes and in some cases use of a particular account may convey various meanings or implications.

When several messaging accounts are accessible to the user confusion inconvenience or inattention may result in erroneous selection of a messaging account for use in transmission of a message. As a result a message may be inadvertently sent from an incorrect or otherwise undesired messaging account. This may result in miscommunication non compliance with operating procedures or regulations and so forth. For example a government employee may be required to use a government work related account which is subject to archiving and monitoring by the government when exchanging information about a government contract. By inadvertently sending a message from a personal messaging account rather than the work messaging account the employee may inadvertently violate this requirement.

This disclosure describes systems and techniques related to selecting one message account from a plurality of message accounts to transmit a message. This selection may be fully automatic or in some implementations involve confirmation or manual selection by the user. As described herein one or more message attributes of the message are associated with one or more message account parameters. This association may include generation of a confidence level which indicates how well the message corresponds to a particular message account. In one implementation a message account with a highest confidence level and which is above a pre determined threshold may be automatically selected. In another implementation a message account with a highest relative confidence level may be automatically selected. The association may be improved over time using a variety of machine learning techniques such as probabilistic analysis as well as manual user inputs.

The processor may comprise one or more cores and is configured to access and execute at least in part instructions stored in the one or more memories . The one or more memories comprise one or more computer readable storage media CRSM . The one or more memories may include but are not limited to random access memory RAM flash RAM magnetic media optical media and so forth. The one or more memories may be volatile in that information is retained while providing power or non volatile in that information is retained without providing power.

The display is configured to present visual information to the user . The display may comprise a reflective or emissive display configured to present images which appear to be two or three dimensional to the user . An emissive display emits light to form an image. Emissive displays include but are not limited to backlit liquid crystal displays plasma displays cathode ray tubes light emitting diodes image projectors and so forth. Reflective displays use incident light to form an image. This incident light may be provided by the sun general illumination in the room a reading light and so forth. Reflective displays include but are not limited to electrophoretic displays interferometric displays cholesteric displays and so forth. The display may be configured to present images in monochrome color or both. In some implementations the display of the user device may use emissive reflective or combination displays with emissive and reflective elements.

The one or more input output interfaces may also be provided in the user device . These I O interfaces allow for coupling devices such as keyboards joysticks touch sensors cameras microphones speakers haptic output devices external memory and so forth to the user device .

The one or more communication interfaces provide for the transfer of data between the user device and another device directly such as in a peer to peer fashion via a network or both. The communication interfaces may include but are not limited to personal area networks PANs wired local area networks LANs wireless local area networks WLANs wireless wide area network WWANs and so forth. The communication interfaces may utilize acoustic radio frequency optical or other signals to exchange data between the user device and another device such as an access point a host computer a router a reader device another user device and the like.

The one or more memories may store instructions for execution by the processor to perform certain actions or functions. These instructions may include an operating system configured to manage hardware resources such as the I O interfaces and provide various services to applications executing on the processor . The one or more memories may also store a datastore containing information about the operating system messaging account information messages configuration files and so forth. The datastore and contents thereof are discussed below in more detail with regard to .

A messaging application is stored in the one or more memories . The messaging application may comprise an email client short messaging service SMS client Internet browser microblogging client and so forth. The messaging application is configured to provide messaging functionality. This functionality may include but is not limited to receiving and transmitting a message accessing message data accepting user input and presenting a user interface such as via the display or another output device coupled to the I O interface .

In some implementations the messaging application may comprise a mail user agent. The messaging application is configured to allow presentation of a plurality of message account indicators which designate messaging accounts configured to send messages. A messaging account determination module is configured to select one or more of these messaging accounts to send the message. The messaging account determination module may determine a confidence level associating the message with particular messaging accounts. The messaging account having the highest confidence level may be selected and used for transmission. The confidence level may be based at least in part on correspondence between the message and the messaging accounts. The messaging account determination module may be configured to use one or more machine learning techniques to modify over time the calculation of the confidence level selection of the messaging account or a combination thereof. The machine learning techniques may include but are not limited to neural networks associate rule learning genetic programming Bayesian networks reinforcement learning and so forth. This selection of the messaging account is discussed below in more detail with regard to and .

Once selected the messaging application may use the communication interface to transmit via the network one or more messages . . . M to one or more message servers . . . S . The network may comprise one or more private networks public networks such as the Internet or a combination of both configured to transfer data between two or more devices. The message may comprise an email SMS microblog entry text chat video chat audio chat and so forth.

The messaging servers may comprise individual servers groups of servers cloud resources providing messaging functionality or a combination thereof. The messaging servers are configured to receive and process the message transmitted from the messaging application of the user device . The processing may comprise storing forwarding to one or more other messaging servers executing a pre determined action providing the message to another user device in response to a query and so forth.

In some implementations the messaging account determination module may be executed in whole or in part or otherwise supported by one or more association servers . . . A accessible via the network . The association server may be configured to determine associations between messages and message accounts. Data may be exchanged between the messaging application such as on the user device between the message servers or both. For example the association server may be configured to receive aggregate message data about transfer of data between domains. This aggregate message data may be used to build associations such as that email between domain A.com and domain B.com have a high confidence level of being personal email. Information about associations such as this may then be provided to the messaging account determination module to be used at least in part for selection of the messaging account.

The user devices the association server or a combination thereof may be configured to maintain associational data such as an association graph between users domains messaging accounts and so forth. This associational data may be accessed by the user device the message server and so forth to determine a message account to be used for sending the message. These associations may be based on one or more factors and may be expressed as confidence levels weights probabilities and so forth. The message accounts may comprise email boxes associated with a particular email address text messaging accounts short messaging service SMS accounts and so forth.

In one implementation the association server may be configured to act as a proxy or portion of the messaging application . In such an implementation all message traffic to and from the messaging application a user associated therewith may be assessed to determine associations suitable for use by the messaging account determination module .

While various functions are described above with respect to particular devices it is understood that these functions may be distributed in many ways across the devices. In one implementation the messaging application and messaging account determination module functionality may be provided at least in part by the user device . In another implementation the user device may access the messaging application and the messaging account determination module executing on the message server or another server.

The memory may also include a data compilation module . The data compilation module is configured to process data associated with creation management receipt or transmission of messages . The data compilation module may be configured to acquire data from the messaging application from the message server the association server and so forth. For example the data compilation module may be configured to monitor user arrangement of messages into organization groupings such as file folders or categories. This information acquired by the data compilation module may then be used by the messaging account determination module to determine what messages are to be associated with particular message accounts. The data compilation module may be configured to acquire information which is user specific aggregated across a plurality of users U or a combination thereof. Information may be acquired through application programming interfaces logging proxy services and so forth.

In some implementations the data compilation module may acquire information from or about other applications. For example the data compilation module may be configured to interrogate the operating system to determine what applications have recently had user focus. This data may be used to provide additional information to associate messages with particular messaging accounts. Thus data that a dedicated business application for managing government bids was open contemporaneously as the email was sent may be used to associate the email with a work messaging account.

An association server interface module may also be present in the memory . The association server interface module is configured to exchange data with the association server . For example the association server interface module may send data summarizing associations made by the messaging account determination module to the association server . This information may be received by the association server and used to generate more detailed associative models either individual to the user or general for groups of users. Likewise the messaging account determination module of the user device may provide data to the association server and receive in return association data for use in selection of the messaging account. As mentioned above in some implementations the association server may provide at least part of the functionality of the messaging account determination module .

One or more message attributes may be stored in the datastore . The message attributes contain information about messages which have been sent received or both. The attributed may include source or destination message address date time sent location sent from content of the message and so forth. The messaging account determination module may use the message attributes to determine which messaging account to select. The message attributes are discussed below in more detail with regard to .

One or more message account parameters in the datastore comprise data about the message accounts. This data may include message address user specified categories message server connection information and so forth. The messaging account determination module may use the message account parameters to determine which messaging account to select. The message account parameters are discussed below in more detail with regard to .

Preferences may be stored in the datastore . These preferences may include user specified confidence level thresholds for automatic selection pre determined exceptions to automatic selection and so forth.

Correspondence data is information relating one or more message attributes to one or more message account parameters . The correspondence data may be maintained as lists databases graphs and so forth. The correspondence data may comprise various relationships such as weightings between the message attributes and the message account parameters . In some implementations the correspondence data may comprise a previously determined confidence level.

The datastore may maintain social network data which relates a particular user or group of users with one another. For example the social network data may indicate that Winston is acquainted with Frank who is in turn acquainted with Henry. This social network may be reflective of personal educational professional or other affiliations.

While the datastore is shown in the memory of the user device in some implementations at least a portion of the datastore or information therein may be stored on other devices. For example the social network data may be stored on a social network server.

Information about a sender in the case of a received message or a recipient in the case of a sent message may be stored and used by the messaging account determination module . This information may comprise a local part of an address such as the name of a particular user on the message server as well as a domain which is used to designate an organization group of one or more message servers . Associations using the domain may be relatively broad while those using the local part and the domain may be more specific. For example an email message sent to Hank A.com may be associated with a personal message account because messages to the A.com domain have a high probability of being associated with the personal message account. The local part may provide specificity which results in a different association. Continuing the example messages specifically addressed to Hank A.com may be associated with a work account due to a high probability that the particular account Hank A.com is associated with work related messages.

Header comprises header information associated with the message . This may include but is not limited to other addressees subject line date time created opened read or a combination thereof or other H . In some implementations additional data may be included in the header or presented separate from the header .

The other addressees provide information about other recipients who were included in distribution of the message . For example the other addressees may be entries into the to cc and bcc fields in an email. The other addressees may be used by the messaging account determination module to associate the message with a particular message account. For example where a majority of recipients in the cc field are in the same domain as the sender the message may be associated with the corresponding message account in the same domain .

The subject field of the message such as in an email may be used by the messaging account determination module to associate the message with a particular message account. For example where the subject contains the words Lease Proposal it may be more closely associated such as with a higher weight or probability with a message account used for work emails than with a message account used for personal emails. In another example the word party may be more closely associated with a message account for personal emails while the words golf equipment may be lightly associated with both work and personal accounts.

The date time at which the message is created opened read or a combination thereof may also be stored in the message attributes in the datastore . This information may be used as part of the association process of the messaging account determination module . For example messages created outside of working hours of 8 00 a.m. to 5 p.m. local time may be associated more closely with message accounts used for personal email.

The other H header data may also include a message identifier precedence trace information and so forth. For example the trace information in an email message sent using simple mail transfer protocol SMTP might be used to validate a sending server for a received message. Once validated that received message may be given greater weight by the messaging account determination module during association than a non validated message.

The message attributes may also include message content of the message . The messaging account determination module or another module may analyze the message content for keywords or phrases semantic content abbreviations and so forth. For example the message content comprising the words BBQ and ROFL may be considered more casual conversation and thus associated with message accounts used for personal messages. The message content may be stored or in some implementations a digest summary hash or a combination thereof may be generated.

Attachments to the message or information associated therewith may also store in the message attributes for analysis by the messaging account determination module . This information may include contents of the attachment or metadata about the attachment. For example where the attachment comprises a text file the text therein may be assessed by the messaging account determination module to determine an association of the message to one of the message accounts. In other implementations the messaging account determination module may use metadata of the attachment such as a file name file extension and so forth. For example messages with pictures attached may be more closely associated with a message account used for personal messages.

A location may comprise data about relative locations such as in the user s office in the break room or geographic locations such as latitude and longitude . The messaging account determination module may associate messages from a particular location such as the break room more closely with a personal message account compared to messages sent from an office.

Other message attributes may also be stored such as encryption status telephone number length of message whether the message was sent or received by the messaging application and so forth. For example the messaging account determination module may be configured to assign different levels association between messages which have been sent or received. Thus a message sent by the user may be assigned a high association while a message received is assigned a low association. One or more of these message attributes may be used by the messaging account determination module in conjunction with the message account parameters described below with regards to to select a message account for sending a message.

In some implementations the datastore may retain historical data about the message attributes for use by the messaging account determination module or other modules. For example the message attributes may contain data that messages to the message servers of E.gov domain are historically sent from a particular message account associated with C.gov domain. This data may be acquired by the data compilation module provided by the message server and so forth. The messaging account determination module may use this message history at least in part to determine an association between a message and a particular message account.

A username may be stored as well as a domain . The username may be used to designate a particular user in a message system while the domain designates an organizational group of one or more message servers . For example the username and domain combination of W D.gov indicates user W on the messaging system associated with the D.gov domain. In some implementations the domain may be omitted. For example where users are part of a unified administrative framework including but not limited to a chat session single service logon and so forth.

The message account may have a user specified category . This user specified category may be pre determined or arbitrary. A pre determined user specified category may comprise a listing of possible message account categories such as work personal home business and so forth from which the user may select and designate an account. For example a user Winston or a system administrator may designate Winston s account of W D.Gov as being a Work account. These categories may be used by the messaging account determination module .

An outbound server may be specified indicating the message server or group of message servers for transmitting and otherwise processing the message . An inbound server indicates the message server or group of message servers which messages are received from or otherwise accessed. In some implementations the outbound server and the inbound server may be provided by the same messaging server or group of messaging servers . Additionally the outbound server the inbound server or both may specify one or more protocols for operation. For example the outbound server information may include the address of the messaging server as well as a requirement to communicate with that outbound server using secure sockets layer SSL or transport layer security TLS encryption.

Encryption data in the message account parameters specifies presence of encryption encryption techniques protocols procedures bit strength and so forth as applied to the message content . For example the encryption data may specify that the message and any attachments are to be encrypted using the Advanced Encryption Standard AES with a 256 bit key. Details in the encryption data may be used by the messaging account determination module to associate the outbound message with a particular message account. For example encrypted email may highly correspond to messages sent by the D.gov domain.

Security configuration information such as whether the messaging application requires login prior to working with messages policies for scanning outbound attachments to redact metadata and so forth may also be stored and considered during selection of the message account. Other P message account parameters may also be stored and used by the messaging account determination module or other modules.

For the sake of illustration and not by way of limitation the following examples depict the messages as emails. It is understood that in other implementations other messaging such as SMS video chat and so forth may be used. In this diagram solid lines indicate a work affiliation a broken line indicates a personal affiliation and a broken line interspersed with dots indicates a home business affiliation. These designations of work personal and so forth are understood to be for convenience only and not by way of limitation. In this illustration the relative thickness of the line indicates a strength of association. For example thicker lines indicate a greater degree of association while thinner lines indicate a lesser degree. The associations may be unidirectional or multi directional relative to a particular message account. For example a message association may be strong from A.com to B.com but weak from B.com to A.com.

In this illustration four users named Winston Clement Frank and Henry are shown. Each of these users has one or more user devices which they each use to access their messaging accounts. Shown here are six domains each providing message accounts and services such as the message servers . The six domains depicted are A.com B.com C.gov D.gov E.gov and F.biz. Functionally these domains or their underlying message servers may exchange messages between one another. Thus A.com may send and receive messages to F.biz and so forth.

For this illustration assume Winston uses his user device such as a laptop to run the messaging application such as a mail client. Winston s messaging application is configured with two messaging accounts including a work account which is provided by the D.gov domain and a personal account provided by the A.com domain. Winston may thus send an email using his work or his personal account. As shown here Winston is thus affiliated with the A.com and the D.gov domains.

Clement has a single messaging account that of C D.gov which is designated as work. Frank has two messaging accounts FrankandEl B.com for personal matters and F C.gov for work. Frank is thus affiliated with the B.com and the C.gov domains. Finally Henry has three accounts H E.gov for work Hank A.com for personal use and StSt F.biz for a home business.

As illustrated here Winston has two emails to send both to Frank. A first email has been assessed by the messaging account determination module . Confidence levels have been assigned which describe correspondence between the message to be sent and the one or more message accounts. Confidence levels may be assessed in some implementations for each combination of message and message account. As shown here the email titled Lease Proposal shows a high confidence 95 that it is associated with the work account and a low confidence 3 that it is associated with the personal account.

In comparison a second email has been by the messaging account determination module . This email titled BBQ shows a high confidence 85 that it is associated with a personal messaging account and a lower confidence of 57 that this is associated with Winston s work messaging account W D.gov. 

When Winston is preparing his emails and to send the messaging application uses the messaging account determination module to select a message account to use in the transmission of the email. For example by looking at the destination domain C.gov in the email to be sent a correspondence between email message and the work message account of W D.gov may be determined and the work message account selected for sending the email. In contrast the A.com and the B.com may be determined to be strongly associated and that association may be such that the messaging account determination module may use the personal email account for messages to the B.com domain. Thus Winston s email to FrankandEl B.com may be sent via the message account for A.com.

The association server the messaging account determination module or a combination thereof may be configured to acquire information from a plurality of the users U the message servers S or a combination thereof to develop information about associations between the message servers S the users U or both. This information may be anonymized or aggregated to maintain confidentiality of user information. For example an analysis of message attributes of traffic between the message servers of domain A.com and B.com may indicate that traffic between these two is strongly associated with personal communications. As a result messages originating with or destined for these domains may exhibit a higher confidence level for message accounts designated for non business. Likewise traffic between the D.gov and C.gov domains is strongly associated with work communications. In contract traffic between the A.com domain and the D.gov domain is lightly associated with work communications.

For ease of illustration and not by way of limitation the illustration indicates relative strength or magnitude of associations between the two accounts of the user Winston and the other message accounts in this example. In some implementations associations may be maintained for a selected subset of message accounts. The following associations and the strength thereof may be determined based on activity between the users depicted or based at least in part upon the activity of other users.

Association between Winston s work account and Clements work account shows a medium association. For example this association may consider that Winston frequently uses the work account to send messages to Clement and also that Winston and Clement share a domain D.gov . In comparison association is a light association between Winston s work account and Henry s work account. Association indicates a strong association between the work message accounts of Winston and Frank. For example Winston and Frank may often correspond on work related matters. Association between Winston s work message account and Frank s personal message account is low. For example Winston may occasionally send emails from his work message account but intend for them to be read by Frank when at home. Association is another strong association between Winston s personal account and Frank s personal account. Association between Frank s work message account and Winston s personal message account is medium strength.

As this figure illustrates a variety of associations between messaging accounts may be maintained by the association server or by other devices described herein. These associations may be used to determine a confidence factor associated with a particular message should that message be sent by one of the messaging accounts.

As described above the messaging account determination module may use one or more of the message attributes to determine correspondence with a particular messaging account. For example the destination address subject formal formatting of the message content including signature attached file having an extension associated with a document and a location associated with work results in generation of a high confidence level with respect to this message being sent from the work account.

The user interface may configured such that the messaging account determination module selects the message account for transmission at the conclusion of a message such as indicated by the user initiating a control to send the email or may be updated during the user s interaction with the user interface . For example as the to address subject message attachments and other message attributes so forth are input the selected account may change based on this input. As a result during composition of the message the send using account value may change. This update may occur based on time data entry and so forth. For example the update may be configured to take place upon user entry of a space or return character on a keyboard.

In some implementations one or more interface attributes associated with the user interface may be configured to adjust at least partly in response to changes in selection of the messaging account. These interface attributes may include background color border color animations graphics font style and so forth. For example when an account designated as a personal account is selected a background of the user interface may be set to green. Likewise when the account designated as work is selected the background may be presented as red. In another implementation the style of the font used during message composition may change based at least in part upon the messaging account selected. The selection of the messaging account may be automatic or manual. For example the user may manually select or have provided as a default a work messaging account. At least partly in response to this selection the user interface may be configured to change interface attributes such as presenting a red border.

These changes in the interface attributes may be made during or as a result of entry of data into the user interface . In one implementation where the confidence criteria to select a send message account are unsatisfied below a threshold value or ambiguous a pre determined set of interface attributes may be used. For example a plain white background with a serif font may be used to provide visual feedback that no message account has been selected or that the selection is ambiguous. In some implementations these interface attributes may be used to affect formatting of the message as sent. For example an email sent using a particular messaging account may have a particular font size and style selected.

Message signatures may also be selected based at least in part on the send message account which has selected. For example the message shown here by Winston which has been determined to be sent using the WORK account may include an automatically inserted or appended signature Winston Spencer Prime Minister. 

Block receives a request to send a message . For example the user may select a control to send an email message. In another example the user may select a control to compose a message. As described above in some implementations the message may comprise an email.

Block determines a confidence level for the requested message as associated with one or more of a plurality of message accounts. This confidence level describes a correspondence between at least a portion of one or more message attributes and one or more message account parameters of the plurality of message accounts. This correspondence may be probabilistic heuristic pre defined and so forth based at least in part on the associations and data described above. For example data in the datastore such as the relationships between people as described in the social network data may be used to determine a confidence level associated with one or more of the plurality of message accounts.

As described above in some implementations the messaging account parameters may comprise data associated with an email service provider. In some implementations the determination of the confidence level may retrieved such as from the association server via the association server interface module .

Block determines when the confidence level satisfies one or more criteria such as meeting pre determined thresholds. The thresholds may be determined automatically or at least in part by manual input and may be absolute or a relative. In one example with an absolute threshold the user may specify that automatic selection for a particular messaging account such as a work message account must have a minimum of 90 confidence level in order to be selected.

In another implementation a relative threshold may be configured such that automatic selection calls for exceeding a confidence level of another account by a pre determined margin. For example selection of the work message account may call for a minimum of 75 confidence level and exceeding other confidence levels by 10 . Thus where the work message account shows a 95 confidence level with the message and the personal message account shows a 84 confidence level with the message the work message account would be selected as it exceeds the minimum threshold and the relative margin. It is appreciated that a variety of different confidence criteria may be established. For example the criteria may comprise confidence level associated with one message account meeting or exceeding by a factor of two other confidence levels. These confidence criteria may be automatically generated or manually input. For example the manual input may comprise the user specifying one or more confidence levels associated with selection of a particular messaging account.

When the confidence level criteria are satisfied the process proceeds to block . Block based at least in part on the determined confidence level selects one of the plurality of message accounts to send the message. This selection may be based on identifying the message account having the confidence level which satisfies the confidence criteria. For example with regards to email as described above the confidence level of 95 results in selection of the work messaging account using the D.gov domain messaging servers .

In some implementations a plurality of message accounts may be selected to send the message. For example different confidence levels may be determined based upon the relationship between message accounts of the sender and the recipient. Suppose Henry is sending messages with regards to his home business. A message sent via Henry s home business messaging account of StSt F.biz may be determined to have a lower confidence level than the same message sent via Henry s personal messaging account of Hank A.com. Stated another way the confidence level may consider the recipients perspective in the message transaction. In one implementation this may be derived from social network data . For example Winston and Henry may be designated as colleagues on a social network website. This combined with a common domain of A.com may result in a higher confidence level being assigned to use that messaging account.

Block sends the message using the selected message account. For example the messaging application may send the message via a network interface device of the communication interfaces .

Returning to block when the confidence criteria are not satisfied such as when the confidence levels are less than or equal to a pre determined threshold or outside of a pre determined margin the process may proceed to block . Block ranks at least a portion of the plurality of message accounts by confidence level. Block presents message account indicators designating at least a portion of the plurality of message accounts via a user interface. This presentation may be sorted by ranking such that message accounts with the greatest confidence levels appear first. For example in the case of the email the user may be presented in the user interface with a list showing the message account indicators PERSONAL and WORK in that order to correspond to the underlying message accounts which have 85 and 45 respective confidence levels determined for each with respect to the message .

Block receives a user selection of one of the plurality of message accounts to send the message and may proceed to to send the message using the selected account. Block may also provide this user selection information back to a machine learning module to further train the messaging account determination module as to what messaging account should have been selected.

Block accesses one or more message attributes associated with the message. This data may have been previously stored. For example the local part and the domain indicating the intended recipient may be accessed as well as the header data . In some implementations historical data may be accessed as well such as a previously received manual selection of a message account for a prior message.

Block accesses one or more message account parameters associated with at least a portion of the plurality of message accounts. This data may have been previously stored. For example the domain associated with the plurality of message accounts.

Block determines a correspondence between at least a portion of the one or more message attributes and the one or more message account parameters . Multiple correspondences between several message attributes and the message account parameters may occur sequentially contemporaneously or both. For example the domain of the recipient matches or is affiliated with the domain of one of the messaging accounts while the text in the subject is affiliated with another of the messaging accounts.

This correspondence may be determined using manual inputs historical data machine learning modules as so forth. For example upon initial use the messaging application may retrieve from the association server via the association server interface module a basic set of associations between message servers domains and so forth. This basic set may be determined using aggregated or anonymized data and may be generic across all users specific to users having a particular profile or demographic or customized based on a set of initially specific conditions such as a survey to the user . Over time as the user manually selects a particular messaging account sends and receives additional messages adds messaging accounts and so forth the messaging account determination module becomes customized to that user .

Block generates a confidence level value for one or more of the plurality of the message accounts based at least in part on the determined correspondence. In one implementation the confidence level may be based at least in part on a correspondence between one or more message attributes and one or more message account parameters . This confidence level may be generated at least in part by assigning different weights to different message attributes message account parameters or both. For example an association between domain names may be weighed more heavily and count more towards the confidence level than use of a formal salutation in the message content .

The operations and processes described and shown above may be carried out or performed in any suitable order as desired in various implementations. Additionally in certain implementations at least a portion of the operations may be carried out in parallel. Furthermore in certain implementations less than or more than the operations described may be performed.

Certain aspects of the disclosure are described above with reference to block and flow diagrams of systems methods apparatuses and or computer program products according to various implementations. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and the flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some implementations.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage media or memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable storage media produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example certain implementations may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions implemented therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain implementations could include while other implementations do not include certain features elements and or operations. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or operations are in any way required for one or more implementations or that one or more implementations necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or operations are included or are to be performed in any particular implementation.

Many modifications and other implementations of the disclosure set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific implementations disclosed and that modifications and other implementations are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

