---

title: Security data aggregation and business intelligence for web applications
abstract: Systems and methods may provide for detecting a browser request for web content. Additionally, interaction information associated with a plurality of sources may be determined in response to the browser request, and a risk profile may be generated based on the interaction. The risk profile may include at least a portion of the interaction information as well as recommended control actions to mitigate the identified risk. In one example, the risk profile is presented to a user associated with the browser request as well as to a security control module associated with the platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09213827&OS=09213827&RS=09213827
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09213827
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120927
---
Embodiments generally relate to web based security management. More particularly embodiments relate to the intelligent aggregation of platform device interaction information associated with web applications.

Emerging markup languages such as HTML5 Hypertext Markup Language 5 e.g. HTML5 Editor s Draft 8 May 2012 W3C LLVM e.g. LLVM 3.1 May 22 2012 llvm org and other runtime or just in time JIT environment languages may support more robust multimedia related web platform development. The use of these advanced languages by an application developer however may also expose end user platform components such as graphics processors memory sensors and so forth to web applications wherein the exposure of such components may lead to security concerns.

Turning now to a security module of a computing platform is shown in which a user may obtain web content e.g. web pages applications multimedia etc. via a browser . The platform may include for example a desktop computer workstation notebook computer smart tablet smart phone personal digital assistant PDA media player imaging device etc. or any combination thereof. In the illustrated example the browser includes a core and an HTML5 module e.g. web application compositor and or compiler wherein the security module may include a runtime context interface that is configured to monitor web application API application programming interface calls made during the retrieval and presentation of the web content to the user . Of particular note is that the web content may have access to a plurality of platform data sources by virtue of the web content being written in a just in time JIT and or runtime environment language such as HTML5 that exposes platform hardware. Moreover the web content may include malware and or other unauthorized web applications. As will be discussed in greater detail the contextual information obtained by the runtime context interface may facilitate a more effective analysis of the security risks that may be posed by the web content . The illustrated security module also includes a platform data aggregator configured to determine interaction information based on client device attributes e.g. hardware attributes operating system OS attributes software application attributes of the platform data sources wherein the interaction information may characterize interactions between the web content and the platform data sources .

More particularly the illustrated platform data aggregator includes a sensor interface that may obtain interaction information and or client device attributes from sensors such as Wi Fi sensors global positioning system GPS sensors cellular sensors near field communications NFC sensors audio sensors motion sensors and so forth. Thus for example if the web content accesses a GPS sensor among the platform data sources in order to determine the location of the platform the sensor interface may detect and document that interaction. The illustrated platform aggregator also includes a hardware HW security reference that may obtain interaction information and or client device attributes from other hardware such as memory input output IO components processors etc. of the platform data sources . For example the IO components may include file system components networking components graphics components and so forth wherein if the web content interacts with any of those IO components such interaction may also be detected and documented by the HW security reference . Additionally the platform data aggregator may include a user setting location that stores various user security settings.

The illustrated security module which may be implemented in an operating system OS and or browser independent client application plug in firmware etc. also includes a data aggregator that obtains interaction information e.g. off platform data from remote data sources such as peer to peer P2P applications social networks cloud services enterprise databases and so forth. For example the remote data sources may provide historical data as to the behavior of the web content on other similar platforms. Thus the interaction information obtained from the remote data sources may also provide insight as to the security ramifications of presenting the web content to the user on the platform.

The security module may also include a browser interface that is configured to detect one or more web requests for the web content and poll trigger a risk analyzer for a risk profile report about the user action that led to the web requests . More particularly the risk analyzer may use the interaction information obtained by the platform data aggregator the aggregator of off platform data and the runtime context interface to generate the risk profile . The risk profile may be presented to the user via a graphical user interface GUI and or sent to a security control module e.g. digital rights management DRM enterprise rights management ERM client intrusion detection system IDS anti virus solution etc. via a control interface wherein the security control module may be either on platform or off platform. More particularly the control interface may send the risk profile to the security control module in response to a control request from the security control module and or in response to a trigger condition e.g. a threshold being met associated with the risk profile . In one example the delivery of the risk profile to the user and or security control module may occur in parallel with the presentation of the web content depending upon user preferences.

Turning now to a method of managing web based security risks is shown. The method may be implemented as a set of logic instructions and or firmware stored in a machine or computer readable medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM flash memory etc. in configurable logic such as for example programmable logic arrays PLAs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs in fixed functionality logic hardware using circuit technology such as for example application specific integrated circuit ASIC complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS or transistor transistor logic TTL technology or any combination thereof. For example computer program code to carry out operations shown in the method may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. Moreover the method may be implemented as the security module using any of the aforementioned circuit technologies.

Illustrated processing block provides for detecting a browser request for web content wherein interaction information associated with a plurality of sources may be determined at block in response to the browser request. As already noted the plurality of sources may include for example platform sensors e.g. Wi Fi GPS cellular NFC audio motion platform memory platform IO components e.g. file system networking graphics platform processors platform runtime context interfaces platform user setting locations remote P2P applications remote social networks remote cloud services remote enterprise databases and so forth. Block may involve generating a risk profile based on the interaction information.

Turning now to one example of the risk profile is shown. In the illustrated example the request web content is identified as well as any interactions with platform components that may result from retrieval and or presentation of the requested web content. Of particular note is that certain web applications such as JavaScript JS applications may access sensitive user information by making function API calls e.g. OS native application etc. to various hardware components on the platform. The illustrated example detects and documents such calls and other interactions so that the user and or security control modules may be made aware of them. The risk profile may also include recommended actions not shown . For example if the information provided to the use indicates that certain web content has higher risk the GUI may enable the user to change browser security settings and or enforce tighter policies e.g. disallow JS from a particular web site apply privacy controls etc. . Thus the recommended actions may include multiple alternatives. Indeed the risk profile may also highlight any privacy concerns associated with accessing certain personal information stored on the platform.

The processor is shown including execution logic having a set of execution units through N. Some embodiments may include a number of execution units dedicated to specific functions or sets of functions. Other embodiments may include only one execution unit or one execution unit that can perform a particular function. The illustrated execution logic performs the operations specified by code instructions.

After completion of execution of the operations specified by the code instructions back end logic retires the instructions of the code . In one embodiment the processor allows out of order execution but requires in order retirement of instructions. Retirement logic may take a variety of forms as known to those of skill in the art e.g. re order buffers or the like . In this manner the processor core is transformed during execution of the code at least in terms of the output generated by the decoder the hardware registers and tables utilized by the register renaming logic and any registers not shown modified by the execution logic .

Although not illustrated in a processing element may include other elements on chip with the processor core . For example a processing element may include memory control logic along with the processor core . The processing element may include I O control logic and or may include I O control logic integrated with memory control logic. The processing element may also include one or more caches.

Referring now to shown is a block diagram of a system in accordance with an embodiment. Shown in is a multiprocessor system that includes a first processing element and a second processing element . While two processing elements and are shown it is to be understood that an embodiment of system may also include only one such processing element.

System is illustrated as a point to point interconnect system wherein the first processing element and second processing element are coupled via a point to point interconnect . It should be understood that any or all of the interconnects illustrated in may be implemented as a multi drop bus rather than point to point interconnect.

As shown in each of processing elements and may be multicore processors including first and second processor cores i.e. processor cores and and processor cores and . Such cores may be configured to execute instruction code in a manner similar to that discussed above in connection with .

Each processing element may include at least one shared cache . The shared cache may store data e.g. instructions that are utilized by one or more components of the processor such as the cores and respectively. For example the shared cache may locally cache data stored in a memory for faster access by components of the processor. In one or more embodiments the shared cache may include one or more mid level caches such as level 2 L2 level 3 L3 level 4 L4 or other levels of cache a last level cache LLC and or combinations thereof.

While shown with only two processing elements it is to be understood that the scope of the embodiments are not so limited. In other embodiments one or more additional processing elements may be present in a given processor. Alternatively one or more of processing elements may be an element other than a processor such as an accelerator or a field programmable gate array. For example additional processing element s may include additional processors s that are the same as a first processor additional processor s that are heterogeneous or asymmetric to processor a first processor accelerators such as e.g. graphics accelerators or digital signal processing DSP units field programmable gate arrays or any other processing element. There can be a variety of differences between the processing elements in terms of a spectrum of metrics of merit including architectural micro architectural thermal power consumption characteristics and the like. These differences may effectively manifest themselves as asymmetry and heterogeneity amongst the processing elements . For at least one embodiment the various processing elements may reside in the same die package.

First processing element may further include memory controller logic MC and point to point P P interfaces and . Similarly second processing element may include a MC and P P interfaces and . As shown in MC s and couple the processors to respective memories namely a memory and a memory which may be portions of main memory locally attached to the respective processors. While the MC logic and is illustrated as integrated into the processing elements for alternative embodiments the MC logic may be discrete logic outside the processing elements rather than integrated therein.

The first processing element and the second processing element may be coupled to an I O subsystem via P P interconnects and respectively. As shown in the I O subsystem includes P P interfaces and . Furthermore I O subsystem includes an interface to couple I O subsystem with a high performance graphics engine e.g. graphics component . In one embodiment bus may be used to couple graphics engine to I O subsystem . Alternately a point to point interconnect may couple these components.

In turn I O subsystem may be coupled to a first bus via an interface . In one embodiment the first bus may be a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus or a bus such as a PCI Express bus or another third generation I O interconnect bus although the scope of the embodiments are not so limited.

As shown in various I O devices may be coupled to the first bus along with a bus bridge which may couple the first bus to a second bus . In one embodiment the second bus may be a low pin count LPC bus. Various devices may be coupled to the second bus including for example a keyboard mouse network controllers communication device s e.g. networking components which may in turn be in communication with a computer network and a data storage unit e.g. file system component such as a disk drive or other mass storage device which may include code in one embodiment. In one example web content is received via the communication devices . The code may include instructions for performing embodiments of one or more of the methods described above. Thus the illustrated code may implement the security module and may be similar to the code already discussed. The data storage unit communication devices graphics engine etc. may therefore constitute IO components of the platform data sources already discussed. Further an audio I O may be coupled to second bus .

Note that other embodiments are contemplated. For example instead of the point to point architecture of a system may implement a multi drop bus or another such communication topology. Also the elements of may alternatively be partitioned using more or fewer integrated chips than shown in .

Examples may include a computing and or web based security platform having a plurality of hardware components. The plurality of hardware components may include one or more of a sensor a network interface a memory an IO component and a processor. The platform may also have a browser interface to detect a browser request for web content. Additionally the platform may have a security module to determine interaction information associated with the plurality of hardware components in response to the browser request and generate a risk profile based on the interaction information.

Additionally the security module of the platform may include a first data aggregator to obtain the interaction information from one or more of the sensor the memory the IO component the processor a runtime context interface and a user setting location.

Additionally the sensor of the platform may include one or more of a Wi Fi sensor a global positioning system GPS sensor a cellular sensor a near field communications NFC sensor an audio sensor and a motion sensor.

Moreover the IO component of the platform may include one or more of a file system component a networking component and a graphics component.

In addition the security module of the platform may include a second data aggregator to obtain the interaction information from one or more of a remote peer to peer P2P application a remote social network a remote cloud service and a remote enterprise database.

In addition the security module of any of the aforementioned platform examples may include a graphical user interface GUI to present the risk profile to a user wherein the risk profile is to include at least a portion of the interaction information and one or more recommended actions.

Moreover the platform may include a control interface to send the risk profile to a security control module in response to one or more of a control request from the security control module and a trigger condition associated with the risk profile.

Examples may also include a web based security apparatus having a browser interface to detect a browser request for web content. Additionally the apparatus may have a security module to determine interaction information associated with a plurality of sources in response to the browser request and generate a risk profile based on the interaction information.

Additionally the security module of the apparatus may include a first data aggregator to obtain the interaction information from one or more of a platform sensor a platform memory a platform input output IO component a platform processor a platform runtime context interface and a platform user setting location.

Additionally the first data aggregator of the apparatus may include a sensor interface to obtain the interaction information from one or more of a Wi Fi sensor a global positioning system GPS sensor a cellular sensor a near field communications NFC sensor an audio sensor and a motion sensor.

Moreover the first data aggregator of the apparatus may include an IO interface to obtain the interaction information from one or more of a file system component a networking component and a graphics component.

In addition the security module of the apparatus may include a second data aggregator to obtain the interaction information from one or more of a remote peer to peer P2P application a remote social network a remote cloud service and a remote enterprise database.

In addition the security module of any of the aforementioned apparatus examples may include a graphical user interface GUI to present the risk profile to a user wherein the risk profile is to include at least a portion of the interaction information and one or more recommended actions.

Moreover the apparatus may further include a control interface to send the risk profile to a security control module in response to a control request from the security control module.

Additionally the apparatus may further include a control interface to send the risk profile to a security control module in response to a trigger condition associated with the risk profile.

Examples may also include a method in which a browser request for web content is detected. The method may also provide for determining interaction information associated with a plurality of sources in response to the browse request and generating a risk profile based on the interaction information.

Additionally determining the interaction information may include obtaining the interaction information from one or more of a platform sensor a platform memory a platform input output IO component a platform processor a platform runtime context interface and a platform user setting location.

Additionally obtaining the interaction information from the platform sensor may include obtaining the interaction information from one or more of a Wi Fi sensor a global positioning system GPS sensor a cellular sensor a near field communications NFC sensor an audio sensor and a motion sensor.

Moreover obtaining the interaction information from the platform IO component may include obtaining the interaction information from one or more of a file system component a networking component and a graphics component.

In addition determining the interaction information may include obtaining the interaction information from one or more of a remote peer to peer P2P application a remote social network a remote cloud service and a remote enterprise database.

In addition any of the aforementioned method examples may further include presenting the risk profile to a user via a graphical user interface GUI wherein the risk profile includes at least a portion of the interaction information and one or more recommended actions.

Moreover the method may further include sending the risk profile to a security control module in response to one or more of a control request from the security control module and a trigger condition associated with the risk profile.

Examples may also include at least one computer readable storage medium having a set of instructions which if executed by a processor cause a computer to detect a browser request for web content. The instructions if executed may also cause a computer to determine interaction information associated with a plurality of sources in response to the browser request and generate a risk profile such as the risk profile based on the interaction information.

In addition the instructions when executed by a processor may cause a computer to perform any of the aforementioned method examples.

Examples may also include a web based security apparatus having means for performing any of the aforementioned method examples.

Technologies described herein may therefore include a method to manage web based security in which accesses and frequency of accesses to hardware and other device attributes by languages such as HTML5 WebGL Web Graphic Language offline caching and client code injection may be detected logged and reported to the end user as well as other security control mechanisms. Accordingly security business intelligence BI may be achieved at both the end user level as well as the enterprise level. Simply put a risk aware web experience may be provided to users by aggregating security data from different sources and displaying a corresponding risk profile to the user. Meanwhile the techniques may also function as an analyzed data source for other client security controls.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

One or more aspects of at least one embodiment may be implemented by representative instructions stored on a machine readable medium which represents various logic within the processor which when read by a machine causes the machine to fabricate logic to perform the techniques described herein. Such representations known as IP cores may be stored on a tangible machine readable medium and supplied to various customers or manufacturing facilities to load into the fabrication machines that actually make the logic or processor.

Embodiments are applicable for use with all types of semiconductor integrated circuit IC chips. Examples of these IC chips include but are not limited to processors controllers chipset components programmable logic arrays PLAs memory chips network chips and the like. In addition in some of the drawings signal conductor lines are represented with lines. Some may be different to indicate more constituent signal paths have a number label to indicate a number of constituent signal paths and or have arrows at one or more ends to indicate primary information flow direction. This however should not be construed in a limiting manner. Rather such added detail may be used in connection with one or more exemplary embodiments to facilitate easier understanding of a circuit. Any represented signal lines whether or not having additional information may actually comprise one or more signals that may travel in multiple directions and may be implemented with any suitable type of signal scheme e.g. digital or analog lines implemented with differential pairs optical fiber lines and or single ended lines.

Example sizes models values ranges may have been given although embodiments are not limited to the same. As manufacturing techniques e.g. photolithography mature over time it is expected that devices of smaller size may be manufactured. In addition well known power ground connections to IC chips and other components may or may not be shown within the figures for simplicity of illustration and discussion and so as not to obscure certain aspects of the embodiments. Further arrangements may be shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring embodiments and also in view of the fact that specifics with respect to implementation of such block diagram arrangements are highly dependent upon the platform within which the embodiment is to be implemented i.e. such specifics should be well within purview of one skilled in the art. Where specific details e.g. circuits are set forth in order to describe example embodiments it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments can be practiced without or with variation of these specific details. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine or tangible computer readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code and the like implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The term coupled may be used herein to refer to any type of relationship direct or indirect between the components in question and may apply to electrical mechanical fluid optical electromagnetic electromechanical or other connections. In addition the terms first second etc. may be used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while the embodiments have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the embodiments should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings specification and following claims.

