---

title: Method and apparatus for caching local mashup service parameters
abstract: An approach is provided for caching parameters of local mashup services. One or more devices and/or service providers determine one or more mashup services, one or more trigger conditions associated with the one or more mashup services, and/or one or more actions associated with the one or more mashup services. Further, the one or more devices cache the one or more mashup services, the one or more trigger conditions, and/or the one or more actions at one or more local caches. Furthermore, the one or more devices and/or service providers determine one or more results of one or more queries for the one or more mashup services, the one or more trigger conditions, and/or the one or more actions from the one or more local caches.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602623&OS=09602623&RS=09602623
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 09602623
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120911
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been development of services and applications whereby users and or devices may utilize component devices via other devices in close proximity to coordinate and perform various tasks. In one instance social devices may have social characteristics and when in close proximity they may communicate with each other for coordinating joint tasks for example entertainment e.g. talking phones singing phones etc. sharing content and the like. In another instance local service mashups may take locally potentially in multiple devices available services for example component services e.g. a monitors speakers microphones etc. available on other devices and present them as an aggregate service called an agent to a potential user. Typically formation of the agent is the responsibility of a server in cloud networking. However in many instance and geographical areas network services may not be readily available may introduce long delays and or may include certain fees. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges for enabling users and devices to store e.g. cache trigger conditions and required data for interoperability and utilization of local mashup services.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions associated with the one or more mashup services one or more actions associated with the one or more mashup services or a combination thereof. The method also comprises causing at least in part a caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof at one or more local caches. Further the method also comprises determining one or more results of one or more queries for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof from the one or more local caches.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions associated with the one or more mashup services one or more actions associated with the one or more mashup services or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof at one or more local caches. Further the apparatus is also caused to determine one or more results of one or more queries for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof from the one or more local caches.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions associated with the one or more mashup services one or more actions associated with the one or more mashup services or a combination thereof. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof at one or more local caches. Further the apparatus is also caused to determine one or more results of one or more queries for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof from the one or more local caches.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions associated with the one or more mashup services one or more actions associated with the one or more mashup services or a combination thereof. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof at one or more local caches. Further the apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more results of one or more queries for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof from the one or more local caches.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing a method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for caching parameters of local mashup services are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention. Mashup services may utilize a combination of applications components devices and or services that are available as individual elements for creating services and capabilities that were not necessarily available before the mashup service wherein a device and or a service provider may provide and orchestrate required actions for the mashup service.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to cache parameters for local mashup services. Generally a mashup service uses data or services from two or more sources e.g. component services to provide one or more new services. The component services may be web based services e.g. mapping services video audio streaming services encyclopedia service etc. or local services e.g. video screening on TV audio playing on speakers data storing on servers etc. where a combination of the component services can provide for more versatile services yielding a richer user experience.

In various embodiments various devices e.g. a mobile phone may include one or more local caches e.g. storage devices containing one or more trigger conditions which can initiate one or more locally coordinated actions e.g. availability of specific local services one or more coordinated action scripts e.g. local mashup agents device dialogue coordination etc. and data related to the coordinated actions e.g. communication exchanges between two devices . Further the one or more devices and or one or more service providers e.g. cloud based may run periodic local service discovery sessions. The trigger conditions may be one or more parameters associated with one or more devices users preferences profile parameters conditions status and the like wherein a device an application a software an algorithm and the like may utilize process in order to initiate one or more actions. The service discovery results may be correlated with the one or more trigger conditions and as applicable one or more appropriate locally coordinated actions may be executed substantially automatically by the one or more devices. In one embodiment a user of a device may initiate a search for one or more services e.g. component services available at one or more other local devices wherein the search and the component service coordination may be performed substantially locally via the one or more local caches of the one or more devices where at least one advantage may be that the service discovery trigger conditions negotiations and the coordination can be done with or without network e.g. cloud access.

In one embodiment the system may enable discovery of local component services in proximity to a device where the local component services may be registered at a server which may maintain the proximity information. Thus the proximity of the local components may be determined based on the proximity information. Otherwise a device may discover available local devices and component services via one or more available wired and or wireless connections i.e. cellular global positioning system GPS Bluetooth WiFi short range radio radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC etc. wherein each local component service may utilize one or more connectivity techniques and options. In one embodiment devices and component services without network connectivity e.g. Internet may utilize one or more network connections available via one or more other devices for example to access a mashup service available at a service provider e.g. cloud service .

In one embodiment the system may enable determining mashup services based on one or more combinations of one or more available local component services. By way of an example a mashup service may be selected from one or more available mashup services or it may be generated based on the available component services. The component services may be selected based on trigger conditions specifications proximity information connectivity information parameters etc. associated with the one or more local devices. Compatibility between the component services and the mashup service may be determined to provide a reliable mashup service and interfaces and software of each component service may be shared to create one common interface and software.

In one embodiment the system may enable the devices to generate one or more mashup agents for the mashup services. By way of an example the mashup agents can be generated to facilitate operation of the mashup service and control of the component services. Further the mashup agents may contain the common interface and software which may provide uniformity in operation of the mashup service and control of the component services. Furthermore the mashup agent may be in form of an application downloadable or installable onto client devices.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions associated with the one or more mashup services one or more actions associated with the one or more mashup services or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a device e.g. a mobile phone a tablet etc. may discover one or more other devices located in close proximity e.g. all are within a nearby space and examines local caches e.g. memory devices that may be available on the one or more devices for determining one or more trigger conditions one or more actions and or data associated with a mashup service which may be coordinated among the available devices. In one embodiment the one or more actions may be based on one or more parameters associated with a device a user a location a service provider and the like wherein the actions and or one or more triggers may be listed as one or more combinations of triggers. For example a first device may discover a plurality of other devices in close proximity which may be able to provide various component services e.g. audio video network connectivity etc. to other devices. In various embodiments the available devices may include various memory devices e.g. RFID tag cache etc. that may be accessible by other devices and or by one or more service providers wherein the memory devices may contain all or portions of information associated with a mashup service. In one embodiment one or more of the available devices may determine the mashup services and required information from one or more service providers.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof at one or more local caches. In various embodiments the one or more available devices share and or cache store the information associated with the one or more mashup services wherein a device may cache the information at its own cache device and or cause storing at one or more memory devices of the one or more other devices. For example a first device may determine all or portions of information for a mashup service cache the information in its own memory device and communicate with one or more other devices and or one or more cache devices on the one or more other devices for caching the information. In one embodiment the information associated with the one or more mashup services may be due to information from one device or one service provider and or may be aggregated from various devices and service providers.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more results of one or more queries for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof from the one or more local caches. In one embodiment one or more devices may query for one or more mashup services from the discovered one or more other devices e.g. in close proximity wherein information associated with the mashup services may be stored at local caches of any of the devices in close proximity. For example one or more devices may determine one or more trigger conditions for one or more actions for the one or more devices in close proximity wherein one or more devices may or may not participate in the one or more mashup services and or actions. In one instance a first device may determine one or more trigger conditions for one or more other devices in close proximity wherein the one or more other devices may perform one or more actions based on the one or more trigger conditions.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a discovery of one or more component services available to at least one device. In one embodiment a device may utilize one or more applications and sensors for detecting one or more devices having one or more component services available. For example a first device may utilize a close proximity scanning sensor e.g. Bluetooth RFID etc. and or a communication mechanism e.g. WLAN to detect presence of one or more other devices e.g. a monitor a TV loud speakers a tablet etc. that may be nearby. Further the one or more other devices may indicate e.g. via a communication link various information associated with each device for example device identification ID number device type component services e.g. audio video internet connection etc. available on each device device settings device resources etc.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a generation of the one or more queries based at least in part on the one or more component services. In various embodiments one or more devices may discover one or more component services available at one or more devices in close proximity and then inquire with the one or more devices and or with one or more service providers for one or more mashup services based on the available component services. For example a first device discovers several component services available at one or more nearby devices and inquires with the devices and or one or more service providers whether any mashup services are available based on the discovered component services. In various embodiments the one or more local caches are associated with the at least one device one or more other devices associated with the one or more component services or a combination thereof. For example each device within a group devices in close proximity include one or more cache devices e.g. storage devices wherein one or more information items about the device a component service and or information associated with one or more mashup services may be stored thereon.

In various embodiments the discovery the determining of the one or more results or a combination thereof are performed using local connectivity among the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof. For example one or more devices may utilize one or more wired and or wireless connectivity communication methods i.e. Bluetooth RFID NFC etc. to connect with one or more other nearby devices to accomplish one or more tasks. In one embodiment two or more devices may establish a common connection among the two or more devices and then one of the two or more devices establishes another connection with one or more other devices whereby there the number of connections may be more than or less than the number of devices within a group space.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a distribution of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof among the one or more local caches based at least in part on capability information resource availability information or a combination thereof associated with the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the one or more nearby devices and or one or more service providers may distribute the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof among the one or more local caches based on capabilities of each device. For example one device may be capable of receiving and storing the information at its own cache device. In another example a device may receive and share the information with other devices. In one instance a device may cause storing of the information at a storage device of another device for example a first device may cause storing of the information at an RFID tag on another device where the other device may or may not have the capability for receiving and or storing the information.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more agent interfaces for the one or more mashup services from the at least one local cache. In one embodiment one or more devices may generate one or more mashup agents for the mashup services. For example the mashup agents may be generated to facilitate operation of the mashup service and control of the component services at the one or more devices. Further the mashup agents may contain a common interface and software which may provide uniformity in operation of the mashup service and control of the component services. Furthermore the mashup agent may be in form of an application downloadable or installable onto client devices.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part an initiation of a the one or more mashup services b an evaluation of the one or more trigger conditions c the one or more actions or d a combination thereof via the one or more agent interfaces. In various embodiments one or more devices and or one or more service providers may initiate one or more mashup services via the one or more agent interfaces. For example a first device may receive and utilize a mashup agent to initiate one or more mashup services available via one or more devices. In one embodiment the one or more devices may utilize a mashup agent to evaluate one or more trigger conditions available at the one or more devices e.g. in cache and or from one or more service providers. For example a trigger condition may depend on various parameters of a device available component services user preferences location information and the like. In one embodiment one or more devices may initiate one or more actions associated with available mashup services via the one or more agents. For example a device and or a user may select from one or more mashup services available via the mashup agent and initiate one or more actions for utilization of the one or more mashup services.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a coordination of the one or more mashup services among the one or more component services the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof via the one or more agent interfaces. In various embodiments one or more devices one or more service providers and or one or more user may utilize the one or more agent interfaces to initiate and coordinate the one or more mashup services. For example a first device may utilize an agent interface to substantially automatically coordinate one or more mashup services available via one or more devices. In one embodiment a user may utilize an agent interface to initiate and coordinate one or more mashup services available at one or more devices.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a generation of one or more updated queries based at least in part on one or more updates to the one or more component services. In various embodiments a device a user and or a service provider may monitor and or determine any updates to the available component services and or devices wherein one or more updated queries may be generated if there are any updates to the availability of the component services and or devices. For example one or more new devices and or component services may become available e.g. come within close proximity in addition to the available current component services and or devices. In one example one or more current devices and or component services may become unavailable e.g. move away drop out disconnect etc. from a current list of available component services and or devices. In various embodiments discovery of the one or more component services and or the devices is performed periodically according to a schedule e.g. on a device per a service provider on demand e.g. by a user by a service provider by an application etc. or a combination thereof to determine the one or more updates.

In one embodiment the system determines historical use information for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof. In various embodiments one or more devices and or one or more service providers may determine historical use information of one or more devices and or one or more users associated with one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions and or one or more actions. For example historical use information may include information on various mashup services utilized by a device and or by a user i.e. utilizing audio and video component services whenever possible. Further the historical information may indicate various trigger conditions that may be associated with a device with a user with a location with various available component services with device resource status e.g. battery power network connectivity etc. and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a caching of the historical use information at the one or more local caches wherein the caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof is based at least in part on the historical use information. In various embodiments one or more applications one or more users and or one or more service providers may cause caching e.g. storing of the historical information at a cache device e.g. storage device associated with a device. For example the historical information may include information on a mashup service last used trigger conditions that cause the mashup service types of component services utilized and or available for the mashup service location information time date and the like.

As discussed above the system may provide various benefits and advantages to the users utilizing the methods of the system . For example the system at least provides an efficient mechanism for caching storing information locally at a device which may be utilized to coordinate and initiate one or more mashup services by a device a user and or a service provider wherein the mashup services may include various component services on various nearby devices. Further the system provides easy but yet efficient methods for the devices to access information from local cache devices associated with one or more devices for coordinating one or more mashup services with or without access to a service provider e.g. cloud service .

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including social networking web browser media application user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with other UEs one or more devices also collectively referred to as devices including one or more component services and storage devices one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more mashup service platforms one or more GPS satellites and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include cache memory devices also collectively referred to as cache for storing information associated with the UEs mashup services service providers component services and the like. In addition the UEs can execute one or more applications which may be a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system .

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service provider information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the mashup service platform may include and or have access to one or more database also collectively referred to as database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. mashup service platform information other service providers information and the like. The mashup service platform may include one or more servers which process data and communicate with other components of the system to provide mashup services. In one embodiment the mashup service platform may include a proximity server which can determine proximity information between the UEs the devices and or other devices capable of providing one or more component services. The proximity information may be registered with the proximity server or discovered through local wireless connections e.g. WiFi Bluetooth short range radio etc. The registration may include storing at a server registration and or proximity information connectivity information specifications parameters etc. for utilizing the component services in one or more mashup services. Further the registration information may be used for searching the mashup services.

In one embodiment the mashup service platform may also include a mashup service server which may determine one or more mashup services and or generate one or more mashup agents for the mashup services. For example when a UE requests a search for a mashup service the mashup service server may reply with a mashup agent if one or more mashup services are available to the UE . In one embodiment a mashup agent may include software logic for combining one or more available component services into a mashup service a common user interface for the mashup service and information on how to use the one or more available component services. A mashup agent may be a web application installed in various servers in the system or a mobile application in the UEs .

In certain embodiments the mashup service platform may be implemented as a collection of one or more hardware software algorithms firmware or combinations thereof wherein all or portions of it may be integrated for use with the service providers and or at with the UEs . In various embodiments the mashup service platform can be maintained on a network server while operating in connection with the service providers and or the UEs as an extensible feature a web service an applet a script an object oriented application or the like for providing mashup services to one or more components of the system . to enable searching for and or processing of the social networking information. Further the mashup service platform and or the service providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users UEs and devices may be shared accessed and or processed.

By way of example the UEs the devices the service providers and the mashup service platform may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs the devices and the mashup service platform may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

In one embodiment the component module may enable registration of component services available at the UEs and or at devices . The registration may involve storing in a server registration information including proximity information connectivity information specifications parameters etc. for using the component services. The component module may also determine the one or more available component services in the proximity based on the proximity information.

In one embodiment the mashup module may determine the mashup services based on a combination of available component services. In determining the mashup services the mashup module may determine the specifications for the mashup service and whether the component services satisfy the specifications. The mashup module may also generate one or more mashup agents for interfacing with the mashup service and the component services. In generating a mashup agent the mashup module may also determine software e.g. logics interfaces layers programs etc. to be included in the mashup agent.

In one embodiment the mashup module may send a mashup agent to the UE and or to a device upon a request to download or install the mashup agent. The agent module may maintain the mashup agents in various servers as well as allowing access to them. The mashup agents may be updated or modified upon any changes to the component services.

In one embodiment the notification module may present notifications that the mashup service is available based on availability of the component services to the UEs and or the devices . The notifications may include push or pop up notifications sound or vibration notification etc.

In one embodiment the communication module may enable connections and data transmissions between the mashup service platform the UEs the devices and or the service providers via the communication network .

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform determines one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions associated with the one or more mashup services one or more actions associated with the one or more mashup services or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a device e.g. a mobile phone a tablet etc. may discover one or more other devices located in close proximity e.g. all are within a nearby space and examines local caches e.g. memory devices that may be available on the one or more devices for determining one or more trigger conditions one or more actions and or data associated with a mashup service which may be coordinated among the available devices. In one embodiment the one or more actions may be based on one or more parameters associated with a device a user a location a service provider and the like wherein the actions and or one or more triggers may be listed as one or more combinations of triggers. For example a first device may discover a plurality of other devices in close proximity which may be able to provide various component services e.g. audio video network connectivity etc. to other devices. In various embodiments the available devices may include various memory devices e.g. RFID tag cache etc. that may be accessible by other devices and or by one or more service providers wherein the memory devices may contain all or portions of information associated with a mashup service. In one embodiment one or more of the available devices may determine the mashup services and required information from one or more service providers.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part a caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof at one or more local caches. In various embodiments the one or more available devices share and or cache store the information associated with the one or more mashup services wherein a device may cache the information at its own cache device and or cause storing at one or more memory devices of the one or more other devices. For example a first device may determine all or portions of information for a mashup service cache the information in its own memory device and communicate with one or more other devices and or one or more cache devices on the one or more other devices for caching the information. In one embodiment the information associated with the one or more mashup services may be due to information from one device or one service provider and or may be aggregated from various devices and service providers.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform determines one or more results of one or more queries for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof from the one or more local caches. In one embodiment one or more devices may query for one or more mashup services from the discovered one or more other devices e.g. in close proximity wherein information associated with the mashup services may be stored at local caches of any of the devices in close proximity. For example one or more devices may determine one or more trigger conditions for one or more actions for the one or more devices in close proximity wherein one or more devices may or may not participate in the one or more mashup services and or actions. In one instance a first device may determine one or more trigger conditions for one or more other devices in close proximity wherein the one or more other devices may perform one or more actions based on the one or more trigger conditions.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part a discovery of one or more component services available to at least one device. In one embodiment a device may utilize one or more applications and sensors for detecting one or more devices having one or more component services available. For example a first device may utilize a close proximity scanning sensor e.g. Bluetooth RFID etc. and or a communication mechanism e.g. WLAN to detect presence of one or more other devices e.g. a monitor a TV loud speakers a tablet etc. that may be nearby. Further the one or more other devices may indicate e.g. via a communication link various information associated with each device for example device identification ID number device type component services e.g. audio video internet connection etc. available on each device device settings device resources etc.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part a generation of the one or more queries based at least in part on the one or more component services. In various embodiments one or more devices may discover one or more component services available at one or more devices in close proximity and then inquire with the one or more devices and or with one or more service providers for one or more mashup services based on the available component services. For example a first device discovers several component services available at one or more nearby devices and inquires with the devices and or one or more service providers whether any mashup services are available based on the discovered component services. In various embodiments the one or more local caches are associated with the at least one device one or more other devices associated with the one or more component services or a combination thereof. For example each device within a group devices in close proximity include one or more cache devices e.g. storage devices wherein one or more information items about the device a component service and or information associated with one or more mashup services may be stored thereon. In various embodiments the discovery the determining of the one or more results or a combination thereof are performed using local connectivity among the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof. For example one or more devices may utilize one or more wired and or wireless connectivity communication methods i.e. Bluetooth RFID NFC etc. to connect with one or more other nearby devices to accomplish one or more tasks. In one embodiment two or more devices may establish a common connection among the two or more devices and then one of the two or more devices establishes another connection with one or more other devices whereby there the number of connections may be more than or less than the number of devices within a group space.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part a distribution of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof among the one or more local caches based at least in part on capability information resource availability information or a combination thereof associated with the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof. In various embodiments the one or more nearby devices and or one or more service providers may distribute the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof among the one or more local caches based on capabilities of each device. For example one device may be capable of receiving and storing the information at its own cache device. In another example a device may receive and share the information with other devices. In one instance a device may cause storing of the information at a storage device of another device for example a first device may cause storing of the information at an RFID tag on another device where the other device may or may not have the capability for receiving and or storing the information.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform determines one or more agent interfaces for the one or more mashup services from the at least one local cache. In one embodiment one or more devices may generate one or more mashup agents for the mashup services. For example the mashup agents may be generated to facilitate operation of the mashup service and control of the component services at the one or more devices. Further the mashup agents may contain a common interface and software which may provide uniformity in operation of the mashup service and control of the component services. Furthermore the mashup agent may be in form of an application downloadable or installable onto client devices.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part an initiation of a the one or more mashup services b an evaluation of the one or more trigger conditions c the one or more actions or d a combination thereof via the one or more agent interfaces. In various embodiments one or more devices and or one or more service providers may initiate one or more mashup services via the one or more agent interfaces. For example a first device may receive and utilize a mashup agent to initiate one or more mashup services available via one or more devices. In one embodiment the one or more devices may utilize a mashup agent to evaluate one or more trigger conditions available at the one or more devices e.g. in cache and or from one or more service providers. For example a trigger condition may depend on various parameters of a device available component services user preferences location information and the like. In one embodiment one or more devices may initiate one or more actions associated with available mashup services via the one or more agents. For example a device and or a user may select from one or more mashup services available via the mashup agent and initiate one or more actions for utilization of the one or more mashup services.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part a coordination of the one or more mashup services among the one or more component services the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof via the one or more agent interfaces. In various embodiments one or more devices one or more service providers and or one or more user may utilize the one or more agent interfaces to initiate and coordinate the one or more mashup services. For example a first device may utilize an agent interface to substantially automatically coordinate one or more mashup services available via one or more devices. In one embodiment a user may utilize an agent interface to initiate and coordinate one or more mashup services available at one or more devices.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part a generation of one or more updated queries based at least in part on one or more updates to the one or more component services. In various embodiments a device a user and or a service provider may monitor and or determine any updates to the available component services and or devices wherein one or more updated queries may be generated if there are any updates to the availability of the component services and or devices. For example one or more new devices and or component services may become available e.g. come within close proximity in addition to the available current component services and or devices. In one example one or more current devices and or component services may become unavailable e.g. move away drop out disconnect etc. from a current list of available component services and or devices. In various embodiments discovery of the one or more component services and or the devices is performed periodically according to a schedule e.g. on a device per a service provider on demand e.g. by a user by a service provider by an application etc. or a combination thereof to determine the one or more updates.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform determines historical use information for the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof. In various embodiments one or more devices and or one or more service providers may determine historical use information of one or more devices and or one or more users associated with one or more mashup services one or more trigger conditions and or one or more actions. For example historical use information may include information on various mashup services utilized by a device and or by a user i.e. utilizing audio and video component services whenever possible. Further the historical information may indicate various trigger conditions that may be associated with a device with a user with a location with various available component services with device resource status e.g. battery power network connectivity etc. and the like.

In step the UE and or the mashup service platform causes at least in part a caching of the historical use information at the one or more local caches wherein the caching of the one or more mashup services the one or more trigger conditions the one or more actions or a combination thereof is based at least in part on the historical use information. In various embodiments one or more applications one or more users and or one or more service providers may cause caching e.g. storing of the historical information at a cache device e.g. storage device associated with a device. For example the historical information may include information on a mashup service last used trigger conditions that cause the mashup service types of component services utilized and or available for the mashup service location information time date and the like.

In in one embodiment the initialization and discovery steps are similar to those of in except that the UE status at indicates a different state wherein the UE is playing audio e.g. ID BBCCDDEEFF Features Phone Service Status Playing audio . Further the monitor provides a different set of triggers at for example ordered Audio Audio Video Video where the trigger priorities are organized differently i.e. Audio is listed as a first trigger in the list. Furthermore the UE triggers to audio and causes establishing of connection to the speakers for streaming and or downloading audio content for audio reproduction at the speakers. Moreover here it is noted that the monitor may coordinate the discovery the trigger options a mashup agent and other mashup service parameters for facilitating the mashup service however the monitor a is not part of the interactions in providing the final mashup service e.g. playing audio via the speakers . 

In in one embodiment the initialization and discovery steps are similar to those of in except that the UE at provides to the monitor information on selected trigger e.g. playing audio via the speakers such that the monitor may collect information on combinations of component services device status mode and available services for updating the trigger priority lists other related mashup service information and generating new and various combined triggers.

As shown in the initial page may display an option to search mashup services and another option to search component services . A user s selection of the option to search mashup services may lead to mashup service search page . The mashup service search page may include a mashup service search bar and a list of mashup service entries . The mashup service search bar may allow users to input keywords to search the mashup services. The mashup service entry may include description of the mashup service and a button . The button may either starts the mashup service or installs a mashup service application in case the mashup service is not installed.

As shown in a user selection of another option to search component services may lead to component service search page . The component service search page may include a component service search bar and a list of component service entry . The component service search bar may allow users to input keywords to search the component services. The mashup service entry may include description of the component service and a button . The button may either launches detailed information about the component service or a control panel for the component service.

The processes described herein for caching parameters of local mashup services may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to caching parameters of local mashup services. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for caching parameters of local mashup services. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for caching parameters of local mashup services is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for caching parameters of local mashup services.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to cache parameters of local mashup services. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of caching parameters of local mashup services. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission through the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal for caching parameters of local mashup services. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

