---

title: Storage black box
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to a system, method, or computer program product for providing a storage allocation to a virtual machine in response to a service request including receiving a service request including a virtual machine and storage parameters and running a policy engine to determine appropriate storage allocation to achieve storage parameters received from the requester, which may include applying a set of policy-based rules to the received storage parameters to determine one or more appropriate logical components of storage to map, to determine one or more array ports to enable, and to determine one or more network ports to enable in order to establish one or more communication channels between the operating system of the virtual machine and the provisioned component space. Component space is provisioned and a communication channel is established between the operating system to the component space based on the policy engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930668&OS=08930668&RS=08930668
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08930668
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121115
---
Traditional information technology infrastructures for entities usually require several operating environments vendor resource deployment authentication repositories and mechanisms and several application servers working together in order to operate a large entity s information technology.

Furthermore installing and or implementing core functions such as new software or hardware within an entity s information technology infrastructure requires several time consuming steps. For example ordering and installing a new physical server and or associate work station requires a logical process to load the necessary operating systems secure the server install applications ensure licensing from proper vendors and the like. In some cases this process can take several weeks or months for the server s to become operational and business ready for the entity.

Furthermore the new physical server and or associate work station may have hardware or software features that provide functionality to the physical server and or associate work station that are not being utilized. For example the associate work station may have a large amount of memory that the associate may have requested but may not be utilized. Thus the entity may be paying for information technology infrastructure that is not being utilized to its fullest capacity.

Therefore a need exists for a logical management system of information technologies within an entity that drastically limits the time required for core functions to be completed and intelligently monitors the core functions once implemented.

The following presents a simplified summary of all embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of all embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatus e.g. a system computer program product and or other devices and methods for providing an information technology build service for building a platform in response to a service request.

According to some embodiments of the invention a system has a memory device with computer readable program code stored thereon a communication device and a processing device operatively coupled to the memory device and the communication device. The processing device is configured to execute the computer readable program code to receive a service request for a platform build from a requester the platform build comprising a virtual machine receive a plurality of storage parameters from the requester run a policy engine to determine appropriate storage allocation to achieve storage parameters received from the requester and provision component space and establishing a communication channel from an operating system of the virtual machine to the provisioned component space.

In some embodiments the processing device is further configured to execute the computer readable program code to present a single storage space to the operating system of the virtual machine for usage. In some embodiments running the policy engine comprises applying a set of policy based rules to the received storage parameters to determine one or more appropriate logical components of storage to map to determine one or more array ports to enable and to determine one or more network ports to enable in order to establish one or more communication channels between the operating system of the virtual machine and the provisioned component space.

In some embodiments running the policy engine comprises applying a set of policy based rules comprising a risk tolerance determination whereby a risk tolerance associated with the service request is determined based on one of a table of predetermined risk tolerances associated with one or more storage parameters or one or more virtual machine parameters or based on an analysis of the importance of the virtual machine to which the storage is allocated or the importance of the intended function of the storage to be allocated to the virtual machine.

In some embodiments the processing device is further configured to execute the computer readable program code to communicate with one or more vendor application programming interfaces to interface with a plurality of vendor storage components according to a preprogrammed set of configuration standards associated with a vendor and the vendor storage components. In some embodiments the processing device is further configured to execute the computer readable program code to run a web services client for providing an application programming interface for receiving service requests and storage parameters from requesters. In some embodiments the processing device is further configured to execute the computer readable program code to provide a product catalog for presenting a list of available storage solutions to a potential requester regularly monitor functionality of communication across one or more communication channels established by the system between an operating system and storage components to check for errors and in response to a request present a report comprising information related to the functionality of the communication channels.

According to embodiments of the invention a computer program product provides a storage allocation to a virtual machine in response to a service request. The computer program product has at least one non transitory computer readable medium having computer readable program code portions embodied therein. The computer readable program code portions include an executable portion configured for receiving a service request for a platform build from a requester the platform build comprising a virtual machine an executable portion configured for receiving a plurality of storage parameters from the requester an executable portion configured for running a policy engine to determine appropriate storage allocation to achieve storage parameters received from the requester and an executable portion configured for provisioning component space and establishing a communication channel from an operating system of the virtual machine to the provisioned component space.

In some embodiments the computer readable program code portions include an executable portion configured for presenting a single storage space to the operating system of the virtual machine for usage. In some embodiments running the policy engine comprises applying a set of policy based rules to the received storage parameters to determine one or more appropriate logical components of storage to map to determine one or more array ports to enable and to determine one or more network ports to enable in order to establish one or more communication channels between the operating system of the virtual machine and the provisioned component space.

In some embodiments running the policy engine comprises applying a set of policy based rules comprising a risk tolerance determination whereby a risk tolerance associated with the service request is determined based on one of a table of predetermined risk tolerances associated with one or more storage parameters or one or more virtual machine parameters or based on an analysis of the importance of the virtual machine to which the storage is allocated or the importance of the intended function of the storage to be allocated to the virtual machine.

In some embodiments the computer readable program code portions include an executable portion configured for communicating with one or more vendor application programming interfaces to interface with a plurality of vendor storage components according to a preprogrammed set of configuration standards associated with a vendor and the vendor storage components. In some embodiments the computer readable program code portions include an executable portion configured for running a web services client for providing an application programming interface for receiving service requests and storage parameters from requesters. In some embodiments the computer readable program code portions include an executable portion configured for providing a product catalog for presenting a list of available storage solutions to a potential requester regularly monitoring functionality of communication across one or more communication channels established by the system between an operating system and storage components to check for errors and in response to a request presenting a report comprising information related to the functionality of the communication channels.

According to embodiments of the invention a computer implemented method provides a storage allocation to a virtual machine in response to a service request. The method is embodied in at least one non transitory computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein. The computer readable program code is to cause a computer processor to receive a service request for a platform build from a requester the platform build comprising a virtual machine receive a plurality of storage parameters from the requester run a policy engine to determine appropriate storage allocation to achieve storage parameters received from the requester and provision component space and establishing a communication channel from an operating system of the virtual machine to the provisioned component space.

In some embodiments the computer readable program code is further to cause a computer processor to present a single storage space to the operating system of the virtual machine for usage. In some embodiments running the policy engine comprises applying a set of policy based rules to the received storage parameters to determine one or more appropriate logical components of storage to map to determine one or more array ports to enable and to determine one or more network ports to enable in order to establish one or more communication channels between the operating system of the virtual machine and the provisioned component space.

In some embodiments running the policy engine comprises applying a set of policy based rules comprising a risk tolerance determination whereby a risk tolerance associated with the service request is determined based on one of a table of predetermined risk tolerances associated with one or more storage parameters or one or more virtual machine parameters or based on an analysis of the importance of the virtual machine to which the storage is allocated or the importance of the intended function of the storage to be allocated to the virtual machine.

In some embodiments the computer readable program code is further to cause a computer processor to communicate with one or more vendor application programming interfaces to interface with a plurality of vendor storage components according to a preprogrammed set of configuration standards associated with a vendor and the vendor storage components. In some embodiments the computer readable program code is further to cause a computer processor to run a web services client for providing an application programming interface for receiving service requests and storage parameters from requesters. In some embodiments the computer readable program code is further to cause a computer processor to provide a product catalog for presenting a list of available storage solutions to a potential requester regularly monitor functionality of communication across one or more communication channels established by the system between an operating system and storage components to check for errors and in response to a request present a report comprising information related to the functionality of the communication channels.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Furthermore when it is said herein that something is based on something else it may be based on one or more other things as well. In other words unless expressly indicated otherwise as used herein based on means based at least in part on or based at least partially on. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term information technology data as used herein includes any data that may be needed for an entity to provide information technology infrastructure. For example this data may include software hardware memory storage programs operating systems programming notes instructions output resulting from the use of any software program including word processing documents spreadsheets database files charts graphs and outlines electronic mail or e mail personal digital assistant PDA messages instant messenger messages source code of all types programming languages linkers and compilers peripheral drives PDF files PRF files batch files ASCII files crosswalks code keys pull down tables logs file layouts and any and all miscellaneous files or file fragments deleted file or file fragment. Information technology data may also include any and all items stored on computer memory or memories hard disks floppy disks zip drives CD ROM discs Bernoulli Boxes and their equivalents magnetic tapes of all types and kinds microfiche punched cards punched tape computer chips including but not limited to EPROM PROM ROM and RAM of any kind on or in any other vehicle for digital data storage or transmittal files folder tabs or containers and labels appended to or associated with any physical storage device associated with each original and each copy. In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term information technology infrastructure as used herein refers to the totality of interconnecting hardware and software that supports the flow and processing of information. Information technology infrastructures include all information technology data physical components and the like that make up the computing internet communications networking transmission media etc. of an entity.

Furthermore embodiments of the present invention use the term user. A user may be an individual financial institution corporation or other entity that may require electronic data software and or hardware though an information technology infrastructure. Embodiments of the present invention also use the term vendor to describe a company business individual or other entity that provides systems software hardware and other technology required for operation of an entity.

Although some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving a financial institution other embodiments of the invention may involve other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with the financial institution to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution. Still in other embodiments of the invention the financial institution described herein may be replaced with other types of entities that have an information technology infrastructure.

According to embodiments of the invention an end to end modular information technology system ETE system provides responses to requests for service. A user or entity may submit a request for a build of a platform of one or more functional information technology IT servers. The request for the build may involve a unique configuration for the platform. A platform refers to a set of one or more servers to be built being built or previously built to a specific configuration. The platform for a requested build may be chosen from a collection of predefined common configurations or may be customized by the requester. The platform for a build may also be chosen from a collection of predefined templates and customizable features may then be added as desired. Some components of the platform may include the number of virtual central processing units CPUs the amount of memory and the amount of storage to be included in one or more of the IT servers. The ETE system in order to determine and configure the proper amount of storage for the platform for example calls the storage black box system SBB which accepts detailed input from the requester and or the ETE system in order to configure the necessary number of unique storage components and their respective parameters. Once the requester has specified the parameters of the needed platform the ETE system builds one or more useable servers as requested. The ETE system is discussed in concurrently filed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 678 415 entitled End to End Modular Information Technology System which is assigned to the assignee of this application.

The one or more servers of the platform may be virtual or physical servers. A virtual or logical server may be built using a hypervisor that functions similarly to an operating system and allows multiple servers to run on one machine as though they were each individually running on a unique physical machine. In this scenario the end user cannot tell whether the server s being used are virtual or physical. In applications requiring less processing power or memory such virtual servers may be stacked on one physical box or in a situation where high performance is needed a very large very high performance physical machine may be built to the specifications of the requester. In this regard the ETE system is considered to include a modular process for building servers. Among other benefits the ETE system in conjunction with the Orchestration Management Database the Host Naming Application Programming Interface the Storage Black Box and the Capacity Reclamation and Resource Adjustment Systems provides streamlined building of servers based on a configuration associated with a particular requested platform. For example in various instances the time from build request to completed build may be approximately 30 minutes to three hours whereas the process prior to implementation of the ETE system and its tools may take 60 to 90 hours to complete.

Referring now to an ETE system which may be operating using cloud computing is illustrated by way of a compute hosting program environment abstraction . The abstraction has three layers including an automation intelligence workload manager a resource manager and a physical infrastructure . The workload manager is configured to balance the workload of the various components of the resource management layer and or the components of the physical infrastructure . The resource management layer represents an isolation and compartmentalization of specific functions needed to manage the physical device or devices of the physical infrastructure so that efficiency of use of the physical device s is maximized. Each of the specific functions of the resource management layer are represented by one of the boxes illustrated in and is considered a stand alone component despite the possibility that each of the specific functions in various embodiments may be performed by a standalone physical computing device or multiple physical computing devices in collaboration. In various embodiments one or more physical computing devices may function as a single component or system of the ETE system such as the OMDB and in some embodiments a single component or system of the ETE system may perform one or several of the specific functions discussed with reference to and or other functions.

Referring now to the resource management layer originally presented in is shown in greater detail. The resource management layer includes several boxes representing specific modular functions categorized as various resource managers RMs of the ETE system . The first box represents a server provisioning RM . The server provisioning RM functions similarly to a person directing traffic. When a request for service is received by the ETE system RM recognizes the request and then instructs the various systems and components of the ETE system regarding timing of processes. The RM is in some embodiments an open source package that sequentially manages the service request. The RM receives the input parameters for the build from the requester and is used to automate the build servers and operating system configuration based on those input parameters.

The next box represents a storage provisioning RM . In some embodiments the storage provisioning RM is or includes the Storage Black Box SBB system which is discussed in greater detail with reference to et seq. Storage provisioning RM provides for the automated creation expansion contraction and deletion of storage allocations for hosts. The storage allocations may be or include network file system NFS storage or network attached storage or Internet Protocol storage fiber channel storage or Storage Area Network SAN or virtual storage. The storage provisioning RM is initiated by the server provisioning RM which calls RM and passes necessary parameters from a requester s service request to RM . According to some embodiments of the RM a system method or computer program product provides a storage allocation to a virtual machine in response to a service request including receiving a service request including a virtual machine and storage parameters and running a policy engine to determine appropriate storage allocation to achieve storage parameters received from the requester which may include applying a set of policy based rules to the received storage parameters to determine one or more appropriate logical components of storage to map to determine one or more array ports to enable and to determine one or more network ports to enable in order to establish one or more communication channels between the operating system of the virtual machine and the provisioned component space. Component space is provisioned and a communication channel is established between the operating system to the component space based on the policy engine.

The next box represents a virtual machine hypervisor management RM . RM describes the aggregate functionality for building virtual machines VMs . Thus if the build requires one or more virtual machines to be built rather than a more traditional physical server or bare metal machine then RM communicates through one or more hypervisors for interacting with the virtual machine. RM manages multiple sequential steps that must be taken to prepare for creating the virtual machine and to build and manage the virtual machine.

The next box represents a cloud intelligence RM . RM provides vision into the building process by communication with the hypervisor and or other components. In some embodiments the ETE system creates a temporary virtual construct called a shell to facilitate the build of a virtual machine. RM communicates with and gains intelligence from the shell for use by other resource managers or for presentation to a user.

The next box represents a power management RM . RM controls the power of resources being used during the building process. For example RM may control power up power down standby idle and reboot of physical machines being used during the building process. For example an automated build may require multiple reboots.

The next box represents a cloud usage tracking RM . RM provides vision into numerous parameters for each virtual machine being used in the build process. In some embodiments RM uses an orchestration management database OMDB which is discussed in concurrently filed patent application Ser. No. 13 678 029 entitled Orchestration Management of Information Technology which is assigned to the assignee of this application and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. In short the OMDB is a single authoritative source for accurate data or metadata storage and retrieval. In some scenarios the OMDB maintains data regarding over one hundred parameters associated with a single virtual machine and RM provides usage tracking information regarding the virtual machine based on the metadata provided by the OMDB. Examples of parameters tracked by RM using the OMDB include when the VM was created how long has it been running how much physical storage how much virtual storage identity of requester when was the last time the VM performed a specific function and the like. Any of these parameters may be provided to the user of the ETE system using RM to retrieve metadata stored in the OMDB.

The next box represents a network automation RM . RM provides an interface whereby the ETE system can register add change delete or otherwise manipulate domain name system DNS and Internet Protocol IP data. RM presents a host name for an IP address match and promulgation to the network. In order for the machine being built to be recognizable to the network it must be matched with an IP address and that IP address must be promulgated through the network so that it is known.

The next box represents an identity management RM . RM provides access management functionality. For example once the server has been fully built and turned over to the requester RM ensures that the requester and or any other authorized person is granted access to the server.

The next box represents a cloud configuration management RM . RM tracks and shares configuration and placement of all resources. In some embodiments RM is or includes the OMDB. RM represents the configuration of the OMDB such that metadata regarding each of the VMs is stored and retrieved appropriately. The next box represents a system management integration RM which in some embodiments is or includes the OMDB. RM provides two different types of communication namely data may be published and may be submitted. A requester can submit a demand for data as it is needed using various methods of access. RM also represents a near real time copy of the data that is stored in an off line database so that any external system or user who needs access to the data may get it without impacting the performance of the real time production copy of the data being used in the build process.

The next box represents a compute resource analysis RM . In some embodiments RM provides administrators an opportunity to perform preventive maintenance on the ETE system. For example the administrator may run some tests designed to stress the infrastructure and the virtual machines to ensure no problems exist. RM may detect patterns or conflicts systems that should not be within the ETE system environment e.g. because they consume too many resources .

The next box represents an application build and launch RM . RM provides multiple ways to put an application on a server. Once the ETE system has built a platform which generally includes the network host name working server with operating system and any un configured database or middleware applications may need to be installed for the server s to be ready for use by the business. In some embodiments the RM must pull down one or more applications from an external system. The ETE system is considered an open system i.e. it functions in an open format such that it may access any type of external system.

Additionally the ETE system periodically performs quality assurance checks throughout the build process. For example if a requester requests a basic server with a common operating system for hosting a website the ETE system builds the virtual server through the automated process without further manual input after the platform parameters have been input by the requester. The ETE system may build the server to a certain point reboots the server does some additional work reboots the server again and throughout performs periodic QA checks on the server to ensure appropriate parameters are met. If the build passes the QA check then the process continues and if the build does not pass the QA check then the process remediates the problem.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method for building a platform according to embodiments of the invention. The first step as represented by block is receiving a service request for a platform build and the second step as represented by block is receiving platform parameters from the requester. In various embodiments the service request may be received in different ways. For example a user may access an intranet or Internet page including a form having multiple questions and or fields for inputting information regarding the request for service or build request. In other embodiments a user may prepare a document or message including parameters for a service request and the document may be manually or automatically received and processed in order to extract the parameters for the service request. For example the document or message may be scanned and key words extracted so that the parameters for the service request may be known or determined. In some instances after such an automated extraction the user is asked to confirm the parameters in some way such as by email message phone call or otherwise. In some embodiments the requester is not a person or entity but rather is a software module resource manager or other automated requester. For example in some embodiments a software module is configured to recognize when a line of business requires one or more additional servers and to determine the parameters necessary for the additional servers to fill the needs of the line of business.

The next step as represented by block is to determine whether the service request requires any standalone physical machine and or any virtual machines. In some instances the requester may indicate a preference for one or the other. For example in one instance a requester may specify that they want a single physical machine in response to the service request. In other instances where the requester does not specify or where the requester may specify that the ETE system should take the build the most efficient machine s possible the system typically determines that one or more virtual machines or virtual servers will be appropriate end products of the build. The next step as represented by block is to initiate a build of one or more physical machines based on the received parameters in the case where it is determined that one or more physical machines is needed. Alternatively or in combination with step block represents initiating a build of one or more virtual machines based on the received parameters in the case where it is determined that one or more virtual machines is needed.

The next step as represented by block is provisioning physical and virtual storage based on the received parameters. In some embodiments the SBB system is used to provision storage. The SBB provides a framework for accepting and managing storage from any external vendor. The SBB is programmed to recognize the specific interface controls for each of the storage vendors and each storage component such that it provides a touch free logical provisioning of storage based on the parameters required for the build. For example a particular platform may include storage provisioned at many different physical sites each utilizing different interface protocols on the cloud.

The next step as represented by block is provisioning physical and virtual processing power based on the received parameters. The ETE system may determine that a platform requires a specific amount of processing power based on the parameters received and may provision the processing power from one or more processors that match the characteristics required for the processing. For example the processing speed and the types of calculations that will be required of the server may factor into the provisioning of the processing power. In some embodiments the processing power is provisioned in a real time or near real time way such that processing power is provisioned as it is needed and once it is no longer needed for a specific task it may be reclaimed and either used by one or more other virtual machines for processing or by the same virtual machine for processing a different task rather than sitting idly and awaiting another processing task similar to the completed task. In this regard processing resources may be utilized in an extremely efficient manner. This processing allocation or provisioning reclamation and adjustment is described in concurrently filed patent application Ser. No. 13 678 414 entitled Capacity Reclamation and Resource Adjustment which is assigned to the assignee of this application and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

The next step as represented by block is creating a shell and building and managing the virtual machines based on the received parameters. The build may involve many steps such as installation of operating systems and other software and configuration changes and or powering adjustments such as reboots in order for the installations and configurations to function properly. Vision may be provided into the build process by communication with the hypervisors that are managing the virtual machines or from other sources such as the resource managers that are running the build process as represented by block .

The next step as represented by block is managing power of resources. For example the power of the various physical components that are being used in the build may be managed. If a virtual machine has an operating system installed on a physical component and that physical component must be restarted for the operating system to become appropriately functional then the ETE system manages the physical component such that any other virtual machine s resources that are currently utilizing the physical component are either suspended temporarily or transferred to secondary or alternate physical components or resources during the power change. In some embodiments power is managed on a micro level within a physical component. In other words the portions of the physical component requiring power change or cycling in order to achieve a goal for one or more virtual machines are manipulated while the remaining portions of the physical component retain power configurations otherwise running.

The next step as represented by block is tracking cloud usage associated with parameters for the virtual machines. As discussed above metadata associated with the virtual machine s is stored regularly and can be retrieved as necessary in response to a user request and or a request from a software module or resource manager. The next step as represented by block is integrating the platform with network services. This allows the virtual machine to appear to the network internally and or externally so that it may be queried searched used for processing or otherwise utilized in accordance with its design parameters.

The next step as represented by block is managing addition and participation of active directory for user authentication. This allows the authorized users to access and use the platform upon completion of the build and also allows for modification of those granted access and their access parameters.

The next step as represented by block is tracking and sharing configuration and placement of all resources. This step in some embodiments involves the OMDB. The OMDB provides for aggregation of vendor and institution data necessary for information technology infrastructure deployment management and federation. Utilizing cloud computing technology the OMDB provides an aggregation of all data necessary for information technology infrastructures within an entity into one useable database that dramatically simplifies the ability to perform core functions and integrate external vendors and components with the entity s information technology infrastructure. In this way the present invention modularly stores data required for an entity s information technology infrastructure and allows for easy deployment intelligent monitoring federation of data and feedback associated with all aspects of the entity s information technology infrastructure.

Finally the next step as represented by block is providing an offline database of near real time data for non build access. In some embodiments a copy or partial copy of the OMDB or other datastore and or database used in conjunction with a build process is created and used for offline access of non build access. This eliminates efficiency drops in the OMDB or other primary data source due to non build related functions and therefore further increases the speed with which the build takes place.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method for potential post build processing. The first step as represented by block is performing periodic and or regular checks for problems and analyzing the results of the checks. In instances where problems with the build are detected the system may then pause the current build process or continue the current build process and perform a remediation concurrently as represented by block .

The last step as represented by block is building and launching the platform. This build refers to building the desired software into the machines for functionality meeting or exceeding the expectations of the requester based on the requested build parameters. This may include calling external systems using an open format for installing one or more applications to make the machines business ready. Once the software build has been completed the machines may be launched and used for their intended business purpose.

In various embodiments a host naming application programming interface HAPI is used. The HAPI is a new IP service that provides a unique name for the platform on the network. The naming framework accounts for any unique naming schema associated with any of the various systems of the cloud such that no other name provided by the HAPI naming framework will be a duplicate. The name assigned a service request is used for asset tracking application interaction and it is published as part of the platform s IP address and host name. The HAPI is described in concurrently filed patent application Ser. No. 13 678 424 entitled Host Naming Application Programming Interface which is assigned to the assignee of this application and is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

As illustrated in the automation intelligence workload manager of may monitor the systems within the information technology infrastructure which may also be referred to as or be part of the cloud as referred to herein which functions over and using a network . In the illustration of there are three different virtual local area networks VLAN illustrated. Any number of VLAN may be present within the information technology infrastructure. As illustrated VLAN1 VLAN2 and VLANx all include multiple hypervisors within each of the VLANs. The hypervisors are virtual managers of individual virtual machines within an information technology infrastructure. The hypervisors for example may provide the OMDB with an indication as to the use of the information technology data within each virtual machine. As illustrated in one of the hypervisors within VLANx is only using a limited amount of the information technology data deployed to the virtual machine associated with the hypervisor . Because the OMDB interacts with resource managers and or an automation intelligence workload manager that is capable of monitoring each of the information technology components or infrastructures including the network VLANs individual hypervisors associated with each virtual machine the ETE system is capable of determining which virtual machines may be over capacity or under capacity with respect to the information technology data the virtual machine is utilizing. Also shown in the infrastructure is the storage such as the SBB the storage controller and a SAN fabric which is the hardware that connects workstations and servers to the storage . The SAN fabric enables any server to any storage device connectivity through the use of Fibre Channel switching technology.

As illustrated in a monitoring display illustrates several different statuses within each hypervisor. A hypervisor that is utilizing approximately half of its designated resources is illustrated as hypervisor . A hypervisor that is utilizing all of its designated resources is illustrated as hypervisor . A hypervisor that is using none of its designated resources is illustrated as hypervisor . A hypervisor that is using one third of its designated resources is illustrated as hypervisor . In each of these cases the ETE system may be able to drill down within each hypervisor to determine specifically what resources are being utilized and what resources are available for reclamation and re allocation. In this way the ETE system may pinpoint specific resources such as a particular program memory etc. that is not being utilized and re allocate it to a new purpose. Furthermore the monitoring of the information technology infrastructure allows for monitoring of every information technology infrastructure component built the information technology data used for the builds the data on the cloud the inventory available capacity available performance billing building sequences etc. that may be necessary to build and or operate an information technology infrastructure for an entity.

In some embodiments the monitoring of individual hypervisors with the ability to drill down to the individual resources being utilized by the a virtual machine may further allow the ETE system to provide feedback with respect to the operational status of the virtual machine and or resources associated with it. For example the monitoring of a virtual machine may recognize an error or virus within data or resources within a single virtual machine. As such the recognized error may be sent in the form of feedback to a user or other individual such that the error may be monitored and or remediated to ensure smooth operation of the rest of the information technology infrastructure.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrates a cloud computing system environment wherein an ETE system a storage black box system an OMDB system and or other components and or systems of the invention and the various methods of the invention operate according to various embodiments.

A cloud may allow for on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable resources provided by the OMDB user system vendor systems not shown the ETE system the SBB system or otherwise. These resources may include but are not limited to hardware software networks servers storage services applications systems programs packages etc. and updates or programs to operate the same. The ETE system allows for these resources to be rapidly provisioned and released within the modular system. The network access may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments resources and data may be stored on the cloud and not at a local computing device such that the memory of the local computing device is not affected by the work associated with the resources on the cloud . Furthermore the cloud may provide processing capabilities such that the user may access processing power and or other resources from the cloud and not on his her local computing device. In this way a shared pool of resources may be accessed processed and stored by users of the cloud computing environment all within the cloud . In some embodiments the OMDB may store data that may be accessible via the cloud . In this way the data and associated resources may be stored on the cloud .

The cloud in some embodiments may take the form of several different service and or deployment models as required by the managing entity of the cloud . The service models include but are not limited to cloud software as a service cloud application as a service cloud platform as a service and count infrastructure as a service. Cloud software as a service model provides the user with the ability to run programs and applications on the cloud infrastructure as opposed to the user system . Cloud application as a service is similar to cloud software as a service but in this model the user is able to specify and save customer server configurations and application templates. Cloud platform as a service allows a user to be able to deploy onto the cloud user created or acquired applications and programs. Cloud infrastructure as a service allows a user to control portions of the cloud s operating systems deployment applications storage networking and other fundamental computing resources of the cloud .

The deployment models may include but are not limited to private model public model community model and hybrid model. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a private model. The private model allows the cloud to only be used only be a single entity. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a public model. The public model allows the cloud to be available to the public or to multiple entities. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a community model. The community model allows the cloud to be accessed and or used by a group of related entities. In some embodiments the cloud may be provided in a hybrid model. In the hybrid model the cloud may be used both publicly and privately based on the provider s requests may each be utilized for the cloud associated with the ETE system . However some models may require more monitoring than others. For example in the public deployment model a larger number of users may access the cloud and therefore there is more likely going to be a security issue simply based on the number of individuals who have access to the cloud and the data or applications located on the cloud . In some embodiments a private cloud may provide the most security protection to an entity such as a financial institution and other users of the cloud .

In some embodiments the user is an individual. The individual may be an associate and or other employee within a financial institution. In other embodiments the user may be a financial institution government organization corporation or other entity with an information technology infrastructure. The user may wish to retrieve vendor provided data off of the cloud for use on his her user system . In some embodiments the user may be provided with data from the cloud via one or more of the other systems in the environment .

An end to end system ETE system is a computer system server multiple computer systems and or servers or the like and may include one or more of the other system and or components shown in . The ETE system may be part of the cloud rather than merely connected to it. The facility management system in the embodiments shown has a communication device communicably coupled with a processing device which is also communicably coupled with a memory device . The processing device is configured to control the communication device such that the facility management system communicates across the network with one or more other systems. The processing device is also configured to access the memory device in order to read the computer readable instructions which in some embodiments includes a modular IT application . The memory device also has a datastore or database for storing pieces of data for access by the processing device .

The modular IT application is configured for instructing the processing device to perform various steps of the methods discussed herein and or other steps and or similar steps. In various embodiments the modular IT application is included in the computer readable instructions stored in a memory device of one or more systems other than the ETE system . For example in some embodiments the modular IT application is stored and configured for being accessed by a processing device of one or more other systems connected with the ETE system through cloud .

An OMDB system is configured for storing information as detailed herein. The OMDB system is a computer system server multiple computer system multiple servers a mobile device or some other computing device configured for use by the ETE system in conjunction with the methods discussed herein. The OMDB may have a communication device communicatively coupled with a processing device which is also communicatively coupled with a memory device . The processing device is configured to control the communication device such that the OMDB system communicates across the cloud with one or more other systems. The processing device is also configured to access the memory device in order to read the computer readable instructions which in some embodiments include an OMDB application . The memory device also has a datastore or database for storing pieces of data for access by the processing device and other components virtual machines and systems of the environment . The OMDB application is configured to provide a secondary near real time copy of the data for non build usage as discussed herein and or other functions.

The storage black box SBB system is configured for providing storage for one or more of the pieces of data used by the ETE system when running the modular IT application as discussed herein. In some embodiments the SBB system includes a communication device communicatively coupled with a processing device which is also communicatively coupled with a memory device . The processing device is configured to control the communication device such that the SBB system communicates across the cloud with one or more other systems. The processing device is also configured to access the memory device in order to read the computer readable instructions which in some embodiments include instructions for communicating with the ETE system and in some embodiments includes some or all of the modular IT application .

The user system is configured for providing access to the ETE system and or the other components virtual machines and or systems of the environment when running the modular IT application as discussed herein. In some embodiments the user system includes a communication device communicatively coupled with a processing device which is also communicatively coupled with a memory device . The processing device is configured to control the communication device such that the user system communicates across the cloud with one or more other systems. The processing device is also configured to access the memory device in order to read the computer readable instructions which in some embodiments include instructions for communicating with the ETE system and in some embodiments includes some or all of the modular IT application . In some embodiments the user system also includes a datastore .

In various embodiments one of the systems discussed above such as the ETE system is more than one system and the various components of the system are not collocated and in various embodiments there are multiple components performing the functions indicated herein as a single device. For example in one embodiment multiple processing devices perform the functions of the processing device of the ETE system described herein. In various embodiments the ETE system includes one or more of the OMDB system the SBB system and or any other system or component used in conjunction with or to perform any of the method steps discussed herein.

Referring now to the modular IT application which may be stored in the cloud in one or more memory devices for example memory device as computer readable instructions for example computer readable instructions may include computer readable instructions forming a capacity reclamation and resource adjustment CRRA application and or a host naming application programming interface HAPI application . In various embodiments the CRRA application and or the HAPI application are embedded in the end to end system and used during a build of a platform and or during multiple platform builds for improving efficiency and subsequent accuracy of network communication respectively. The CRRA application and or the HAPI application may be completely stored and executed on one device or portions of one or both may be stored and or executed on multiple devices and or over the cloud .

According to embodiments of the invention a storage black box system such as system of or some other system or systems running an application such as SBB application provides a centralized storage management solution that can leverage existing vendor storage to hide the complexities of the storage allocation and usage from the requester whether a software module or an entity. The SBB enables policy based storage management across multiple capacity resources including vendor physical and virtual storage solutions. The SBB provides a policy based rule set that analyzes a request for storage in light of the available storage components and determines what allocation details can best meet the requirements of the requested storage. Once the determination is made the SBB provisions the storage by reserving the storage from the vendor s and establishes the communication channel across appropriate array network and operating system ports so that the allocated storage is seen by the operating system of the associated virtual machine for example as a single supply of storage available for usage.

Referring now to an illustration of a storage automation framework including the storage black box is shown according to embodiments of the invention. The storage automation framework includes three primary components a portal and application programming interface API access and control framework component portal an automation engine and component tools and interfaces component interfaces .

The component interfaces box represents one or more interfaces for interacting with a vendor s storage solution s and or other external services or systems. The SBB functions in some regards as a repository for the knowledge of how to communicate with external systems such as the vendor systems. There may be many types of resources including many types of storage resources and network types. Additionally every vendor may have different solutions for primary secondary and backup storage needs. For example backup storage solutions may include tape or disk based solutions sets. The SBB once it is programmed to interface with a vendor s storage solution may automatically receive a request and provision resources using all the available resources at its disposal.

The component interfaces in various embodiments may include several pieces. For example component interfaces may include a vendor two API . API may interface with a well known network attached storage NAS which is file level computer data storage connected to a computer network providing data access to clients or IP sharing type of storage technology. In some instances vendors may also provide storage area networks SANs which are dedicated networks that provide access to consolidated block level data storage iSCSI which is an abbreviation of Internet Small Computer System Interface IP based storage networking standard for linking data storage facilities and or other platforms or storage solutions. In some solutions a vendor uses a Network File System NFS protocol which is a distributed file system protocol allowing a user on a client computer to access files over a network in a manner similar to how local storage is accessed. Some vendors have preexisting interfaces or resource managers as represented by NAS resource manager . The SBB may utilize some of the interface functionality of the preexisting interface in order to access the vendor solution. However despite a vendor having a pre existing interface the SBB in most embodiments must still be programmed to interact with some or all the components of the interface in order to apply the policy based provisioning functionality to achieve efficient and accurate storage provisioning in a multiple vendor type scenario. As another example the SBB may interact with a vendor three API and the SBB interacts with the FC resource manager . Additionally some vendors have not developed a preexisting interface or resource manager such as resource manager . In some embodiments the SBB must be configured to interact with the storage solution s of a vendor without the benefit of drawing from a preexisting interface or resource manager.

The SBB in conjunction with the storage automation framework provides a package response to a request for storage. For example if a requester requires a storage solution having certain parameters such as time to access storage duration of data storage how fast can storage be accessed in various situations how fast does the storage medium operate how quickly can additional storage be provided what are the input output rates and the like the SBB provides that storage solution similar to a customer shopping at a store being able to search for characteristics of a product and purchase a product based on its advertised characteristics. The requester of the SBB achieves the storage solution because of its real time capacity planning and mapping of component and network channel s ports at a micro scale and optimization of those parameters to meet the storage request.

With this discussion in mind the embodiment of the SBB of the automation engine shown in includes a block automation interface and a NAS automation interface each configured to interact with one or more vendor solutions through their respective APIs in order to properly map and provision a storage solution individualized for a specific request. In various other embodiments additional fewer and or different automation interfaces may be programmed into the SBB for interacting with different vendors solutions and or different types of storage solutions. The block automation interface communicates with the SBB block or fibre channel disk.

In some embodiments the SBB includes a storage resource manager which may communicate with a vendor s API such as a vendor s virtual machine resource manager through for example a resource manager API . Using the vendor s virtual machine resource manager a user can manually perform various tasks such as publish more storage to host pieces begins to use the storage through the virtual machine resource manager and the like. The SBB s storage resource manager is programmed to talk to the vendor s virtual machine resource manager in order to recognize new available storage add new storage to an allocation for one or more virtual machines establish a connection between the storage solution and the operating system such as storage is allocated as needed and the storage resource manager may also be able to determine the best location for reserving the storage based on the parameters required for the storage by accessing characteristics of the storage solution from the vendor s virtual machine resource manager .

In order to make this determination the storage resource manager uses the policy engine which includes a set of policy based management rules that determines the best vendor type size and other parameters of the storage to reserve and allocate for the request. The policy engine runs the parameters submitted by the requester through the set of policy rules that have vision into the available resources and their functional characteristics in order to determine the proper storage solution s . The policy engine takes into account not only the physical components available but also the logical components of the real and virtual storage components available. In some embodiments the set of rules includes rules specific to a type of virtual machine being built or otherwise limiting and or dictating the types sizes etc. of the storage solution s being chosen. In various embodiments the policy engine uses weighted policy rules. For example various characteristics of a build may be considered to have a different priority than others. As a specific example a number of virtual machines included in a single array may be restricted such that if the number of VMs on a single array reaches or surpasses the threshold then no further resources of the array may be allocated elsewhere. Similarly the latency or time to access a resource may be weighted such that if the latency of the physical representation of the NAV device see rises to a threshold then no further resources may be allocated from the physical representation of the NAV device. Another characteristic that may be taken into consideration by the policy rules is the NFS input output per second. Accordingly in some embodiments various characteristics of the build and or characteristics of the resources potentially available for use in the build are weighted and applied to the build process. In some of the same embodiments and or other embodiments one or more thresholds are established that dictate the use of resources during build initiatives.

Further in some embodiments the policy engine set of rules may include a risk component that manages risk. In many applications storage may be over allocated that is more storage may be allocated than actual real disk space available. This is called thin provisioning or over provisioning. The risk component of the policy engine manages this risk by receiving parameter s from the requester mandating the risk tolerance for the requested storage solution. In some embodiments where the requester does not mandate the risk tolerance one is assigned based on a predetermined set of rules for determining a risk tolerance. For example in one embodiment the risk tolerance is determined based on the importance of the functionality of the virtual machine for which the storage is being requested and or the purpose of the storage being allocated to the virtual machine. Thus if the storage is being used as the operating system for a virtual machine providing key functionality to an institution then the risk tolerance may be determined to be very low whereas if the storage is being used to install an easily accessible executable application that is not expected to be accessed regularly then the risk tolerance may be very high for over allocation. Accordingly a table of predetermined risk tolerances may be created and stored by the SBB and or policy engine so that in instances where risk tolerance is not provided by the requester the risk tolerance may be determined. In other instances where a table of risk tolerances does not exist or where the request cannot be reconciled with a table of preexisting risk tolerances the SBB may analyze the request to determine the risk tolerance. In some embodiments this may be done by analyzing the importance of the virtual machine to which the storage is to be allocated and or the intended use for the storage to be allocated. For example if a critical function such as installation of firmware is intended for the storage then the SBB may determine the risk tolerance is low. Conversely if the virtual machine for which the storage is being allocated is a duplicate of other virtual machines that may take up the functions of the virtual machine if it fails and thus provide a backup then the SBB may determine the risk tolerance for the storage to be allocated to the virtual machine is high. In this event the storage may be more greatly over allocated than were the risk tolerance determined to be low in which case the storage may be only slightly over allocated or not over allocated at all.

The SBB has several other modules or components in various embodiments. The product catalog provides a listing of the possible storage solutions or examples of the possible storage solutions available through the SBB . For example the types of disks available the types of backups available the speeds of the available disks the protocols being used to access the available disks as well as different virtualization protocols concepts being available for use. The monitoring component integrates with the product catalog such that the product catalog reflects an accurate representation of the available resources at a given time. The monitoring component in some embodiments may also be configured to monitor proper functionality of the storage solutions as well as communication channels established between operating system s and storage solution s . The metrics and reporting component provides reports detailing the allocations of the storage solutions such as to what virtual machines they are allocated how many resources are allocated physical and virtual measured characteristics of the performance of the storage solutions and the like. The SBB also includes logical provisioning data management and configuration standards that are discussed elsewhere herein. For example the logical provisioning component provisions the storage solution to the virtual machine s once the policy engine has determined the proper location and channel for the storage the data management component ensures data is properly read written modified and deleted from the storage solutions and the configuration standards houses some or all the configurations required for communicating both with the various vendor APIs and storage components as well as with the various network configurations and the operating systems of the virtual machines.

The application storage template is a template tool that allows requesters or users flexibility to dictate certain characteristics of their storage solutions such as specifying that a certain number of shares or physical allocations be included in the provided storage solution. The application storage template allows the requester or user to preconfigure the storage solution using specific parameters necessary for their build. The template interacts with one or more of the other components or modules of the SBB and or the vendor solution s in order to determine capacity plans and other characteristics for reserving proper storage. Then an agent may be used to engage the operating system of a virtual machine to automatically create and mount the storage configured by the application storage template . In some embodiments one or more of the other components shown in the SBB of are part of the storage resource manager . For example the storage resource manager may be or be part of the application storage template . Additionally the SBB may interact with a vendor s web services component which may include a solutions enabler . The requester or user may generally interact with these components directly to create certain storage solutions however the SBB includes interfacing capabilities for interacting automatically with the web services component .

In the portal the SBB interacts with a requester user and or administrator. A web services client provides an interface for interaction. In some embodiments outputs from one or more of the components or modules of the SBB may be presented to the user for viewing printing communicating or otherwise using. For example the metrics and reporting component may present reports to an administrator of the SBB . The web services client may also include an API such that a requesting software module or entity may call the SBB and request a storage allocation and input the parameters of the request.

Thus the SBB may be considered a plug n play docking station for storage having a built in configuration set for various vendor storage solutions thereby allowing a requester to achieve effective and fast storage allocations through touchless logical provisioning. The SBB may accept and manage storage from any vendor and as part of the framework provided specific configuration of interface controls. Thus when the requester calls for a storage solution the SBB builds the solution and includes a customer storage allocation that might include one type of storage or many types of storage.

Referring now to a combined flowchart and block diagram illustrates a representation of an example storage allocation according to embodiments of the invention. The bottom layer is a physical disk or array layer . This is the layer representing the physical storage components provided by the vendor s or otherwise. The next layer is the logical components layer . This layer may include virtual space achieved through for example over allocation. The next layer is the real potential space available for mapping or allocation layer . Thus when the SBB allocates storage this is the available pool of storage resources available for mapping to storage solutions for requests. The next layer is the network ports layer . In order to establish a channel from the physical disk to the virtual machine the SBB must configure the proper network ports as well as the proper operating system ports . Once the storage solution has been configured and provisioned allocated the operating system of the virtual machine may see the available storage as one piece or multiple pieces if desired as represented by block .

Referring now to a diagram illustrates a representation of a detailed example storage allocation using block layers of storage according to embodiments of the invention. The bottom layers are physical component layers. The system bay layer and the disk bay layer house the parts of the physical disks as represented by layer . The physical disks are represented by the thin pool which represents all the actual physical memory available for allocation by the SBB . The next layer is the logical component layer which can be manipulated to be any size as desired. The logical component layer includes both real and virtual storage space. The logical components may be represented by the META LUN or meta Logical Unit Number LUN layer . The meta LUN is a construct that represents multiple logical components based on how much space the SBB needs to present to the end server or the end operating system. The meta LUN represents a real potential space. When the storage is provisioned the server and or operating system is provided with access to this layer which is the real potential space layer of the storage. One or many meta LUNs may be accessible by a single server or operating system.

In some embodiments a single meta LUN may be presented to a server across multiple channels or ports as represented by layer . In layer the SBB may determine for performance reasons to allow access to the meta LUN through four network ports A B C and D. For example the storage solution may require certain performance capacity parameters that fibre channel port A may not support but port B does support and so on. The policy engine is cognizant of the requirements of the request and can configure the ports in order to take advantage of specific performance characteristics of different ports. In one embodiment for example for performance reasons such as redundancy the policy engine may use zoning over the fibre channel SAN which is represented by layer . Zoning refers to the process similar to the way a V LAN is setup in networking where the meta LUN is constructively split into zones that are each associated with one or more ports. The SBB may configure the zones so that the server can communicate with the storage piece similar to a routing tool creating a channel. This may be done in some embodiments by configuring the zones such that in that zone the server s worldwide name can talk to the array worldwide name that represents the desired port or ports.

Thus the SBB has configured the array components and the fibre channel ports and SAN. The operating system has also been configured to boot up with fibre channel host bus adapters HBAs and send out a query as represented by the OS multi pathing layer the OS HBA driver view layer which controls the OS ports and the emulated HBA layer . Layers and represent network switches. The multi pathing layer combines the multiple views of the meta LUN communicated over different ports switches and or channels so that the OS sees the multiple view as one single pieces of storage. Thus the OS can then once the handshaking and confirmations are complete perform typical functions on the storage space such as formatting putting in logical volume groups applications may be installed on the space etc. In summary the setup of the channels used for the example were performed by the policy based rules so that many many different implementations for various requests may be provisioned.

In various other embodiments such as those involving a vendor network of virtual machines the same representative steps must be taken although they are performed in slightly different ways. As shown in the a diagram illustrates a representation of another detailed example storage allocation using NAS layers of capacity according to embodiments of the invention.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrates a method for provisioning storage in response to a storage call according to embodiments of the invention. The first step as represented by block is determining specific interface controls and or configurations for one or more vendor storage components and one or more network configurations. For example in discussed above a block storage configuration example allocation was illustrated and in a NAS storage configuration example allocation was illustrated. Step represented programming the SBB to account for the intricacies of variations in the storage configurations and those interfaces and solutions provided by various vendors.

The next step as represented by block is to receive a call for storage include the required storage parameters. This call may come from for example a software module or application or from an individual user or entity. The next step as represented by block is to run the policy engine to determine the appropriate storage components and the array and network configurations necessary for achieving the required parameters. The next step as represented by block is to provision the component space and establish the channel from the operating system to the reserved components for storage usage. Finally the next step is to present the single storage space to the operating system for usage as represented by block .

In summary embodiments of the invention are directed to a system method or computer program product for providing a storage allocation to a virtual machine in response to a service request including receiving a service request including a virtual machine and storage parameters and running a policy engine to determine appropriate storage allocation to achieve storage parameters received from the requester which may include applying a set of policy based rules to the received storage parameters to determine one or more appropriate logical components of storage to map to determine one or more array ports to enable and to determine one or more network ports to enable in order to establish one or more communication channels between the operating system of the virtual machine and the provisioned component space. Component space is provisioned and a communication channel is established between the operating system to the component space based on the policy engine.

The invention may be embodied as a method including for example a computer implemented process a business process and or any other process apparatus including for example a system machine device computer program product and or the like or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer executable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable transitory or non transitory computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device.

In the context of this document a computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF signals or other mediums.

Computer executable program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer executable program code portions. These computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the code portions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer executable program code portions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the code portions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer executable program code may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational phases to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the code portions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide phases for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented phases or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented phases or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

As the phrase is used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing particular computer executable program code embodied in computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to flowcharts and or block diagrams. It will be understood that phases of the processes described herein may be performed in orders different than those illustrated in the flowcharts. In other words the processes represented by the blocks of a flowchart may in some embodiments be in performed in an order other that the order illustrated may be combined or divided or may be performed simultaneously. It will also be understood that the blocks of the block diagrams illustrated in some embodiments merely conceptual delineations between systems and one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams may be combined or share hardware and or software with another one or more of the systems illustrated by a block in the block diagrams. Likewise a device system apparatus and or the like may be made up of one or more devices systems apparatuses and or the like. For example where a processor is illustrated or described herein the processor may be made up of a plurality of microprocessors or other processing devices which may or may not be coupled to one another. Likewise where a memory is illustrated or described herein the memory may be made up of a plurality of memory devices which may or may not be coupled to one another.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

