---

title: Body weight scale with visual notification system and method
abstract: An interactive body weight scale is presented. The body weight scale may have computing and data communication ability to track a user's weight by connecting to a number of different electronic devices. The body weight scale is capable of recording an audio message, converting the audio message to message text, and transmitting the message to a remote social network. The scale may also receive message responses from the remote network and play the messages back based on whether a particular message is a positive message. A scale use indicator provides a reminder for a user to use the body weight scale.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09157787&OS=09157787&RS=09157787
owner: BBY Solutions, Inc.
number: 09157787
owner_city: Richfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
The present application relates to the field of body weight scales. More particularly the described embodiments relate to a system and method for an interactive body weight scale.

One embodiment of the present invention provides a digital body weight scale having the ability to record and transmit weight information for an individual scale user. The digital weight scale may have a load sensing surface a display a data input interface a wireless communication interface and a memory containing one or more weight logs for one or more individual scale users. The electronic scale may track health information including but not limited to weight body fat percent water weight body mass index and other health metrics. The system may comprise the body weight scale a digital food scale a mobile electronic device such as a smartphone and a remote social media accessible via the Internet. The system may allow a body weight scale user to record an audio message at the scale publish the message to a social media as a social media post receive post responses and read or listen to the post responses at the digital body weight scale. The system may analyze post responses to determine whether a particular post response is a positive response. If the post response is not a positive response the post will not be displayed or played back by the scale. The scale may also play back messages pertaining to use of the digital food scale and mobile device.

In another aspect a scale use indicator on the digital body weight scale encourages scale use by visually signaling a scale user to weigh in on the scale. The scale use indicator may provide progressive signals depending upon the length of time since the user s most recent scale use.

Body scale mobile device and food scale each have wired or wireless data communication capability. Wireless interfaces and of scale device and food scale respectively may include one or more of Wi Fi connections Bluetooth connections GSM or CDMA cellular communications or other wireless protocols. Body scale device and food scale may each be capable of more than one type of wireless communication. The system shown in provides a comprehensive way for an individual to track the individual s weight and nutrition over time. The system also comprises a data network such as the Internet which allows body scale to send and receive social media messages as well as to store weight and nutrition information remotely. In one embodiment the integrated system may allow a user to store and access synchronized weight logs and nutrition logs using multiple devices for multiple scale users. Other device data streams may also be stored and synchronized.

Body scale comprises a weight log which includes weight information over a period of time for an individual. In a preferred embodiment body scale includes multiple weight logs for multiple scale users. The body scale preferably identifies and distinguishes between different scale users so that each user can track their weight information over a period of time. In one embodiment the body scale may recognize unique users based on recognizing the weight of an individual on the scale and predicting the correct user based on the weight. In another embodiment the mobile device may send a signal to the body scale when the mobile device is in proximity to the body scale . In this embodiment the body scale would receive the signal from mobile device and select weight log corresponding to the owner of the mobile device . Alternately a simple device such as a key fob or watch could contain wireless signal capabilities to send a signal to the body scale to select a particular weight log . Such a key fob or watch could also be used to signal to the body scale that the user is in close proximity which could signal the scale to perform specific tasks unique to that scale user such as causing a light to strobe. The weight log may be updated with a new log entry every time a particular individual uses the weight scale for example daily or weekly. Weight log may include information such as the user s weight age height body fat body mass index BMI weigh in date and time and other physical health related data. The health related data is preferably measured and stored in weight log at regular intervals such as every time a user weighs in on the scale. In a preferred embodiment body scale contains recorded notes . The notes may be audio messages recorded at the scale using an internal scale microphone. The notes are preferably stored in a physical non transitory scale memory. Alternately or in addition voice recognition software may convert the audio message into message text after which the text note could be stored on the memory. The notes may also be text notes entered using a text input such as a keyboard. Notes may serve a number of purposes. The user may record messages detailing health goals comments related to daily or weekly progress posts to send to one or more social media services responses to social media posts reminder messages etc. One or more notes may be transmitted to social media over network . If notes are transmitted and posted to a social media the post may receive responses from other members of the social media . These responses may be received via the data network and stored as social media responses which may be in audio response format or text response format. Alternately responses may not be stored in memory but instead played back as an audio or text data stream over the remote network.

The body weight scale may communicate directly or indirectly with mobile device and food scale . Devices may be devices as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 605 517 filed Sep. 6 2012 and entitled Connected Food Scale System and Method the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Mobile device has a nutrition software application program app stored on a physical device memory. Food information tracked by the app is stored in food log . App may also receive weight data from body scale and store the weight data in weight log . App may not be limited to tracking only food and weight data. App may also include activity tracking insurance sponsored programs medical device and medical therapy apps or chronic disease management apps.

Mobile device preferably has an internal digital camera that allows food images to be captured and stored in mobile device . In the preferred embodiment images correspond to foods that the user has eaten and each image is associated in food log with one or more food log entries for a specific date and time. A user may be able to tag images with image tags . Each image may have one or more tags associated with the image. Tags may categorize each image as being related to one or more other types of images having the same tag or tags. The tags may be text strings representing various attributes of foods in the images such as breakfast fruits healthy unhealthy good for me restaurant meal or other food categories or attributes.

Food scale is preferably able to communicate with one or both of the mobile device and body scale . Food scale may have a food log that is synchronized with the food log of mobile device . Images and image tags of food scale may also synchronize with images and image tags of mobile device . Body scale may receive images from one or both of mobile device and food scale and store the images as images in connection with the weight log of body scale . The images may later be displayed to the scale user.

Social media may synchronize with body scale mobile device and food scale . Social media could also synchronize directly or indirectly with a number of third party applications or devices. Images images tags weight log and food log may be uploaded to the social media to be stored. Social media may also store message posts which may be recorded notes and post responses which may be transmitted to body scale as social media responses .

Turning to body weight scale contains internal components for functioning within the system of . Body scale includes a central computer processor CPU connected to a physical non transitory memory . A wireless communication interface provides data communication connectivity to a remote network . Memory stores user data including a user identifier to uniquely identify a scale user a weight log uniquely belonging to the user identified by user ID one or more notes images of foods eaten by the user image tags belonging to images and responses received from a social media . Images may be received via a data connection from one or more of food scale mobile device and social media . Although not specifically listed in other types of related data may be stored such as water weight lean weight body fat percent body mass index etc. The elements stored in memory may be also synchronized and stored remotely in a cloud based storage.

Body weight scale may have various sensors and input devices. A load sensor captures body weight which is converted to a digital weight signal by an analog to digital converter . A microphone allows a scale user to record audio notes and one or more body measurement sensors may record other body measurements. Sensors may include body fat sensors blood pressure cuffs ECG monitors heart rate monitors and other such sensors for detecting physical measurements for a scale user. A speaker and visual display provide output to the user. A data input device may include a keyboard mouse touch screen or other controller to allow a user to input information into the body scale . Additionally scale has a clock to determine weigh in date and time for a particular scale use.

The body scale of may have communication capabilities for interacting with social media . A user may record a message using microphone . The recorded audio message may be processed by speech recognition software and sent via the wireless interface to social media as a social media post. The body scale may also receive post responses from social media . A text to speech program may convert a message response text to an audio message that can be played back on speaker . Alternatively the messages received from the social media could be audio messages that can be played over speaker without the need for text to speech conversion. In one embodiment social media responses are analyzed using natural language processing programming and decision programming to determine whether a response should be played back on speaker . For example a user may wish to only hear social media responses that are positive responses. This allows a user to ignore unconstructive and detrimental comments while attempting to achieve a goal.

The display may allow a user to view data in many different ways. In one embodiment display has a screen that changes based on a selection of buttons . These buttons may be small buttons designed to be utilized by pressing the buttons with a finger. Alternatively in an embodiment in which display is provided on a weighing surface of scale the buttons could be larger to allow user interaction by pressing the buttons with a user s foot. As shown in the Main button displays a current weight for a scale user a current body fat percentage a current body mass index a goal and a change in weight since the most recent user weigh in. Other raw scale data could also be displayed. In The Graph button allows a user to view a graph of previous weight data. Graph may show the user s change in weight over a period of time. In Images button allows a user to view images of foods eaten by the individual. In one embodiment the images are images of foods that the user has eaten within a specific time period. For example images could be images received from mobile device for foods eaten within the past 7 days or past 24 hours or other specific time period. The images may also be chosen from among all images in the body scale . The images may have associated tags that represent categories or attributes of the corresponding images. In the Social button allows a user to view a screen to send and receive social messages. The Social display may have a record button to record an audio note a play back button to play back notes and a play responses button to play back selected social media responses . The Social display could alternately display social media responses as text. A progress button may cause the scale to present encouraging messages for the scale user in response to a specific achievement or overall goal.

Display may also have one or more indicators to remind an individual to weigh in on the scale. The indicator provides a means for driving adherence of scale use. Indicator could for example be LED lights of various colors or could be part of the scale display . The indicator may be used in a number of ways. The indicator may flash or strobe may change color may vary in strobe duty cycle etc. For example a user may be assigned an indicator of a first color. If the user does not use the scale for more than for example three days the indicator would begin to flash at a low duty cycle. The duty cycle may increase successively as more time elapses between consecutive weigh ins by the scale user. In an alternate configuration an indicator for an individual may be a first color when the individual is weighed on the scale. After a predetermined amount of time if the user has not used the scale the indicator would change to a second color. Later if the user has not used the scale after a second predetermined time the indicator would change to a third color. The display may be capable of notifying more than one user either by assigning a single light to a single user or by assigning a single light color to an individual scale user. Each user s scale activity is tracked independently. In an alternate embodiment the indicator could also include audio indicators such as a tone beep alarm or other audible indicator. In one embodiment a mobile device or other wireless device may send a user identifying signal to body scale when the mobile device is in proximity to body scale . In this embodiment the indicator could function to only illuminate or sound when mobile device is in proximity to body scale . Indicator would then only display a reminder when the user is near body scale .

While the indicators are shown in as being on the same surface as the display one of the preferred embodiments utilizes the indicators on a different surface. For instance the indicators could face the ground when the scale is in use as is shown in . When lit the indicators would create an aura of light around the bottom of the scale that could be noticed from across the room yet still remain unobtrusive. In other embodiments the indicators could consist of a plurality of LED lights located around the periphery of the body scale . Lighting patterns of the indicators would again be noticed from across the room. In this example if the periphery of the scale were glowing green the user associated with the green color would know that it is time to use the scale. If more time passes the color could pulse to indicate that it has been longer since the user has taken a measurement. The pulse could then turn into an on off flashing after an even longer period. In an embodiment utilizing a key fob or watch to communicate to the scale that a user is present the indicator could increase light intensity for the user identified by the key fob or watch.

In a method for using an interactive body scale is presented. Although the method is presented in as a series of sequential steps the steps may be performed in any order and in any combination it would be possible to implement variations that exclude steps or that include additional steps. With reference to in step a message is recorded at the scale using a microphone . The message may be an audio message and may be converted in step from an audio message to message text via speech recognition programming . Alternately the message may be received as text input via an input device . In step the message may be stored as audio or text in a memory of scale . In step the scale records a current user body measurement. In one embodiment the body measurement is a user weight detected using weight sensor . The body measurement could also include BMI body fat percent heart rate or other such body measurements detected by sensor . In an alternate embodiment the recorded body measurement is not a number but a calculated value based on current and previous measurement data such as a percent change in weight e.g. 1 of body weight lost . In step a social media post related to the body measurement recorded in step is sent. The social media post may be a message that reflects the individual s mood at the time of weighing or may be a reaction by the user of the user s current state in relation to a goal. Step may be performed automatically in response to recording the message in step or in response to recording the body measurement in step . In another embodiment the scale user must actively choose to initiate sending the social media post for example through user interface or through a command on mobile device . The body measurement may also be sent along with the social media post.

In step a textual or audio response to the social media post is received at the scale from the social media . In most cases this response will be related to a message posted earlier by the user of the scale . The post response may be positive e.g. Keep up the good work or not positive e.g. You haven t made any progress yet. . In step the post response is analyzed using natural language processing programming and decision programming to determine whether the post response is a positive response. At step if the post response is positive the method proceeds to step in which the post response is stored in the memory of scale . In an alternate embodiment in which post responses are streamed directly from a remote data connection the post response would not be stored but would be received and analyzed on demand. In step if the positive post response is a text response the text is converted to audio via text to speech programming . The method then proceeds to step in which the post response is played back at the scale as audio through speaker .

If the post response is analyzed and found to be not positive in step the post response is disregarded in step and not played back at scale . Instead in step the scale generates a positive feedback message for the user. The message may be a pre recorded message or could also be a post response received in the past. The chosen feedback message could also be the message recorded in step to remind the user of their goal. In step the message is played back as audio on the scale speaker .

In step the message may be played back in response to a trigger such as a load being sensed on the weight load sensor or a request from a user received via the scale user interface. A push notification from the social media may also trigger the message to be played back in step . The message may be played back sequentially along with the post response allowing the scale user to hear both the originally posted message and the post response together. In an alternate embodiment the text could be simply displayed on the scale display and not played back as audio. In some circumstances the played message could be selectively played based upon how well the user of the scale is meeting a certain weight loss goal. For instance if a user has not progressed toward their goal in the last few weighing sessions the scale could respond with a positive message recorded by a friend to the social media supporting the user as they try to reach their goal. If no responses are received in step then the body weight scale may provide a message to play back in step . This message may be based on perceived progress made by the scale user. This ensures that the user is always able to receive positive feedback at the scale.

The method of could be repeated for the scale user at a later time. In these subsequent repetitions steps and could be skipped and the message saved in step could be associated with a subsequent body measurement in step and then sent as a social media post in step . The method would then continue as indicated.

The tags associated with the images may be tags created by the user when the food images were captured. Alternatively the foods images could be associated with food data such as calorie or fat content. In the incorporated patent application Ser. No. 13 605 517 images are created by a mobile device such as device and associated with food data at a central computer. The device could analyze the food data associated with the image to determine whether the food should be tagged as supporting the user s goal low calorie or low fat food for a weight loss goal or tagged as being adverse to the goal e.g. high calorie high fat or high sugar content food for a weight loss goal . These automatically generated tags could then be used in association with the images by the scale to control when the images are displayed after a weighing session.

The many features and advantages of the invention are apparent from the above description. Numerous modifications and variations will readily occur to those skilled in the art. For example data in the system could be implemented as a cloud based system in which data storage and analysis is performed remotely and then sent to the body weight scale on demand. In this implementation data storage capacity in the weight scale mobile device and food scale could be reduced making the system more efficient. Since such modifications are possible the invention is not to be limited to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described. Rather the present invention should be limited only by the following claims.

