---

title: Rating system and spatial searching therein
abstract: Techniques for a rating system are described, including presenting a visual field including two or more axes, each axis representing a criterion associated with an asset, receiving a user rating associated with the asset, the user rating including a point on the visual field, and updating a presentation of the visual field to include the user rating. Further, techniques for spatial searching within the rating system are described, including presenting a visual field including two or more axes, each axis representing a criterion, receiving a search inquiry including a shape input on the visual field, searching assets in response to the search inquiry, and displaying a subset of the assets determined from the searching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08447750&OS=08447750&RS=08447750
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08447750
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120730
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 070 932 filed Feb. 22 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 244 705 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to software and rating systems. More specifically techniques for a rating system and spatial searching therein are described.

Conventional rating systems often use a basic quantitative scoring system e.g. four stars or five bars . Further conventional rating systems are limited in how an individual can provide input. For example in a conventional rating system based on four stars a user is limited in the granularity of feedback available. In other words a user can only provide a rating of zero stars one star two stars three stars or four stars and nothing in between. This limits the value of a user s rating since the user must conform his or her rating to the restrictions of the conventional rating system. Further a conventional rating system typically involves rating a single criterion for an item and a user cannot provide input on multiple criteria with a single rating.

Using conventional methods searching within conventional rating systems typically includes selecting a particular rating. For example using the conventional rating system based on four stars a user can search for user ratings of three stars. The results from a conventional search have minimal use and a user likely must search multiple times to find desired information.

Thus a solution for a rating system and spatial searching therein without the limitations of conventional techniques is needed.

Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

In some examples the described techniques may be implemented as an application or as a module or sub component of another application. The described techniques may be implemented as software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. If implemented as software the described techniques may be implemented using various types of programming development scripting or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C AIR Flex Java Javascript Ajax COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. Design publishing and other types of applications such as Dreamweaver Shockwave Fireworks and InDesign may also be used to implement the described techniques. The described techniques may be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

Techniques for a rating system and spatial searching therein are described. Computer programs software or applications used to create or modify text visual graphic audio video or other types of content presentations and graphical user interfaces GUIs may be used to provide a rating system and spatial searching therein. A rating system may be used to rate assets. Assets may include any type of media including for example videos text images sound files and documents. A rating system may include a visual field with two or more axes each axis representing a criterion associated with an asset. For example in a rating system for a political video one axis may have radical on one end and conservative on the other end and another axis may have emotional on one end and logical on the other end. Users may rate an asset by selecting a point on the visual field. For example a user may think a particular political video is slightly radical and somewhat emotional. That user may then select a point on the visual field corresponding to the desired rating. Instead of being constrained by discrete feedback options a user may select any point on the visual field. Further in a single rating i.e. a point on the visual field a user provides input on multiple criteria represented by the axes of the visual field and this can be accomplished in one simple operation e.g. a single click .

Further a rating system presented in a visual field may be searched by a shape input on the visual field. For example if a user wants to see a subset of videos that are rated as radical and logical the user may search the rating system by entering a search inquiry represented by a shape input on the visual field. In some examples a shape input may be a square. In other examples a shape input may be a line. In still other examples a shape input may be a circle. In yet other examples a shape input may be another geometric shape or an amorphous shape. In examples where the visual field includes two axes e.g. the visual field is divided into four quadrants a search inquiry may be a selection of one of the four quadrants of the visual field. In response to the search inquiry the assets having ratings that fall within the shape input are displayed. For example if a user inputs a small square in a visual field the assets having ratings that fall with the small square are displayed.

In other examples server may be implemented and used to deliver i.e. serve content information or data requested by one or more of clients . For example content requested by client may be performed using a web browsing application not shown installed on client . Content may include text documents files images photos applications or any type of information or data. When requested from server content may be delivered to the requesting client i.e. clients . In other examples server may be a server configured for a given purpose e.g. ad server web server content server application server web services gateway and others . In yet other examples server may be a server network configured for a given purpose e.g. ad server web server content server application server web services gateway and others .

Techniques for a rating system and spatial searching therein such as those described herein may be implemented using the above described system and topology. In some examples techniques for a rating system and spatial searching therein may be performed locally on one or more of clients . In other examples techniques for a rating system and spatial searching therein may be performed remotely or in a distributed manner using server one or more of clients and network . Further other system configurations topologies clients end devices intermediate devices and implementation techniques may be used and are not limited to those described above.

Display module may be configured to present a visual field with two or more axes. In some examples each axis of the visual field represents a criterion associated with the asset. In other examples display module may present a visual field showing one or more user ratings associated with the asset and a particular user rating may be shown in a distinguishing manner. In still other examples display module may present a visual field showing a median rating. Further display module may modify the presentation of the visual field when at least one of the axes is modified to represent a different criterion.

Rating module may be configured to receive a user rating associated with an asset. Further rating module may be configured to generate a median rating associated with the asset. In some examples a median rating is an average of user ratings for the asset. In other examples a median rating is determined by one or more algorithms. For example an algorithm may weigh one user s input differently depending on various factors including but not limited to the user s standing in the community and the total number of ratings from the user.

Search module may be configured to receive a search inquiry. A search inquiry may include a shape input on the visual field presented by display module . In some examples a shape input may be a square. In other examples a shape input may be a line. In still other examples a shape input may be a circle. In yet other examples a shape input may be another geometric shape or an amorphous shape. In examples where the visual field includes two axes e.g. the visual field is divided into four quadrants a search inquiry may be a selection of one of the four quadrants of the visual field. In response to the search inquiry search module searches assets. Display module may be configured to display a subset of the assets having ratings that fall within the shape input.

A transaction flow initiated by an interaction to provide a user rating may be communicated using API from another application or operating system OS . In some examples an interaction to provide a user rating includes selection of a point on the visual field presented by display module . Logic module may be implemented to provide logic control coordination command signaling and other functions and features for application . For example logic module may be configured to coordinate between rating module and display module when a median rating has been generated and the visual field is changed accordingly. In other examples system and the described elements may be varied in implementation function or structure and are not limited to the examples provided.

Here visual field is presented with axes with axis representing one criterion associated with asset and axis representing another criterion associated with asset . In axis represents criterion A with one end of axis representing one extreme of criterion A e.g. A and another end of axis representing another extreme of criterion A e.g. A . Similarly axis represents criterion B with one end of axis representing one extreme of criterion B e.g. B and another end of axis representing another extreme of criterion B e.g. B . As an example axis may represent the criterion of political viewpoint where A may be radical and A may be conservative. As another example axis may represent the criterion of emotion where B may be emotional and B may be logical. In some examples axes may be variable. For example if axis represents criterion A and axis represents criterion B multiple variations are possible. In one example axis may be modified to represent criterion C while axis remains unmodified and presentation of the visual field is updated to show the visual field with axis representing criterion C and axis representing criterion B. In another example axis may be modified to represent criterion D while axis remains unmodified and presentation of the visual field is updated to show the visual field with axis representing criterion A and axis representing criterion D. In yet another example axis may be modified to represent criterion E while axis may be modified to represent criterion F and presentation of the visual field is updated to show the visual field with axis representing criterion E and axis representing criterion F.

Visual field may be configured to receive a user rating associated with asset . In some examples a user rating may be a point on the visual field. As shown in visual field may display multiple user ratings received for asset as multiple dots on the visual field. When a user rating is inputted on the visual field presentation of the visual field is updated to include the user rating. After a user rates asset that user s rating may be presented in a distinguishing manner. For example that user s rating may be represented by an X like user rating while other users ratings of asset may be represented by dots on the visual field. Although in user rating is represented by an X in other examples user rating may be represented by other distinguishing symbols.

After one or more user ratings for asset have been received a median rating may be generated. In some examples a median rating is an average of user ratings for the asset. For example if there is only one user rating the average of the user ratings is equal to the one user rating. In the example of since multiple user ratings have been received the average of the user ratings is an average of the user ratings received. In other examples a median rating is determined by one or more algorithms. For example an algorithm may weigh one user s input differently depending on various factors including but not limited to the user s standing in the community and the total number of ratings from the user. As more user ratings are received the location of median rating on visual field may change. As a new user rating associated with asset is received a median rating is generated and presentation of visual field is updated to include the new position of median rating . In some examples median rating may be presented in a distinguishing manner. For example median rating may be represented by a small box with a symbol within it. In other examples median rating may be represented by other distinguishing symbols. In yet other examples system and the above described elements may be varied and are not limited to the functions structures configurations or implementations provided.

Here visual field is presented with axes with axis representing one criterion associated with asset and axis representing another criterion associated with asset . In axis represents criterion A with one end of axis representing one extreme of criterion A e.g. A and another end of axis representing another extreme of criterion A e.g. A . Similarly axis represents criterion B with one end of axis representing one extreme of criterion B e.g. B and another end of axis representing another extreme of criterion B e.g. B . As an example axis may represent the criterion of political viewpoint where A may be radical and A may be conservative. As another example axis may represent the criterion of emotion where B may be emotional and B may be logical. In some examples axis and axis may be variable as described above in conjunction with axes in .

Visual field may be configured to receive search inquiry . In some examples a search inquiry may be a shape input on the visual field. As shown in in some examples a shape input may be a square. In other examples a shape input includes other shapes including a line a circle other geometric shapes or amorphous shapes. In yet other examples where visual field includes two axes e.g. the visual field is divided into four quadrants search inquiry may be a selection of one of the four quadrants of visual field . In response to search inquiry assets are searched and a subset of the assets determined from the search is displayed. Thus assets that fall within search inquiry are displayed. In some examples the displayed subset of assets has median ratings that fall within the search inquiry. In other examples the displayed subset of assets is the subset of assets in which all of the individual ratings for the asset fall within the search inquiry. For example if the search inquiry was a shape input of a square on the visual field in some examples assets having median ratings that fall within the square are displayed and in other examples assets having all of its individual ratings inside the square are displayed. For example using the criterion examples from above where A represents radical A represents conservative B represents emotional and B represents logical since search inquiry is placed closer to the upper right corner of visual field the assets determined from the search and displayed are assets that were rated as more emotional than logical and more conservative than radical. In other examples search inquiry may be a selection of one of the four quadrants of visual field . For example if search inquiry was a selection of the upper right quadrant of visual field the assets determined from the search and displayed would be assets that were rated as emotional and conservative. Further tags may be used to enhance display of the search results. Assets determined from the search that are tagged with T are displayed in the T portion of the search results and assets determined from the search that are tagged with T are displayed in the T portion of the search results. Although in the search results are presented in a Venn diagram in other examples the presentation of search results may be varied. In yet other examples system and the above described elements may be varied and are not limited to the functions structures configurations or implementations provided.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.

The term computer readable medium refers to any tangible medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Instructions may further be transmitted or received using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium may include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such instructions. Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus for transmitting a computer data signal.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution.

The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

