---

title: Method and apparatus for multimedia communications with different user terminals
abstract: Multimedia communications in multimedia communications with different user terminals. Various optimization for the delivery of multimedia content across different channels are provided concurrently to a plurality of user terminals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805358&OS=08805358&RS=08805358
owner: Virginia Innovation Sciences, Inc.
number: 08805358
owner_city: Alexandria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120210
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 067 079 filed on May 6 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 802 418 filed on May 22 2007 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 501 747 entitled System and Method for providing Locally Applicable Internet Content with Secure Action Requests and Item Condition Alerts and filed on Aug. 10 2006 which claims priority to provisional Application Ser. No. 60 787 510 entitled An Intelligent Kiosk for Mobile Payment and filed on Mar. 31 2006 and also claims the benefit of provisional Application Ser. No. 60 707 561 entitled A Novel Structure of Cellular System for Internet Access and filed on Aug. 12 2005. The entire contents of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

As a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 067 079 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 802 418 this application is also a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 165 341 filed on Jun. 24 2005 and entitled Methods Systems and Apparatus for Displaying the Multimedia Information from Wireless Communication Networks which claims priority to provisional Application Ser. No. 60 588 358 filed on Jul. 16 2004 and entitled A Method and System for Displaying the Multimedia Information from Wireless Communications or Portable IT. The entire contents of these applications are also hereby incorporated by reference.

As a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 067 079 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 802 418 this application is also a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 540 637 filed on Oct. 2 2006 and entitled A Method and System for Improving Client Server Transmission over Fading Channel with Wireless Location and Authentication Technology via Electromagnetic Radiation which claims priority to provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 722 444 filed on Oct. 3 2005 60 787 510 filed on Mar. 31 2006 60 832 962 filed on Jul. 25 2006 and 60 899 037 filed on Feb. 2 2007. The entire contents of these applications are also hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates generally to providing multimedia content and more particularly to providing multimedia content to and from various different devices.

Empowered by the next generation of wireless technology cellular networks can provide users with access to information from the Internet such as video on demand video conferences databases etc. The use of cellular phones is thus no longer limited to voice transmission.

However there are still some problems with the delivery of Internet content through cellular phones. For example even with the high bandwidth connection provided by advanced cellular Systems there remains a bottleneck between the Internet and the cellular network CN as well as delays caused by the Internet itself. This condition hinders the ability of cellular phone users to fully exploit the capabilities of the advanced CN. Since smooth and effective data flow is important to users this bottleneck hinders the adoption of cellular phones for Internet access.

Making payment requests is another area of need. Although more and more individuals have become accustomed to purchasing goods and services online there is not a streamlined and consistent mechanism for securely making requests for such payments.

Still another area of need relates to alerts. Locations including homes offices and other environments typically include computing devices as well as at least some form of network connection. Despite all of this connectivity there are certain conditions for which adequate alerts remain unavailable. For example billions of children wear diapers and probably a quarter of them may suffer the effects of wet diapers at any given moment since caretakers e.g. parents baby sitters etc. are not apprised of the status of their diapers in real time.

Thus there remains a need for Systems and corresponding devices and processes that avoid the shortcomings of existing networks for delivering Internet content using the CN. There also remains a need for Systems and corresponding techniques for making payment requests. There also remains a need for Systems and corresponding techniques for delivering alerts to individuals such as caregivers tasked with managing a child in diapers.

Handheld mobile terminals e.g. cellular phones personal digital assistants PDA continue to evolve both in terms of execution platform and functionality. It is believed that the much of the functionality provided by a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop will ultimately become virtually available in handheld mobile terminals which will allow users to work with and access multimedia information any time and anywhere.

For example one particularly appealing advantage of the next generation wireless communication system and beyond i.e. 3G 4G etc. is the capacity to support high rate multimedia data services as well as conventional voice services. In a conventional cellular system a mobile terminal communicates with a base station wirelessly. Multimedia information including but not limited to television 3D images network games and video phone calls is transmitted from various service providers and received for display on the screen of a mobile terminal. The net result of such a system is rich multimedia information being destined for display on the small screens typical of cellular phones or the like .

In these and similar Systems the mobile terminal functions as a multimedia terminal to display multimedia information including high resolution graphics and high quality real time audio video sent from high data rate wireless communications network. The limited size e.g. 2 3 and capability of the mobile terminal screen may render enjoyment of the high rate data flow applications inconvenient and in some instances useless. One consequence of this inadequacy is likely shrinkage of the potential market size for handheld mobile terminals. Indeed some have suggested that development of high data rate Systems such as 3G Systems may be pointless given the limitations imposed by the small screen.

Some mobile units appear to provide a remote control function to an external display system. However these do not appear to solve the small screen problem outlined above. That is they do not accommodate display on a larger external display of video and other multimedia information originally destined for the mobile terminal display screen.

For example one such interface accommodates usage of the mobile terminal as a remote control for a television by feeding programming guide information to the mobile terminal. This is useful for allowing the programming guide to be viewed locally while the larger screen displays a current program but does not address to the above described small screen problem.

Still another issue is the various different devices that a user may have to engage in communications as well as the various different vehicles for the enjoyment of content that the user now has. No longer does the typical user merely watch television. Instead the user may use their home computer television MP3 PDA cellular phone or various hybrid devices to enjoy content. This content also arrives from a variety of sources not just broadcast television as in the past. While it may be desirable to have more options some consumers may feel overwhelmed trying to manage everything.

What is needed is a solution to the problem of diminished user enjoyment of the various devices and corresponding content that a user may enjoy due to the complications of trying to manage content and interface with a variety of different devices that are not necessarily compatible.

The present invention provides methods and apparatus for multimedia communications with different user terminals delivering multimedia information to multiple user terminals concurrently dynamically and efficiently.

According to one aspect directing a television display from a mobile terminal such as a cellular phone is provided. This may entail receiving video content originated from the mobile terminal through a cellular communications channel recognizing that the video content has a display destination of the television configuring the video content for display on the television and directing the television to display the video content at a predetermined tunable channel upon recognition that the received video content originates from the mobile terminal and has the display destination of the television. In addition the communication between a mobile terminal and a television may be bidirectional.

According to another aspect conversion and routing of content to devices that employ differing communication protocols is provided. This may entail receiving a multimedia content item originated from a source located outside a home location and destined for a destination device located within the home location determining a communications protocol a signal format and an address for the destination device converting the first multimedia content item for reproduction by the destination device according to the determined signal format and routing the converted multimedia content item to the destination device using the determined address and communications protocol. A plurality of user terminals may be served concurrently according to one embodiment of the present invention.

According to another aspect bidirectional conversion and routing of content to differing devices is provided. This may entail receiving a first multimedia content item originated from a first device located outside a home location and destined for a second device located within the home location converting the first multimedia content item for reproduction by the second device and routing the first converted multimedia content item to the second device receiving a second multimedia content item originated from a third device located within the home location and destined for a fourth device located outside the home location and converting the second multimedia content item for reproduction by the fourth device and routing the second converted multimedia content item to the fourth device. The third device can also be the second device and the fourth device can also be the first device.

According to another aspect remotely receiving and accommodating completion of multimedia content requests from a plurality of content sources is provided. This may entail receiving a request to order access to a first multimedia content item and a second multimedia content item wherein the request is received through a cellular communication with a user initiating the request using a mobile terminal identifying a first source corresponding to the first multimedia content item and a second source corresponding to the second multimedia content item wherein the first source and the second source implement different communications protocols separately initiating communications with the first source and the second source using the different communications protocols to fulfill the request to order access to the first multimedia content item and the second multimedia content item receiving the first multimedia content item and the second multimedia content item from the first source and the second source and converting the first multimedia content item and the second multimedia content item for reproduction by a destination device and routing the converted multimedia content items to the destination device.

According to another aspect a method for optimizing the delivery of content that is commonly requested by a plurality of users in a particular location is provided. This may entail monitoring network content requested by users corresponding to the particular location receiving a request for a particular content item from a given user in the particular location wherein the particular content item is ordinarily served from a location outside the particular location determining that the particular content item is locally applicable where the particular content item is also requested by and converted for other users in the particular location and concurrently serving the particular content item to the given user and the other users using a server that is logically proximate to users in the particular location in lieu of separately serving the particular content item to the given user and the other users from locations outside the particular location.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer Systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

According to one aspect of the present invention Internet content is requested and accessed by cellular users in correlation with their determined location. Provision of Internet content is customized according to location and provided in a series of locally customized networks. A given local network includes servers configured to include content believed appropriate for its location. The delivery of content is made from a particular local network configured as such to a user s cellular phone through the local base station.

For example information about Hollywood may be accessed through cellular network base station s in the Hollywood area when the cellular user is detected as being proximate to the Hollywood area. These base stations deliver Internet content that is relevant to the area such as web sites about film and movie stars. This Internet content is stored in servers that the base stations covering the area can access conveniently to provide faster and more efficient transmission to the cellular users in the service area.

By optimizing the location of the Internet content for the wireless network users this invention enables an optimum data flow for cellular users to access rich information and data of all kinds from the Internet.

The UE is a cellular phone configured to communicate with base station s of the RAN . Although the UE is preferably a cellular phone it should be understood that a variety of devices may be equipped with same communication functionality. Other examples of the UE include a Personal Digital Assistant PDA Set Top Box Kiosk or any personal computing device configured to include the wireless communication capability.

The RAN and CCN preferably implement conventional elements of a cellular network and are described further as follows. The RAN includes Base Station and Radio Network Controller RNC elements. The Base Station provides resource management and provides an interface that converts the data flow between the UE and RNC. The RNC controls radio resources for the Base Stations to which it is connected and also manages connections to the UE .

The CCN is connected with the EN . The most notable examples of the EN can be grouped into two kinds Circuit Switched CS networks and Packet Switched PS networks. The CS network provides circuit switched connections for circuit switched services such as telephony and ISDN. The PS network provides connections for package data services. The Internet is a significant and notable application of a PS network.

The CCN comprises MSC VLR GMSC HLR SGSN and GGSN elements. The HLR Home Location Register is a database that stores information such as user service profiles. The service profile includes information including allowed services roaming areas forwarding numbers and the like. The HLR stores the UE location to accommodate that routing of calls and other information to the UE .

The MSC VLR Mobile Services Switching Center and Visitor Location Register respectively provide switch operations and a database for the UE in its current location for Circuit Switch CS services. The VLR stores the user s service profile as well as more precise information on the UE s location within the serving system. CS connections go through the GMSC Gateway MSC which is the switch at the point of connection to the external CS network.

The SGSN Serving GPRS General Packet Radio Service Support Node functionality is similar to that of MSC VLR but is typically used for Packet Switch PS service. PS connections go through the GGSN Gateway GPRS Support Node .

The LCN comprises one or more computing devices configured to include memory processing capability and interfaces to provide the functionality described herein. The LCN includes local servers that are configured to provide custom Internet content. The LCN is also configured to include a content access monitoring module which monitors Internet access and determines content applicable to the designated location of the LCN .

The LCN thus performs monitoring and caching related to locally applicable content. With regard to the monitoring functionality the monitoring includes local access which determines which content users in the location are accessing. With regard to the caching functionality the LCN maintains a cache of locally applicable Internet content which includes refreshing to add new content and remove stale content as determined by information received from the monitoring functionality.

One technique for determining whether content is locally applicable is measuring access frequency. If many users in the location are determined to be accessing particular Internet content then that particular Internet content is determined to be locally applicable and is included in the cache during the next update.

In addition to monitoring and caching locally applicable content the LCN is configured to be logically proximate to the base station s of the cellular network at the particular location. In one example logical proximity is carried out by having the LCN physically proximate to the relevant base station s such as in the same geographical area. For example the LCN may be located in a metropolitan area or within an area the covers certain zip code s of a metropolitan area. Logical proximity may alternatively be carried out without requiring physical proximity This for example may be done by providing dedicated resources including a high bandwidth connection between the LCN and the local users. In this example the LCN is configured to deliver locally applicable content more efficiently and rapidly because of the dedicated resources without necessarily requiring physical proximity.

According to another aspect to further increase efficiency the locally applicable content for a given LCN is organized in a layered architecture. A first layer of content is considered to be the content that has the highest local applicability. Additional layers are also provided upon the first layer with succeeding layers progressively covering larger geographical areas i.e. progressively larger numbers of base stations . According to one aspect the layering involves communication with neighboring LCNs covering increasing areas to determine the content that is locally applicable for the additional levels. Thus for example a first layer corresponds to locally applicable content at a first level of granularity e.g. as monitored determined only for the location of the LCN or a small local group of LCNs a second layer corresponds to locally applicable content at a second level of granularity e.g. the logical AND or intersection of content that is frequently accessed across a larger area as determined by the monitoring of access for several LCNs in the defined larger area and so on.

The operation of the system to update the LCN accordingly is described as follows with concurrent reference to and the flow diagram of . The process commences by monitoring Internet content accessed by users for a current location. This is done by monitoring the gateway of the connection between the CCN and PS networks to track the Internet content accessed by the cellular users.

It is noted that the monitored content may have two useful purposes. One is to accommodate the delivery of locally applicable content which may be determined by frequency of access for the given location. Another is to allow the providers of content e.g. merchants or other commercial entities to receive an indication which content is locally applicable. This allows the providers of content to assist or participate further in determining what is locally applicable. For example a merchant provided with an indication of local applicability for certain content may wish to make advertisements coupons or the like available to the users in that domain.

In conjunction with this monitoring determination s of the base station s from which requests for the Internet content are made. This may be performed by checking the VLR and HLR to discover the base stations from which the requests for the Internet content are sent from through. It is noted that base station discovery is just one way that physical location may be determined. Other examples include but are not limited to using GPS zip code telephone number and IP address information to make the determinations.

The next step comprises determining locally applicable content based upon the monitoring and determination s of the base station s . Determination of local applicability is performed by determining access frequency. Alternatively local applicability may be determined by comparing the location of the requesting user base station to a location that is identified in association with the requested content.

Then for the current e.g. first layer the content is loaded in servers that are logically proximate to users for the given location. This may be done by placing the current e.g. first layer server s loaded with the Internet content and or other information data to achieve an optimum and faster data transmission for the cellular users to access the data stored in the servers through the base stations. For example the servers can be placed logically close to the base station through which the cellular users access the data stored in the server s .

The process iterates through as many layers as desired. If it is determined that additional layers are to be updated then steps are performed to load the next e.g. second layer server s with locally applicable content. As described this preferably entails a broader geographical area as the layers increase. The process continues until it is determined that no more layers need to be determined and loaded. The number of layers in a given system will vary according to application and as desired. Layering will typically involve a trade off between maximizing locally available content and the processing resources required to generate and manage layers for progressively broader areas.

The content that is loaded into the base station s may be refreshed on any desired schedule or trigger. For a refresh operation the process described above repeats starting again with the first layer. Content that is stale or otherwise determined to no longer be locally applicable may be removed and of course new content may be added during a refresh cycle.

Additional servers may be added vertically and or horizontally as desired. Vertically means that servers may be added at a given physical location to cover first second third etc. layers. Horizontally refers to adding different sets of servers corresponding to different locations i.e. one set for the first layer a second set for the second layer and so on .

A regular schedule or certain amount of activity can be used to trigger a refresh of the layering. The Internet content in the LCN servers is modified according to the updated findings on the requests for the Internet content sent from the base stations. The Internet content stored in the servers is refreshed at a proper time such as when the servers are not overwhelmed by the users accessing the contents.

The servers are thus loaded with the information for broadcast and or multicast and or any data to be accessed by the cellular users for an optimum transmission to the users in service areas.

The locally applicable content may be sent and delivered upon request to the users. Examples of communication pathways for sending the locally applicable Internet content include the relatively direct pathway through the RAN the pathway through the CCN and then the RAN or others.

A variety of techniques may be used to implement the locally applicable content cached by the LCN in conjunction with requests for Internet content by UE or other device users. In one example the UE request for Internet content prompts an initial check for content in the locally applicable content followed by conventional Internet access should the content prove to be absent from the locally applicable content that is currently cached. Additionally based upon the layered approach described above the first attempt to satisfy the request may be made from the first layer followed by the second layer and so on. The number of layers searched to respond to a particular request may vary as desired. When the number of layers designated to be searched for the current request is exhausted conventional Internet access is used to retrieve content related to the request.

Various cache management and network optimization techniques may be used to manage the locally applicable content. For example fully associative FA direct mapped DM and set associative SA mechanisms are examples of techniques that can be used to determine where a specific content can be stored on the server. Additionally techniques to ensure block validity and to manage cache hits and misses can also be used. Random LRU Least Recently Used and FIFO First In First Out block replacement schemes are among those that can be used to manage the blocks in the cache.

According to another aspect the present invention facilitates a systematical solution for mobile payment or the communication of other information as well as the receipt of information such as alerts . Preferably this aspect of the present invention implements a cellular network a wireless personal area network WPAN and wireless identification technology. Various technologies may be used for these components including but not limited to 3G technology for the cellular network Zigbee Bluetooth or UWB technologies for the WPAN and RFID e.g. NFC for the wireless identification technology.

The wireless HUB WHUB may be located in a public or private location. For a public location the WHUB is preferably housed in a kiosk. The kiosk may be located on a street or in an airport shopping mall or any location that is perceived as convenient and likely to include user traffic. For private locations the WHUB is preferably configured for usage in locations like homes or hotel rooms. In these environments the WHUB may be provided in a smaller device such as part of a Set Top Box STB .

The handset is equipped with a tag that provides a unique identifier that can be wirelessly communicated to the WHUB . A preferred tag is a Near Field Communication NFC tag . NFC provides short range wireless connectivity that uses magnetic field induction to enable communication between the devices. It has a short range of a few centimeters which is believed to be advantageous for applications of this aspect of the present invention. Although NFC is preferred RFID or other substitutes may also be provided. The handset also includes a WPAN transceiver which allows additional communication channel between the handset and the WHUB .

The wireless WHUB is similarly equipped with an NFC reader a WPAN transceiver and a network adaptor . The NFC technology accommodates secure and automatic authentication and data exchange between the NFC tag and NFC reader. According to this aspect of the present invention the NFC is uniquely associated with other information that allows the appropriate action payment alert etc. to take place. For example where the system is being used to accommodate mobile payment the RFID tag is associated with the user s bank account. Further once the device is authenticated through the unique identifier a second secure communication channel with more capabilities is established between the handset and WHUB . This allows the action request and related communications to be reliably transmitted between the two devices.

Accordingly once the NFC based authentication is accomplished a secure wireless connection between the handset and WHUB is established. This communication can implement the WPAN transceiver which has a higher data rate and longer operational range compared to NFC. The secure communication allows the exchange of additional information related to the action such as price and credit card information for a purchase request and corresponding payment scenario to be sent between the handset and the WHUB . The secure communication can be implemented by hardware e.g. a dedicated hardware chipset and software e.g. data encryption algorithm .

The WHUB can also exchange data with other WPAN devices . It may be useful for the WHUB to communicate with these devices to exchange information related to the action. For example the WHUB may collect water usage information from a water meter equipped with the WPAN device functionality. This data may be stored locally by the WHUB or may be transmitted to the appropriate server through the network connection . The data does not necessarily need to be collected by the WHUB concurrently with the user requested action. For example the acquisition and transmission of water usage information may occur periodically and separate from the user s request to make a corresponding payment.

It is also noted that the WHUB may optionally be configured with a wireless communication capability such as that provided in a cellular phone. The WHUB is thus configurable to operate with a system that delivers locally applicable Internet content as described above in connection with .

The communication through the separate secure communication channel e.g. WPAN is then established. The WPAN functionality is used to communicate between the handset and the WHUB so that content related to a requested action may be securely exchanged. In this example the requested action is a purchase request .

It should be noted that the action may or may not immediately follow authentication . For example the cellular phone may be configured to include browsing capability which allows that interface of the cellular phone to be used to review items prior to making a purchase request.

Various purchase types may be made with the purchase request. Examples may include a physical item that is separately shipped to an address a download that is made available immediately possibly to the cellular phone a service etc.

Internet content may be accessed by the cellular phone in association with an action request. One example of providing content to the cellular phone may be the locally applicable Internet content as described above in connection with . Also the cellular phone may access Internet content through channels other than through the WHUB.

It is also noted that a purchase request is just one form of an action that may be carried out. Actions include but are not limited to bill payment populating an account with funds online shopping transactions and others.

The process of authentication may be based upon a Tag ID and password. The Tag ID and password are sent to the authentication server which then returns a notification confirming authentication. Preferably this authentication indicates whether the individual is who he or she claims to be but does not address the access rights of the individual. The authentication server may reside within or outside the WHUB.

As necessary additional information may also be required in association with a requested action. For example account identification information or passwords to access an online account may be required by an external server. In these circumstances the external server sends a request to the WHUB for the information. The WHUB may store such information and respond to such a request. Alternatively the WHUB may further exchange information with the user through the handset in order to obtain the additional information requested by the external server.

In connection with the purchase request a payment request is made between the WHUB and external server through the network connection. The payment request allows the user to complete the transaction related to the purchase request . To accommodate a satisfactory completion of the payment request the server corresponds with a payment gateway and a resolution indicating whether the payment request succeeds or fails follows.

Upon an indication of a successful payment request the WHUB receives a receipt or confirmation number from the external server relating to the requested action and passes that and or related information to the handset confirming completion of the action. This may be a receipt confirmation numbers coupon codes or the like.

According to still another aspect the present invention provides for wireless management of tasks and corresponding alerts. One such task is diaper management which is described in detail as follows.

This aspect of the present invention accommodates task management based upon wireless delivery of alerts to overcome the problem of estimating when the task requires completion. These alert based tasks include but are not limited to diaper management. For example home security monitoring may also be accommodated.

The diaper condition sensing module includes a sensor and a transmitter . The sensor is configured to monitor one or more of the following conditions whose results indicate whether the diaper is wet or not 

3. Chemical properties of urine volatilized air including volatile acid or ammonia pH starch enzymes ketone bodies and or urobilinogen may all be detected and analyzed to determine the presence of urine 

4. Feces the solid waste material the bilirubin or stercobilinogens in the feces the specific food decomposed material including starch fat plant fiber muscle fiber and so on and or

The sensor triggers the transmitter to establish a wireless communication channel between itself and the CRC . A signal is sent by the transmitter to inform the CRC that the diaper is wet. This wireless communication channel preferably uses wireless technologies such as UWB Bluetooth RFID Spread Spectrum or other conventional wireless communication technologies.

Each sensor preferably has a unique ID. Multiple access mechanisms such as TDMA CDMA FDMA or other conventional approaches may also be applied to allow the central receiver to communicate with multiple sensors at the same resource. It is believed that Zigbee Bluetooth may be useful for many applications in light of the competing demands of working range data rate and cost.

After the CRC receives the signal the receiver triggers sound light text and or other indications of the status of the diaper. These indications may be variously displayed broadcasted reflected etc. through speakers telephones pagers beepers computers and so on to inform the caregiver s so that they can remedy the situation.

The diaper condition sensing module may be variously provided. One example connects to the diaper using a probe that measures for desired criteria as described above and as shown in .

Another example provides the diaper condition sensing module within the diaper. In this example the sensor also includes interfaces probes for measuring the desired criteria within the confines of the diaper. The transmitter may use various communication techniques as described above. For an RFID embodiment the function may be provided by causing the circuit loop of the RFID tag to transition from open to close when the diaper condition e.g. wet is detected by the sensor which automatically causes the ID Tag to be sensed by the tag reader of the CRC.

Still further in this example the diaper condition sensing module may be placed within a diaper and reused. Diapers may be configured with pouches or the like to allow the placement of the diaper condition sensing module . In another alternative the diaper condition sensing module is manufactured and sold as an integrated part of each diaper so that caregivers do not have to be concerned about the placement of the module each time a diaper is changed.

In addition to assisting a caregiver with regard to an individual child s diaper a diaper management system may be configured to manage the diapers for groups of children such as a pre school class or a day care facility where many children may potentially wear diapers. An example of such a system is shown in . The CRC is configured to distinguish children in need of new diapers from those that are not and respectively sends messages to appropriate caregivers. To carry out this functionality the CRC is equipped with a database that associates the unique identifier corresponding to each diaper condition sensing module to at least one contact party. Alternative communication pathways phone e mail etc. multiple contacts caregiver caregiver and various other information may be associated to a given diaper condition sensing module in the database.

In addition to providing a status alert about the condition of the diaper the CRC also determines the location of the diaper by using wireless location techniques including but not limited to Angle of Arrival Time of Arrival and Received Signal Strength Indication. This allows the option of also giving the designated caregiver information about the location of the child having the soiled diaper.

In the situation where there are multiple children diapers being monitored the CRC provided alert may be to a PC having a display screen with a map of the room s and the estimated location of the wet diaper. Other CRC provided alerts may merely notify additional caregiver s as to the status of the diaper without the location so that the additional caregiver s may be apprised of the status. The CRC may also poll the DCSM after a given period of time to ensure that the diaper condition has been updated. The CRC may be configured with configuration settings that allow a caregiver to specify when and how they should be updated. For example if one caregiver is a baby sitter watching the child while the parents are out the parent may configure the CRC not to send an alert to them when the diaper is first detected as being wet but to wait until a certain period of time elapses. By contrast the baby sitter alert may be provided immediately. If the certain period of time passes and the diaper remains wet the CRC can then notify the parent about the diaper condition and the parent will realize that the diaper has not been changed.

Local Merchant Server s are also illustrated. As described in connection with the provision of locally applicable Internet content merchants are apprised as to the local applicability of content such as may be determined by frequency of access by users at a particular location corresponding to given base station s . The WHUB in addition to being configured to facilitate secure receipt and performance of an action such as a purchase request and corresponding payment request includes the CRC functionality that allows a response to diaper condition update as provided by the DCSM the diaper being just one example of an item for which updates may be provided .

With the system configured as such the delivery of locally applicable Internet content may be provided in conjunction with the diaper update. Also a local merchant and corresponding server that sells diapers is able to present a coupon or other incentive to the user in conjunction with the determination that a diaper is wet by the DCSM . Moreover in addition to having the capability of reminding the caregiver about this the WHUB may keep a database of household requirements and inventories. For example the WHUB may monitor the number of diapers detected as being used. When the amount of used diapers is close to the amount known to have been purchased previously an additional alert may be presented to the user so that they are aware that they need diapers and they can get the discount if they buy brand x based upon the information provided by the local merchant.

The process for providing such functionality may be as follows. Based upon historical activity relating to access of locally applicable Internet content as well as whatever merchant participation is desired in conjunction with the system the local merchant s information is cached at the relevant LCN Server s . A wet diaper is detected by the DCSM and this information is transmitted to the WHUB . The WHUB managing the diaper inventory for the household determines that the inventory of diapers is low and thus sends a purchase alert through the Base Station requesting information related to the current need. In response to this the LCN Server s determine that the local merchant information is relevant to the current need and thus retrieve and send the cached local merchant information to the WHUB .

In conjunction with the above exchange of information alerts of both the diaper condition and the low diaper inventory may be provided and retained for user review. When the user is ready to make a purchase this may be accommodated via the WHUB . This purchase request may be made by directly interfacing with the WHUB or by using the UE in the fashion described above. The latter option is shown. There the UE sends its Tag ID and purchase request to the WHUB . This of course may follow some browsing activity prior to the purchase request so as to review the possible purchase options. The authentication may be as described above based upon a Tag ID and password. The Tag ID and password are sent to the authentication server which returns a notification confirming authentication.

Once the authorization is obtained payment is sent to the Local Merchant server to complete the transaction and the receipt confirmation and other information may be fed back to the WHUB regarding the same. For physical product like diapers the WHUB will have provided or the Local Merchant may already have the shipping address. Additionally if the Local Merchant is a provider of several items such as a supermarket then items may be accumulated prior to completing a purchase and or making a shipment and or making the products available for pick up by the user. The WHUB is preferably configured with a shopping list that allows organization of periodic cumulative purchases to accommodate this functionality.

Mobile terminal signal conversion accommodates displaying the high rate data flow multimedia information available in a wireless communication environment in an external device which allows true realization and enjoyment of the benefits of the multimedia content.

In one example the multimedia information is provided to a wireless mobile terminal using so called next generation cellular technology i.e. 3G and 4G which can be employed in transmitting multimedia information e.g. rich graphics real time audio video . Because of the relatively small screen size and low quality ear phones for many applications the mobile terminal cannot adequately reproduce the high quality multimedia information that can be communicated using next generation technology with adequate clarity and satisfaction. Mobile terminal signal conversion makes usage of a separate multimedia display terminal including but not limited to a monitor television set projector or LCD display. These displays typically have video and audio reproduction capabilities that are superior to those found on mobile terminals. They also use a power supply that is separate from the mobile terminal.

Still referring to the system illustrated in multimedia information may be provided by any number of service providers and delivered through a network to a base station to ultimately accommodate transmission of the multimedia information among other things to a cellular phone . This system is provided by way of example and it should be understood that any conventional or to be developed technology for delivering voice and or data to mobile terminals may be provided. These wireless communication networks include but are not limited to a cellular communications network or a wireless local area network.

Also illustrated is a typical external display system . This may also be variously provided and may be digital or analog. Examples of digital Systems include HDTV LCD and plasma. Examples of analog Systems include television sets that implement standards such as NTSC PAL SECAM and analog computer monitors SVGA VGA . The external display system does not have the size constraints of the display screen on the cellular phone and is preferably powered independently.

In the illustrated embodiment a mobile terminal signal conversion module MTSCM resides within a separate housing outside the cellular phone .

The functionality of the MTSCM is now further described with concurrent reference to and the flow diagram of .

The MTSCM processes signals to accommodate reproduction by an external device. Specifically a multimedia signal is transmitted to the cellular phone through the wireless communications network as previously described step . The multimedia signal may include a video signal intended for reproduction by the cellular phone using the cellular phone display screen. For ease of description processing of a video signal is described although it should be understood that any multimedia signal or component thereof may be converted in accordance with the present invention.

The cellular phone is connected to the MTSCM . This may be accommodated by a cable connection that interfaces the cellular phone to the MTSCM housing . Through this connection the MTSCM receives the video signal from the cellular phone step . The video signal as received may be configured to accommodate a video display on the screen provided by the cellular phone . The cable connection is an example of a wired connection interfacing the cellular phone to the MTSCM . An alternative wired connection is a seat that directly interfaces the two without a cable. A wireless connection may also be provided although it may currently be less practical to provide than the wired connection because of the potential for high throughput rate requirements. The wireless connection may also implement any conventional known technology including but not limited to a Bluetooth connection.

The MTSCM processes the video signal to provide a converted video signal that has a display format and or signal power level appropriate for an external display terminal that is separate from the cellular phone step . The display format and or signal power level of the external display terminal may be different from that of the cellular phone but there may also be embodiments where the format is the same. Even if the formats are the same conversion of the signals to accommodate display on the external display terminal would still be implemented to adjust the power level for driving the external display and possibly to minimize throughput requirements. This signal conversion is described further with reference to below.

Still referring to following signal conversion the MTSCM provides the converted video signal to the external display terminal to accommodate the corresponding video display on a screen provided by the external display terminal step . This may be accommodated through a connection between the MTSCM housing and the external display terminal as shown.

As used herein mobile terminal refers to typically handheld mobile devices such as cellular phones and personal digital assistants. Although these devices include an execution platform as well as input and display capabilities such devices are distinguished from personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers which are not designed for convenient handheld usage.

Where the MTSCM is provided as software it operates in the context of an execution platform. That is the MTSCM includes instructions that are stored in memory for execution by a processor. Any conventional or to be developed execution platform may be used. The processor memory and related elements such as a power supply are well known and need not be described herein to convey an understanding of the invention. Additionally illustrates one modular breakdown for the components of the MTSCM . It should be understood that the described functionality may alternatively be provided by an MTSCM having fewer greater or differently named modules from those illustrated in the figure.

Additionally although modules as shown to reside in a common location it is noted that the functionality may reside in separate components of a system that includes a mobile terminal an external monitor and optionally an intermediate device housing the MTSCM and interfacing the mobile terminal and external monitor. In other words the overall functionality of the MTSCM may be separated such that portions of the overall functionality are respectively provided by the mobile terminal separate intermediate housing and or the external display device.

The MTSCM may also be provided in the form of a chipset configured for inclusion in a mobile terminal dedicated separate signal conversion device or external display terminal and to provide the described mobile terminal signal conversion functionality.

The MTSCM includes a mobile terminal interface module a signal conversion module and an external device interface module .

The mobile terminal interface module accommodates receiving the multimedia signal from the mobile terminal. A conventional physical interface provides a connection between the MTSCM and the mobile terminal through which the signals flow to the MTSCM . The mobile terminal interface module recognizes the multimedia signal and stores the signal for processing by the remaining modules. Buffering and the like may be implemented to accommodate storage and signal processing as described further below.

The signal conversion module is in communication with the mobile terminal interface module and thus accesses the received multimedia signal. The signal conversion module recognizes the multimedia signal format and processes the multimedia signal to provide a converted signal. The converted signal may have a format and a signal power level that differs from the one used by the mobile terminal as appropriate for one or more types of external devices to which the MTSCM is connected. Various examples of the type of devices to which the MTSCM may be connected are illustrated and described in connection with below.

The external device interface is in communication with the signal conversion module and thus accesses the converted signal. The external device interface also allows connection to the external e.g. display device. The external device interface may provide both the feeding of the converted signal to the external device and driving the external device. Alternatively the external device interface may merely feed the converted signal to the external device with the external device including internal elements for driving its signal reproduction e.g. display facilities.

The MTSCM includes an interface buffer module that is analogous to the previously described mobile terminal interface module. The buffer and interfacing are configured to accommodate signal processing by the remaining elements in support of the requirements and expectations of users of the multimedia signal output e.g. adequate buffering and processing rate to provide real time audio video . The mobile terminal video compression format may of course vary but currently the most likely format is MPEG 1 or MPEG 2. Buffering and throughput rate may also be provided as desired by the designer. Currently it is believed that 200 Mb is an adequate buffer size although buffers of 500 Mb or more may of course be provided. Additionally a throughput rate of approximately 10 Gb s will be adequate for many current Systems but may be increased as demands and technology evolve.

The Video Compress Decoder receives the multimedia signal. The multimedia signal is typically provided in a compressed format to accommodate increased signal transfer rates. An example of a compression scheme is that provided by one of the MPEG standards e.g. MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 . The Video Compress Decoder is configured to include the appropriate compression decompression CODEC module to accommodate decompression of the received multimedia signal. For example where the compression scheme is MPEG the Video Compress Decoder includes an MPEG CODEC to accommodate processing of such multimedia signals.

As an alternative to provision of the Video Compress Decoder in the MTSCM the functionality may be provided within the cellular phone or other mobile terminal. However this may be less practical because of the high bandwidth that would be required between the cellular phone and the MTSCM to deliver the decompressed signal and the corresponding likelihood of a larger buffer requirement for the MTSCM .

The Video Compress Decoder outputs a decompressed digital multimedia signal that is passed to the Digital Analog Video Encoder DAVE and or the Digital Digital Video Encoder DDVE . The DAVE is configured to prepare signals for analog external display terminals and the DDVE is configured to prepare signals for digital external display terminals . The DAVE and DDVE respectively receive the decompressed multimedia signal and convert the signals to the format s and signal power level s required for the terminals to which they interface.

Examples of formats used by analog display terminals include S video RGBHV RGBS and EIA770.3 as illustrated. Similarly the DDVE provides output using standards such as DVI DVI D HDMI and IEEE1394. The signals respectively provided by the DAVE and DDVE are provided to the terminals through conventional interfaces . The DAVE functionality may be embodied as a video card that is configured accordingly. Examples of video cards that may be configured to provide the described functionality include but are not limited to the Diamond Stealth S60 ASUS V9400 X or RADEON 7000.

Ultimately the signals are used to provide a display on the external display as required according to the particular type of display. For example the video data stream may be a digital RGB signal which represents the intensity of the red green and blue light respectively at different position. This signal is converted to analog by a D A converter. This converted analog signal is quantified to the voltage and format required by the standard such as the input of cathode ray tube CRT monitor. This standard video signal will drive a set of electron guns which produce a controlled stream of electrons to display of red green and blue light respectively on a CRT screen. This is but one example and the present invention is not limited to a particular technology e.g. CRT for the external display.

As described in one embodiment the MTSCM may be independently housed separately from both the mobile terminal and external display terminal with respective connections to the other devices to provide a system configuration that includes the three pieces of hardware mobile terminal conversion box external display terminal . This configuration provides the flexibility of allowing any standard mobile terminal and or display to be potentially interface with the MTSCM without imposing constraints on the mobile terminal or external display terminal manufacturers. A possible drawback to this configuration is that additional hardware is introduced into the system.

In lieu of the three component system the MTSCM may be located in either the mobile terminal or the external display. is a schematic diagram illustrates an example of a system in which the MTSCM mobile terminal signal conversion may reside within the mobile terminal . The components and functionality of the service providers network and base station for delivering multimedia signals to the mobile terminal is the same as for the analogous elements of and need not be re described. Similarly the external display terminal may be any of the various types named above.

The MTSCM provides the same functionality described above. However in contrast to residence in a separate housing the MTSCM is a component of the mobile terminal . A potential advantage of this system is that again any standard equipment can serve as an external display terminal without a constraint on the display manufacturer. Additionally only a simple wired or wireless interface is required to connect the external display with the mobile terminal . This means for example that the user will not be required to carry a bulky conversion module in addition to their cellular phone.

A potential drawback to this system is that the execution platform of the mobile terminal may be designed to accommodate only traditional functionality so for some Systems it may be challenging to add the MTSCM functionality to the existing platform. Additionally the MTSCM will consume power that may unduly exhaust the limited power supply offered by the mobile terminal battery. It is useful for this embodiment to provide power to the mobile terminal through the cable connection to the external display terminal but again this may require modification to the mobile terminal as the existing charger interface may be insufficient.

Here the mobile terminal need only be connected directly to the external display terminal . However in lieu of having the MTSCM functionality reside within the mobile terminal it is part of the external display terminal . The power supply and execution platform issues associated with placing the MTSCM in the mobile terminal are resolved with this system and any mobile terminal can potentially be connected to any MTSCM ready external display without requiring modification other than provision of an output interface. A potential drawback of this configuration is that it adds a component to the standard external display terminal and corresponding costs.

The basic architecture for provision of the wireless communications signal and corresponding multimedia signal is as described above for the service providers network base station and mobile terminal . The MTSCM may be separate or reside in the mobile terminal or display terminal . Examples of applications where a larger screen and potentially superior audio may be enjoyed include video conference HDTV games GPS and video on demand. Additionally embodiments of the present invention will accommodate enjoyment of full multimedia capability in locations including vehicles airports hotels and remote resorts. Thus for example the present invention accommodates usage inside a vehicle a plane or any type of transportation enabling the passenger to browse the Internet watch TV play games participate in a video conference or call and work on all sorts of software with full functionality.

According to one aspect of this embodiment a converting server that is variously positioned in network environments provides a routing function and a connecting function and functions bi directionally. Accordingly this aspect provides for the transmission and receipt of content and converts such content in both directions depending upon the connected devices and corresponding protocols used by such devices.

According to another aspect of this embodiment cellular television functionality is provided. Here a television in form and functionality also includes cellular communication features as well as the above described conversion functionalities. Preferably one or more channels corresponding to the cellular application are provided in the cellular television so that the content received in this fashion may be accessed and viewed by a user in a fashion similar to that used for accessing traditional television channels.

According to still another aspect one or more embodiments of the invention provide efficient integration for Internet wireless networks cable DSL satellite and TV communications to enable communications among potentially different user terminals. The user terminals include home and office appliances such as TV computer and wireless terminals such as mobile phone PDA . In a system configured according to this aspect a Management Center MC System receives selects converts compresses decompresses and routs data to the user terminals. Various examples are presented and will be apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan once instructed according to the teachings of this aspect. By way of example signals such as those from a fire alarm or theft sensor are sent through the MC System to a user s cell phone and or 911 Center. Some processing functions may be performed by the MC System in combination with a user terminal and other MC Systems. In another example a user s phone call wireless or wired is routed to a telephone mobile terminal computer and or TV as designated by the user.

The MC System functionality includes receipt conversion and transmission of content in two directions. It also includes facilities for mapping and routing content to various connected devices and data storage for storing content that is served locally or to remote devices.

Receiving converting and transmitting multimedia content may be performed in two directions using the MC System. For example this may include receiving and transmitting signals from cellular networks Internet PSTN other Management Centers as well as receiving and transmitting signals from user terminals including televisions monitors diaper monitoring a video camera fire alarm theft sensor etc.

With regard to conversion the MC System includes a converter module with routines for selecting extracting compressing decompressing adjusting data and converting the data format and or power lever and or data package size format.

The MC System also includes a mapping table and a routing module. The mapping table is described further below. It matches phone numbers cable ports DSL ports IP addresses etc. The routing module is for routing data to destinations through designated channels. The routing module accommodates routing the received data that is inbound from a variety of sources including but not limited to cable broadcast television and Internet. It also accommodates routing to a variety of interfaces found on receiving terminals including but not limited to RS232 USB2.0 and video cable port. The routing module receives the relevant information concerning routing from the results of looking up the same in the mapping table and carries out the routing accordingly.

Finally the MC System includes data storage such as a hard disk. This allows the MC System to store content to assist faster and more efficient data receiving and transmission to user terminals. The MC System may also conveniently retain converted content e.g. compressed coded decrypted decompressed for subsequent additional access. This converted content may be provided internally or transmitted externally from the MC System.

It is also noted that the MC System may include software and or hardware for filtering and treating viruses such as viruses that involve the cellular network and corresponding cellular communications. For example the MC System may periodically or persistently check for virus signatures when content is being transmitted or received by the MC System. Virus screening processes may thus be applied to multimedia content items in conjunction with their conversion and at the same location the domain of the MC System . This may be useful because virus screening may be applied to multimedia content before and or after it is converted. Treatment may include blocking or quarantining viruses that are detected deleting virus data or files and communicating the possible presence of attacks to other MC Systems or external systems.

When a communication is inbound to the MC System it may include a data package that identifies the destination device. This may be in the form of a unique device identifier that is associated with each device managed by the MC System. The mapping table is queried for the presence of the unique identifier. Once this is successfully performed corresponding information regarding the processing of the communication may be automatically gathered from the mapping table.

Additionally or alternatively the MC System and or CHS can obtain formatting addressing and other information by referencing portions of the received data package according to a predefined protocol. For example information within the received data package may indicate the format e.g. TCP package in Internet for transmission and the format e.g. data package defined by WCDMA standard in 3G for receiving as well as the destination address corresponding to the converted data format. The overhead information within the received data package can inform the MC CHS regarding the next transmission protocol and matched format. That is the data package received by the MC CHS includes some defined extra data besides the desired content data. This information informs the MC CHS regarding the inbound data format transmission protocol and also the outbound data format and the transmission protocol corresponding to the data format.

For example if the data package contains the identifier DIit is determined that the communication is intended for the main television in the household. In a simple example all communications to a given device may be required according to the same format and same address. For example a regular video output may be directly connected via cable between a video output from the MC System to the video input of the main television e.g. by coaxial cable component cables HDMI cable . With regard to this example the MC System includes a regular output for making the connection to the television.

There may also be network based connections such as to a personal computer or home LAN router or directly to a television equipped with a network interface card and related functionality. In these instances the address information and corresponding entries in the mapping table would include the network address of the particular device. The MC System is equipped with its own network interface card and corresponding output to engage in these communications. These and other communications such as to a cellular phone via either the use of the cell phone number or a direct local wireless communication may be made again as indicated in the mapping table.

There may also be situations where multiple different processes and corresponding conversion and addressing need to be applied for a given device. For example a television set may be connected to both a network connection and the video output of the MC System. As another example a cellular phone may have alternative communication capabilities as noted. In these circumstances the mapping table may also include multiple different entries designating the address signal format etc.

Thus the information in the mapping table may also be correlated to several processing category codes for a given device. For example processing category code for the television set may indicate that the inbound communication should be addressed converted if applicable and routed to the television through the video output. This might be merely feeding conventional television signals to the television. On the other hand processing category code for the television may indicate that the inbound communication should be addressed converted and routed through the network connection. Still further some special content may require additional or different processing e.g. conversion decryption etc. as compared to other content. Additional processing category codes may allow such content to be processed appropriately. The processing category code may like the device identifier be a number that is included in the data package.

The data package may also be variously provided to the MC System. In one embodiment the data package may be contained in a header area in packet data sent to the MC System by the source. Still further at times the data package may itself contain information used in converting and or addressing the appropriate device. For example the data package itself may contain the network address of the destination device in lieu of looking for the same in the mapping table. As another example all or part of key information for decrypting content may also be provided in the data package. As still another example the data package may contain a flag to track an indication as to whether a virus screening process has completed successfully.

Devices that are intended to work with the MC System may also be equipped with software and or hardware that allows them to insert and deliver the appropriate information in communications with the MC System. For example a cellular phone may be equipped with software that provides the appropriately configured data package in initiating communications with the MC System that are directed to destination devices.

The MC System variously processes data depending upon corresponding devices and purposes for the data. For example the data received from cellular networks are selected and then converted to be displayed on home or office appliances with different types of display screens Similarly some content can be displayed more properly by mobile phone displays.

In addition some data are also compressed and re organized at the MC System so that they have certain data package sizes and formats for matching the requirements of the relevant transmission networks. For example the signals sent from a wet diaper fire alarm and or theft sensor may be transmitted to a user s cell phone or 911 Center. This information may be compressed before transmission over the wireless network which allows increased efficiency when using the wireless communication channel. Additionally security and encryption protocols e.g. SSL and error prevention protocols and coding schemes e.g. Huffman Solomon or Turbo LDPC coding may be applied to ensure that the information that is transmitted remains secure and without error.

By way of example this aspect of the invention may be applied to home appliances. The home appliances e.g. TV set PC Handset Printer PALM camera Headset game controller refrigerator etc. may also function through a centralized HUB system CHS . Such a HUB system is previously described in detail above. The CHS communicates with the MC System and or Internet and or other networks. The CHS can also be built into a cable modem TV set top box or other device. The signals for example from a wet diaper fire alarm or theft sensor can also be sent from the CHS. Finally it is noted that the CHS may perform the functions described for the MC System.

The commonly practiced wireless connection centralized by wireless access point is based on WLAN technology which is IP oriented technology. Since the IP addresses may exhaust over time each consumer electronics item such as headset game controller etc. configured to have an IP address is costly and fails to serve the user s needs well. One or more embodiments of the present invention offer two aspects in this regard. First an intelligent management system centered by traditional connection equipment such as TV set top box cable modem DSL modem or the like unites manages and optimizes the consumer electronics functions. Also provided is a non IP based wireless connection among these consumer electronics devices.

As shown in the CHS communicates with the Internet through ADSL or cable and cellular base stations through wireless connection. The consumer electronics items communicate with the CHS through wireless channels such as Bluetooth UWB NFC or wire line connection. CHS is the center of this wireless communication system.

A handset e.g. cellular phone can receive Internet data through CHS and or MS instead of communicating with a cellular base station. This communication channel is more reliable less costly and offers improved bandwidth compared to conventional connections between base station and the cellular phone.

There may be a corresponding connection between the CHS and the cellular network. This may implement a traditional wireless connection between the CHS and a cellular base station with the communications implementing conventional wireless communications protocols. Another possibility is a leased line or wireless line connecting the CHS to the core cellular network. The CHS preferably includes a WiFi router function as well as the ability to route addresses between IP and cellular telephone number. It also is able to report to the cellular network with regard to the location of a particular user so that information designated for that particular user may be directed to the CHS accordingly e.g. calls content ordered by particular user via cellular phone etc. . It also may include any necessary conversion functions. In addition to reporting the location of a user to the cellular network the MC System or CHS may also report roaming information to other MC Systems or CHS . This allows subsequent communications between users without involving the cellular network. That is a first user may be located in the covered area for a first MC System and a second user may be located in the covered area of a second MC System. While this circumstance remains communications between the first and second users via their mobile terminals may involve the wireless connections from the MC Systems as well as the connection between MC Systems which may for example be an IP connection .

In addition the information sent to the cellular phone can be delivered to a TV for a better display in accordance with another aspect of the present invention. Furthermore the communication between CHS and an oven with sensors and corresponding conditions can be variously triggered such as through the detection of boiling water or the temperature of the food in an oven. A signal to arouse the attention of whomever is cooking the food or boiling water is transmitted to the TV acoustic system cellular phone computer beeper mobile terminal PDA etc.

Another example of the application of the invention is that a wireless transceiver can be installed in a child s diaper. When the diaper is wet the communication between diaper and CHS is triggered. Corresponding signals will be delivered to TV cellular day care center etc.

Internet content is one source of data transmitted to users terminals through the MC System. One aspect of this invention is the structured location of the Content Server and or MC Systems as shown in the .

As described in further detail above a cache of locally applicable content caches particular Internet content that is determined to be locally applicable based upon the monitoring of the Internet content accessed by users from the particular location. This content may be content that has also been converted as described herein. The particular Internet content is preferably cached at a local content storage placed within local Management Center. Alternatively the particular Internet content is cached at Content Server which is placed logically proximate to two or more Management Centers sharing the Internet content. Logical proximity may be variously carried out such as through physical proximity or by provision of dedicated bandwidth and resources. Requests for Internet content for the particular location may thus be served from the cache to optimize delivery where the cache contains the requested content.

In addition the caching of locally applicable Internet content may be maintained on a layered basis such that a first layer of local applicability corresponds to Internet content requested by users in a first geographical area in which the particular location resides and at least one succeeding layer of local applicability corresponds to Internet content requested by users in at least one succeeding geographical area that encompasses and is larger than the first geographical area.

Merchants or other commercial entities may also provide some form of access to information related to the locally applicable Internet content with commercial incentives such as coupons or advertisements being delivered to users based upon that information.

The logical proximity based on physical proximity or provision of dedicated bandwidth and resources also applied to the locations of MC Systems and or Content Servers. MC Systems and or Content Servers are located according to the local service requirements dedicated bandwidth and other resources geographical and demographical situations cost etc. The MC Systems can also be structured and placed in layers as described in the layered structure of Content Servers. The comparative positioning of MC Systems and Content Servers are determined based on service requirements resources costs and monetary incentives Importantly the Management Centers and Internet Content Servers are structured for efficient transmission of data and to avoid bottleneck problems.

It is noted that this aspect is not limited to Internet content. The MC Systems and Content Servers may store content from various resources.

A variety of data transmission protocols may be used to transmit multimedia content to the MC System including from cellular networks e.g. 3G Internet Service Providers and from other MC Systems.

A set of transmitter s and or receiver s for connection with external resources is equipped at the MC System. The connection channels for data transmission may include wired line connections e.g. DSL Fiber Cable DSL least line etc. between the MC System and outside networks e.g. Cellular Network Internet Service Provider networks . Additionally wireless connections e.g. WiMax Satellite communications e.g. VSAT system traditional communications with cellular base stations point to point or point to multipoint wireless connections may provide the connection between the MC System and outside networks. MC Systems may also connect communicate route and relay content among and between each other. The connections among MC Systems are structured by efficient data transmission service requirement cost bandwidth and other resources availability and the relationships with Internet Content Servers Cellular Networks local Service Providers and other MC Systems.

A variety of communications may also be applied for the communication channels between the MC System and the various local user terminals. At the user terminal side the users use TV computer DSL modem Cable modem WLAN access point mobile terminals and various sensors that communicate with the MC System.

A set of transmitter s and or receiver s are equipped for the data transmission between the MC System and user terminals. Communication channels between the MC System and user terminals include the following 1 direct connection using the available transmission port standard such as USB RS232 TV cable Ethernet Telephone line etc. 2 Wireless Personal Area Network such as UWB Bluetooth WLAN etc. 3 Long range wireless connections such as WiMax Satellite e.g. VSAT TV broadcast etc. or 4 Wire line connection such as DSL Cable Ethernet etc.

The data transmission between an MC System and user terminals can be one way or two way. One way data transmission includes data sent from the MC System to the user terminals and the data sent to the MC System from user terminals. For example the MC System sends data to user terminals e.g. advertisement broadcast to TVs computers mobile terminals etc. . Similarly the user terminals send data to the MC System e.g. signals sent from a fire alarm to an MC System. . The data transmitted between an MC System and a user terminal is preferably bidirectional. In this circumstance transmitter and receiver at both sides are equipped.

The operations on data processing and transmission at an MC System can be shared with a plurality of user terminals and or other MC Systems. In some circumstances some functions of the MC System described above can be done by a user terminal so the MC System is omitted. One aspect of the invention is a TV or other display that is equipped to receive RF signals sent from cellular base stations. The cellular television demodulates and or compresses decompresses data and or converts the signals to the appropriate format before displaying the image video. The conversion and transmission provided with the television can also be two way. The cellular television with a video camera microphone can also record and extract the multimedia information which can be transmitted to other users terminals through cellular network or Internet. The cellular television is equipped to extract and or convert and or compress and modulate the multimedia information before sending it to the cellular base station. The cellular television also preferably has a separate channel for displaying multimedia information from the cellular network or other networks beyond traditional TV programs. Users may also use the TV remote controller to dial telephone numbers like a telephone dial panel.

In an alternative embodiment a set top box is configured to receive the wireless signal and to output signals appropriately formatted for the television. In still another embodiment the MC System is equipped to receive a wireless signal and to perform the conversion and routing to the television set. In either of these circumstances the set top box or MC System is similarly equipped to provide the noted cellular communications capability and MTSCM functionality. It is also noted that there may be embodiments where the functionality is divided between the set top box television set MC System and or CHS in various ways involving at least two and sometimes all three devices.

The process initiates upon receipt of video content through a cellular communications channel. This communication may be received for example at the initiation of a cellular phone user who wishes to send the content. The connection may for example be made using a regular cellular telephone call to a designated number corresponding to the television. At this time the content as sent from the remote cellular phone to the television will be formatted as required by the cellular network. The MTSCM functionality converts such signals from the cellular network and related format to the format used by the television e.g. SD or HD standards .

Where it is recognized that video content has the television as a display destination the video content is then configured for display according to the requirements of the television for example as described regarding the MTSCM functionality. Recognition that the content is destined for the television set may be presumed where a dedicated number or known routing of signals to the television set at a given interface is provided.

Finally the television is directed to display the converted content on a predetermined channel. This predetermined channel may for example be a tunable channel that is otherwise unused for other forms of content. To view video content in this fashion the user merely uses a channel button or the like to navigate to the appropriate channel and then the converted content is shown on the display screen of the television. In the alternative where the set top box is used to provide the noted functionality the tuning may be provided through a remote that controls the set top box. A given channel on the set top box may correspond to the content received in this fashion. The output of the set top box provides the converted content through a conventional connection to the television such as an HDMI component cable S video or other connection.

Turning now to several other aspects of the present invention illustrate examples wherein the MC System converts and routes content to particular devices.

According to a first aspect the MC System is configured to convert and route multimedia content to a variety of different e.g. household devices which require addressing and may include not only different communications protocols but also different formats. is a flow diagram illustrating a process of conversion and routing multimedia content to different terminals.

The process initiates upon receipt of multimedia content from a source outside the home location to be directed to a destination device within the home location. The destination device may comprise different devices having different formats and receiving signals through different communications protocols.

The MC System then determines the communications protocol signal format and address for the destination device. This for example may be performed either by referring to the data package information mapping table information or a combination thereof as described above.

The inbound multimedia content is then converted for reproduction by the destination device according to the determined signal format for that device. Finally the converted multimedia content is routed to the destination device using the determined address and communications protocol corresponding to the destination device.

According to another aspect the MC System offers bidirectional conversion wherein content not only may be inbound to various different devices but may also be communicated to various remote devices. This function may similarly be carried out using the various connections available with the MC System as well as the corresponding information in the mapping table and data packages.

The process entails receiving a first multimedia content item originated from a first device located outside the home location and destined for a second device within the home location. The first multimedia content item is then converted for reproduction and routed to the second device. Similarly the second multimedia content item is received from the third device located within the home location and destined for a fourth device located outside the home. The second multimedia content item is converted for reproduction by the fourth device and the converted multimedia content item is routed to the fourth device.

According to still another aspect of the present invention the MC System allows a user to remotely make orders for content using a cellular phone wherein the content may come from a variety of different sources. illustrates a process for receiving and accommodating completion of multimedia content requests corresponding to different sources.

The process initiates by receiving from the cellular phone user requests access to first and second multimedia content items. Examples of requests may include individual content purchases selection of content previously purchases selection of content that does not need to be purchased and others. For example the cellular phone may be used to directly contact the MC System. Another way this may be done is by using a cellular phone to communicate with the MC System with intervening communication occurring with the cellular base station. That is with reference to the cellular phone may be used to communicate with the cellular base station and the cellular base station may then communicate with the MC System using the various communication channel options as shown. The first and second multimedia content items may of course be ordered on separate occasions and may correspond to content available from completely different sources.

The MC System identifies a first source corresponding to a first multimedia content item as well as a second source corresponding to a second multimedia content item. These sources may use any number of different communications protocols to carry out the delivery of content to the home.

The MC System then separately initiates communications with the first and second sources using the different communications protocols to fulfill the requests to order access to the first and second multimedia content items. The first and second multimedia content items are then received by the MC System and converted for reproduction by the destination device and routed accordingly .

Various devices and various content sources may be applicable according to this embodiment. For example an initial step may involve the user communicating with the MC CHS using his cellular phone e.g. directly or through an intervening cellular base station . The user may then make various types of requests to the MC CHS. For example the MC CHS may be instructed to make a call to another user s cellular phone. Alternatively the user may instruct the MC CHS to obtain information corresponding to a request such as current news stories based upon a previously or currently submitted keyword e.g. news regarding President s veto of a law . Corresponding format and addressing information is then provided to the MC CHS. For example the MC CHS may be instructed that the IP address of the user s PC is the destination address for the requested cellular phone call and the cable port address of the user s television may be the destination address for the requested news. Finally the MC CHS engages in appropriate conversion and routing to deliver the requested content accordingly. For example the MC may communicate with the cellular network to find the other user to whom the cellular phone call is desired and convert the received data package defined as the cellular network to a TCP package providing the user s PC IP address as the destination address. Network protocols may then be used to transmit the converted data to the user s PC e.g. over the Internet TCP IP or through a direct network connection . With regard to the provision of the news corresponding to the search query the MC CHS may use the MC content layer structure to find the best source and route for the requested content. For example it may seek the news at a local Internet content server which may be the MC System itself as the MC System is configured to store content that may be variously served as described herein . The MC System converts the corresponding content to a television format and transmits it to the television such as through a direct wired connection or a wireless connection e.g. via UWB between the TV and CHS .

According to still another aspect of the present invention a method for optimizing the delivery of content that is commonly requested by a plurality of users in a particular location is provided. This entails monitoring network content requested by users corresponding to the particular location receiving a request for a particular content item from a given user in the particular location wherein the particular content item is ordinarily served from a location outside the particular location determining that the particular content item is also requested by other users in the particular location and concurrently serving the particular content item to the given user and the other users using a server that is logically proximate to users in the particular location in lieu of separately serving the particular content item to the given user and the other users from locations outside the particular location. In one embodiment the layered approach previously described is used to make determinations as to whether content is locally applicable. At that location requested content may be monitored and determinations as to whether the content is commonly requested within the particular locality may be made.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide multimedia communications between different terminals. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

