---

title: Institutional provided data share platform
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to a system, method, or computer program product for an institution provided data share platform. The institution provided data share platform allows customers and commercial partners to access data the institution may have. Specific platform data access may be limited and/or monitored by the institution to ensure customer safety and privacy compliance. Allowing access to the institution data provides a customer the means to create customized applications utilizing the data in combination with data provided by the customer. In return for access to the platform, the institution may recover assessments based on the application the customer creates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08548930&OS=08548930&RS=08548930
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08548930
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This non provisional present application is divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 097 828 filed on Apr. 29 2011 entitled Institutional Provided Data Share Platform which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 030 597 filed on Feb. 18 2011 entitled Customizable Financial Institution Application Interface. Each of which assigned to the assignee of the present application and are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Downloadable applications i.e. apps for electronic devices such as smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptop computers and other hand held electronic devices have become popular amongst owners of these devices for providing a range of useful and entertaining tools. There are tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of downloadable applications available to customers. Studies have shown that nearly half a person s time on a smart phone is used on non talking activities such as texting and using applications. The applications available allow a customer to customize his electronic device with the applications that the customer finds most relevant to his needs. Some applications available to the customer include but are not limited to applications that the customer can use to check the news check sports scores make grocery lists track a diet get the weather check stocks play games or the like. The customer may download an application onto an electronic device and utilize the features of the application instantly. In view of these demands for such applications there s always a need for new types of applications.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by providing apparatuses e.g. a system computer program product and or other devices and methods for a financial institution provided data share platform that allows customers and commercial partners to access financial institution data and utilize that data in applications.

In some embodiments the data share platform provides for customer access to data the institution has regarding customers merchants transactions or the like. A customer may request to access the data share platform through an application programming interface API . The customer may be an individual a commercial partner or other entity wishing to develop or create an application using data on the data share platform in the application. Once access to the data share platform is requested the platform may provide data to the requesting customer.

The data share platform provides several functions including but not limited to receiving requests for access to the platform providing access to the platform providing security functions providing monitoring functions providing assessment analysis functions and providing for a data retrieval function. Requests may be received at the data share platform from a customer wishing to utilize the data on the platform in an application. The specific data and the amount of data provided to the requesting customer may be limited by security functions of the platform. The security functions may allow a customer access to a limited amount of data from the platform or the security functions may allow customer access to a wide range of data. The platform may also provide for a monitoring function. The monitoring function may allow the institution to monitor the platform to regulate the requests use of data the amount of data frequency of access or the like of the platform. The platform may also provide for an assessment analysis function that determines assessments if any payable by the customer for accessing the platform or using the data on the platform. Another function of the platform is to retrieve data from the requesting customer this data may in turn be compiled within the platform data for use by other customers.

Once the request has been made and the data on the platform has been accessed the customer may develop an application. The application developed by the customer may have the data obtained by the customer from the data share platform in combination with the customer s own data within the application. The application may be created by software and coding that the customer implements whether the software and or coding is known to the institution or not. The application may also be created by other entities with the capabilities of creating applications. The applications may also be created by using the institution s own application building implements.

Embodiments of the invention relate to systems methods and computer program products for an institution provided data share platform comprising populating the data share platform with data that is accessible through the platform receiving a request from a requestor who desires access to the data on the data share platform wherein the request includes authentication information authenticating the requestor to determine if the requestor has access to the data on the data share platform and providing a response to the request wherein the response to the request comprises data available through the data share platform the data being provided to the requestor based at least in part on queries made by the requestor to the data share platform. In some embodiments receiving a request and providing a response to the request is done through an application programming interface. In some embodiments the institution is a financial institution and the data provided by the data share platform is financial data.

In some embodiments the requestor is a customer of the institution providing the data share platform. In some embodiments the requestor is a commercial partner of the institution providing the data share platform. The requestor may provide data in such instances the provided data may comprise data that the institution is not able to acquire independent of the requestor.

In some embodiments the data share platform comprises data provided by the institution. The data share platform further comprises data provided by requestor which the requestor implements on the data share platform.

In some embodiments authenticating the requestor for access to the data share platform is based at least in part on institutional security. Authenticating the requestor for access to the data share platform is further is based in part on the requestor providing identification data to the data share platform.

In some embodiments monitoring the activity of the data share platform comprises monitoring the number of requests to access the data share platform. Monitoring the activity of the data share platform further comprises monitoring use of the data wherein the data comprises code recognition readable by the data share platform. Further determining a payment amount may be based at least in part on the monitoring interaction between the data share platform and the requestor. The monitoring may further comprise providing institutional security for the data share platform based at least in part on the monitoring interaction between the data share platform and the requestor.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to elements throughout. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Although some embodiments of the invention herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments of the invention may involve other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with the financial institution to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution.

This disclosure is written in terms of a financial institution provided data share platform. It is understood that the invention is meant to provide some form of data share for use by a customer developing an application. The provider of the data share platform should not be limited to a financial institution but instead include any institution that may be in a position to provide data to implement with respect to an application. The customer should not be limited to an individual but instead include any person commercial partner user requestor or institution wishing to create an application utilizing the data on the data share platform.

Throughout the disclosure specific customer action is described. Specific customer action may be customer requests customer inputs such as on an interface or other manually provided data the customer may provide to the data share platform. It is understood that the invention is meant to provide a form of data share for use by a customer developing an application. In this way the customer action described in further detail below may be automated.

As illustrated in the platform server is operatively coupled via a network to the institution data systems commercial partner systems and the customer systems . In this way the platform server can send and receive information to and from the institution data system the commercial partner systems and the customer system to facilitate data share for building applications. illustrates only one example of an embodiment of a data share system and environment and it will be appreciated that in other embodiments one or more of the systems devices or servers may be combined into a single system device or server or be made up of multiple systems devices or servers.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination of wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments the customer is an individual that has an account associated with the institution providing the data share platform. An account may be any form of connection between the customer and the data share platform provider this connection may include but is not limited to the customer providing data to the provider the customer being a prior customer of the provider the customer having prior negotiations with the provider or the like. For example the customer may have financial accounts with a financial institution that is providing the data share platform and the customer wishes to develop an application the application having data the financial institution has on the data share platform included within the application. In this example the accounts the customer may have in association with the financial institution may include savings accounts checking accounts credit card accounts investment accounts retirement accounts mortgage accounts or the like. These accounts include accounts with the customer s primary financial institution as well as accounts that the customer has with other secondary financial institutions.

In some embodiments the customer is a commercial partner that has an account associated with the institution providing the data share platform. For example the commercial partner may have financial accounts with a financial institution and the commercial partner may desire to create an application the application having data from the financial institution data share platform. In this example the accounts the commercial partner may have in association with the financial institution may include customer accounts lease agreements business accounts brokerage accounts expense accounts or the like. These accounts include accounts with the commercial partner customer s primary financial institution as well as accounts with other financial institutions. In some embodiments a commercial partner may wish to mine data or visualize the data on the data share platform. For example a commercial partner may wish to create targeted customer specific behavioral advertising and or contextual location based offers based on the data on the data share platform. In this way the commercial partner may mine the data on the data share platform to determine proper advertising techniques.

As illustrated in the platform server generally comprises a communication device a processing device a memory device and an API . The platform server may further include an application server. The application server explained in more detail below with respect to provides the customer application builder software to build an application the application having data from the data share platform. As used herein a processing device generally refers to a device or combination of devices having circuitry used for implementing the communication and or logic functions of a particular system. For example a processing device may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits and or combinations of the foregoing. Control and signal processing functions of the system are allocated between these processing devices according to their respective capabilities. The processing device may include functionality to operate one or more software programs based on computer readable instructions thereof which may be stored in a memory device.

The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the institution data system the customer system and commercial partner systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

The API provides the ability to transmit and or receive data or other messages. In some embodiments APIs may be provided in the systems or servers of the data share system such as but not limited to the customer system the commercial partner system the institution data system the platform server and or the like. In some embodiments such as described in an API communicates with the systems of the data share system . In this way the software of each system may be implemented to communicate to transmit and or receive data or messages. In one example the API may be executed by the processing device such that the API may interface with any resident programs such as the platform module . In another example the processing device may instruct the communication device to interact with an API of a specific system of the data share system .

As illustrated in the platform server comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes computer readable instructions for a platform module . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the platform server but not limited to the data created and or used by the platform module .

In the embodiment illustrated in and described throughout much of this specification the platform module allows for access security monitoring assessment analysis and a receive function for the platform server . In some embodiments the platform module allows a customer to access the platform server to retrieve data for use on an application. The platform module allows for the customer to communicate via the customer system to request and receive data from the platform module . The request may be received directly from a customer system through the use of an API or the customer may request the data via an interface such as described in FIGS. and .

The data may be financial data institution specific data or other data acquired by the institution. Financial data may include but is not limited to account information payment history finances debt data uploaded from a social networking site or the like. For example a customer in this case a financial analyst commercial partner may wish to create an application specifically directed to selected clients based on the clients financial data such as the clients net worth or if the clients have above a specific amount of funds in an account. In this way the financial analyst may provide an application specific to the client needs. Institution specific data may include but is not limited to inventory data profit data sales data margin data social networking data uploaded data or the like. For example a commercial partner such as a retail store or wholesaler may provide an application to selected customers of the commercial partner that indicates to the customer the inventory available. The application could be directed to customers that frequent the commercial partner social networking sites or the like.

In some embodiments the data is stored in the memory device of the institution data system . In this case the data may be received at the platform server through communications with the institution data system and specifically the institution data module . In some embodiments the data is stored in the memory device of the platform server . In some embodiments the data stored in the memory device of the institution data system may be received at the platform server through communications with other servers. For example the platform server may receive data from social networking sites that upload their data onto the data share platform. Commercial partners or other business may also provide data to the platform server . For example search companies or telephone companies specifically cellular telephone companies may also provide data for the data share platform.

In some embodiments other data acquired by the institution may include customer commercial partner search company and or social networking uploading or the like. For example the customer may wish to upload data to the data share platform. The customer may provide data to the data share platform through manual input such as by an interface through uploading from a social networking site or the like. In this way the customer may provide data to the data share platform.

Prior to allowing customer access to the data share platform a security function is implemented. The security function provides the data share system with protection from security breaches protection of restricted data being exposed protection of the amount of data exposed or the like. For example a customer may request data from the data share platform. The security function may determine the data that the customer is allowed access to. This data will be transmitted to the customer . The remaining data on the data share platform may be protected from the customer especially if the security functions determine that the customer is not allowed access to restricted data. The customer may request restricted data. Restricted data may be data that relates to a specific customer such as that customer s bank accounts personal information or the like. Restricted data may be exposed to customers who request it based on security functions. For example a customer may provide his own restricted data to the data share platform and in return the platform may provide data regarding finances of peers similarly situated to the customer to create a financial planning application or the like. The security function may be implemented by the platform module to prevent customer access to restricted data to which he is not privy. The security function may be also be implemented by the institution data module which may communicate via a communication device through a network to the platform server to indicate to the platform module customer access to the data share platform.

Once the customer has requested the data and the security functions have determined that the customer is allowed access to the data the data is then provided to the customer . In some embodiments the data is stored at the platform server . In this case the data may be received by the customer from the platform module through a network at a customer system . In some embodiments the data is stored at the institution data system . In this case the data may be received by the customer from the institution data module through a network at the customer system . The data may be received and implemented at the customer system by an API at the platform server or an API at the customer system . The data may also be received at the customer system via an interface such as described in further detail with respect to .

In some embodiments the platform module may further allow for monitoring of the use of the platform and the data obtained there from. The platform module may monitor the use of the data the access requests for data the restricted data and the data once it is utilized in an application. The platform module may communicate with the institution data module to monitor data activity within the institution such as but not limited to the data being viewed by a customer restricted data available or the data being provided to the platform. Monitoring may provide the data share platform with an added security function an ability to analyze the platform and an ability to base assessments off of use.

Monitoring of restricted data may provide an added security function to ensure no misuse or misappropriation of that data. For example restricted data may be requested by a commercial partner to create an application designed to create different pricing groups to customers . Therefore the commercial partner may be using the restricted data to provide pricing to customers depending on the customers spending and the like. However if the commercial partner uses the data for other means the monitoring function may determine that the use of the restricted data is not appropriate and provide a security feature to limit that commercial partner s access to restricted data in the future.

The ability to monitor the platform allows for statistical data to be gathered from the data on the platform. In this way data may be compiled and averaged to obtain average data for use by a customer or the platform. For example a customer may wish to develop an application to track similarly situated peers and their savings for retirement. The customer may select to view average data on the data share application and add the average data to his application in order to track his retirement as compared to his similarly situated peers. The average data may be a compilation of data from customers of similar age sex and salary to determine an average amount of money saved in a retirement account. In this way the customer may compare his retirement savings to like situated peers. In another example statistical analysis may be run on the data. In one embodiment the statistical analysis may include analysis such as Zip 4. Zip 4 may provide location indications of the customer based on a nine digit code that may be provided in some data on the data share platform. This data may include address information or the like. In this way the monitoring function may be able to pinpoint the customer s location within a city block and may be able to provide location based services to customers .

Monitoring of the platform data further allows an assessment analysis function. The assessment analysis function may determine assessment if any a customer owes for accessing the platform or using the data on the platform. In this way assessment may be based on the number of accesses to the platform the amount of data requested from the platform a flat assessment a subscription assessment and or a royalty based on use of the data on the platform. For example a customer may only wish to access the platform one time in this case the amount would be assessed for that one access. If a customer wished to access the platform a number of times each time the customer accessed the platform an amount would be assessed. An amount may be assessed based on the amount of data the customer requests from the platform. This amount may also be dependent on the type of data requested. For example if a customer requests several types of restricted data the amount may be higher than the amount for a customer requesting non restricted data. An amount may also be assessed based on the use of the data on the platform which may be implemented by means codes embedded in the data. In this way the data share system may monitor financial metrics such as sales of the application that have data share platform data on the application and assess a royalty based on the financial metrics of the application. For example a customer may develop an application and some of the data on the developed application may be data from the data share platform. The customer may then sell his application in an application marketplace. The coded data may monitor each sale and provide a royalty to the platform based on the sales of the application.

In some embodiments the platform module may allow for the receiving of data from the customer . The customer may provide the platform with restricted data of his own in order to gain access of other customers restricted data. For example a commercial customer may provide current inventory data to the platform so that they may build an application tailored to specific customers with specific needs. The specific needs may be based on restricted data that is available in a secure manner on the platform. The platform module may receive data from the customer or from the customer system through a network . Once the platform module receives the data the platform module may store the data in the memory device and or provide the data to the institution data system .

As illustrated in the institution data system is generally comprised of a communication device a processing device and a memory device . As described in further detail below with respect to the institution data system may include an institution account systems allowing a customer to utilize the institution s application builder software to build an application. The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the platform server the customer system and the commercial partner systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As illustrated in the institution data system comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes computer readable instructions for an institution data module . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the data share platform including but not limited to customer data received data relating to the institution and the data created and or used by the institution data .

In the embodiment illustrated in the institution data module allows for data to be received for the data share platform for data to be monitored on the data share platform and for security features for the data share platform. The institution data module receives data that may be implemented on the platform. The data may be received from customers vendors commercial partner systems the institution itself or the like and organize that data on the data share platform. In one embodiment the institution data module may receive data from a customer . For example a customer may wish to use restricted data to develop an application in exchange for restricted data the customer may provide the data share platform his own restricted data. In this way the data share platform may collect other restricted data and build the amount of data on the data share platform. In another embodiment a vendor or commercial partner may provide the data share platform with data. For example vendor may wish to create an application that tracks its own inventory and several of its closest competitors. The vendor may provide the data share platform data regarding its inventory in order to develop the application. In yet another embodiment the institution may provide data to the data share platform. For example the institution data module may receive data from the institution itself when a customer of the institution say a financial institution opens a savings account at that financial institution. When the customer opens the savings account the data from that savings account may be provided to the platform. The data may include the customer s address telephone career emergency contact and data about the amount of money in the account.

The platform module may receive data from the customer vendors commercial partner systems the institution itself or the like through systems such as but not limited to the customer system or the commercial partner systems via a network . Once the platform module receives the data the platform module may store the data in the memory device and or provide the data to the institution data system .

The institution data module may also monitor data. The institution data module may monitor the data received at the institution data system and the data currently on the institution data system . In this way the data received by the institution such as data from customers vendors commercial partner systems the institution itself or the like may be monitored to provide restrictions to access the data or other monitoring functions. The data currently on the institution data system such as the data stored in the memory device may also be monitored. Monitoring may indicate the number of customers requesting specific data the use of the data and the data that is being accessed by customers . The institution data module may communicate with the platform module to provide the platform server monitored data on the institution data system such as but not limited to the data being viewed by a customer restricted data available or the data being provided to the platform.

The monitoring capabilities of the institution data module may further include security including authentication capabilities and statistical functionality. The security and statistical functionality may be provided in a similar manner as described above respect to the platform module . The institution data module may provide security by limiting the customers whom are authorized to access the data. The institution data module may further provide security by the monitoring of restricted data. The monitoring of restricted data may provide an added security function to ensure no misuse or misappropriation of that data. The institution data module may provide statistical functionality monitor the platform allowing for statistical data to be gathered from the data on the data share platform. In this way data may be compiled and averaged to obtain average data for use by a customer or the platform. Because the security and statistical functionality of the institution data module may be provided in a similar manner as the platform module the institution data module authentication and monitoring capability may be compatible with the monitoring preformed by the platform module . This may provide easy cross communications with the data on the institution data system and the platform server .

As illustrated in the customer system is generally comprised of a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The customer system is a computing system that allows a user to access and provide data to the platform server via a network . The customer system may be for example a desktop personal computer a mobile system such as a laptop personal digital assistant PDA cellular phone smart phone or the like. Although only a single customer system is depicted in the customizable application system and environment may contain numerous customer systems . Further the customer system allows the customer to view the customized application created using the data on the data share platform. The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the platform server the institution data system and the commercial partner systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the customer system comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes computer readable instructions for a customer module . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the customer system but not limited to the data created and or used by the customer module . The customer module enables a customer to access the data share platform. Access to the data share platform may be provided in several ways such as through a customer system API through the platform server API . The customer may also request data from the data share platform through the use of interfaces such as those disclosed in FIGS. and .

The commercial partner systems are operatively coupled to the institution data system the platform server and or the customer system through the network . The commercial partner systems have systems with devices the same or similar to the devices described for the customer system the institution data system and the platform server i.e. a communication device a processing device and a memory device . Therefore the commercial partner systems communicates with the institution data system the platform server and or the customer system in the same or similar way as previously described with respect to each system. The commercial partner systems in some embodiments are comprised of systems and devices that allow for commercial partners to access the data share platform and for the institution data system and or the platform server to access the data of the commercial partner system .

As illustrated in block of after a request has been made the security functions of the data share platform function process are implemented. The security function may provide the platform with protection from security breaches protection against data being exposed limitation on the amount of data exposed or the like. The security functions include but are not limited to limiting data accessibility determining data subsets available to the customer and coding available data . Data accessibility provides the platform with an ability to limit the accessibility of restricted data to only those customers who are allowed access to it. Access to restricted data is determined by several factors including but not limited to the restricted data s originator the customer s level of access the originators determination or the like. In this way the originator of the restricted data may disclose the restricted data regarding itself but in return may limit which customers the platform may allow to view the data. For example a retailer may provide sales data to the platform as well as a sales strategy that allows for retailers of competing products to view the data but the retailer may not wish for direct competitors to view the data. The platform security functions may then limit the retailer s restricted data to those who are not the retailer s direct competitors.

Allowing the requesting customer access to data subsets in block provides the security function the ability to disclose restricted data in such a way that does not disclose the originator of the data. For example a customer may request to see data that relates to similarly aged customers data regarding savings for retirement. The platform may be able to provide the customer with this data as an average or median. In this way the exact customers names and their exact retirement plans are not explicitly disclosed. Data subsets allow a customer to view restricted data that the customer may not be privy to otherwise. In this way the customer may be able to build an application using restricted data but not know the exact originator of the restricted data. This in turn protects the originator of the data. The originator of the data may be offered incentives for providing the restricted data to the platform. The originator of the data may opt in to share restricted data and in return receive customer specific offers for products in which they have interest a royalty based on sales of applications using the restricted data an increased savings interest rate or the like.

The platform security function of coding data prior to allowing access to the data provides the platform with a means of tracking the data once it has been accessed by a customer . For example a customer may use coded data from the platform to build his application. In this way the platform may be able to track the data to the customer and to an application store in which the customer sells his application.

Once the security functions have been used in block the customer is allowed access to the data on the platform. Similar to receiving a request in block allowing access to the data may be provided by accessing an API and or the data being sent to a customer system via an interface . In some embodiments access to the platform API may allow a customer to view and or retrieve the data that he is allowed access to. In this way the customer through the customer system may be allowed access to the data share platform API . In other embodiments access to the data on the platform may be provided to the customer through use of an interface . In this way the customer system is provided an interface with data the customer requested from the platform as described in more detail with respect to .

The data accessed by the customer in block may be un restricted data. In some embodiments un restricted data may but is not limited to be publicly available data that does not concern customer safety and or require privacy compliance. For example a commercial party may expose inventory data to the platform to create an application. The application could be directed to customers that frequent the commercial partner social networking sites or the like and provide the customer up to the minute inventory data. In some embodiments restricted data may be but is not limited to customer or commercial partner financial data strategic data or the like. In this case the customer may provide the platform his restricted data and in return expect a benefit. For example the customer may provide or opt in his restricted data in return for other restricted data from the platform so that the customer may be able to create a customized application based on the restricted data such as a customized financial application. In another example the customer may opt in his restricted data thus exposing it to the platform and in return the customer may enhance his creditworthiness with the institution. If the institution is a financial institution this may allow for better interest rates loan modifications or the like. If the institution is a retail store this may allow for discounts on mechanize or special offers. In yet another example the customer may provide the restricted data in order to receive special applications from the institution or the institution s commercial partners. A commercial partner may receive restricted data in the form of customer credit scores. In this way the commercial partner may create an application specifically for customers with higher credit scores thus awarding those customers with credit product pricing. The credit product pricing may be provided for high credit scoring customers or for un restricted data such as a social networking group or business.

In block the platform may provide a monitoring function. The monitoring function may include monitoring the data on the platform monitoring use of the data monitoring access to the data monitoring requests for the data or the like. The data being monitored may include but is not limited to the data being viewed by a customer restricted data available or the data being provided to the platform. At block the access requests are monitored. This may provide the platform the ability to monitor which customers are accessing data and which customers are trying to access data. At block the use of the data is monitored. This may include data that is on the platform or data that is obtained from the platform by a customer . Monitoring the data that remains on the platform may include but is not limited to monitoring who looks at the data how long the customer looks at the data copying of the data or the like. Monitoring of data already in use by a customer or obtained from the platform by the customer may provide an added security function to ensure no misuse or misappropriation of that data. Monitoring of data already in use may be provided by coding of available data in block . Coding of data may provide the platform the ability to monitor where and when the data of the platform is being used. Coding of data also provides a means of tracking use for calculating assessments.

The ability to monitor the data on the platform further allows for statistical data to be gathered from the data on the platform. In this way data may be compiled and averaged to obtain average data for use by a customer or the platform. For example a customer may wish to create an application to track similarly situated peers and their savings for retirement. The customer may select to view average data to add to his application in order to track his retirement as compared to his similarly situated peers.

The ability to monitor the data on the platform may further allow for the institution to provide special offers to customers who either provide data to the platform access the platform often and or use the platform often. In this way the institution may provide institutional incentives for using the platform. For example if the institution is a financial institution it may provide an enhanced creditworthiness to the customers who actively participate in the platform. In another example the institution may provide discounts to the customers for mechanize the institution provides because of the customer s active participation in the platform. In another example statistical analysis may be run on the data. In one embodiment the statistical analysis may include analysis such as Zip 4. Zip 4 may provide location indications of the customer based on a nine digit code that may be provided in some data on the data share platform. This data may include address information or the like. In this way the monitoring function may be able to pinpoint the customer s location within a city block and may be able to provide location based services to customers .

Monitoring of the platform data further allows an assessment analysis function . The assessment analysis function may determine assessments if any a customer owes for accessing the platform the amount of data the customer accessed or the like. In this way assessments may be based on the number of times a customer accesses the platform the amount of data requested from the platform a flat assessment a subscription assessment and or a royalty based on use of the data on the platform . In block an amount may be assessed to a customer depending on the number of times a customer accesses the platform. For example a customer may only wish to access the platform one time in this case the amount would be assessed for that one access. If a customer wished to access the platform a number of times each time the customer accessed the platform an amount would be assessed. In block an amount may be assessed based on the amount of data the customer requests from the platform. This assessment may also be dependent on the type of data requested. For example a customer may request several types of restricted data the amount may be higher than the assessment for a customer requesting non restricted data. In block royalties may be based on the use of the data on the platform. This assessment may be implemented by means of data with codes embedded therein. In this way the platform may monitor the profits of the application made with platform data based off of the data code and assess a royalty based on the sales of the application. For example a customer may create an application by using data on the data share platform. The customer may then sell his application on an application marketplace. The coded data may monitor each sale and provide a royalty to the platform based on the sales of the application. In yet another example amounts may be determined by an assessment analysis function by using subscription assessments for use of the data share platform. In this way a customer may provide a weekly monthly annually assessment for use of the data share platform at any time.

In block the platform may provide a receiving data function . As explained above receiving data may include data from a commercial partner application developers social networking site a search company manually inputted data uploaded data by a customer the data on the customer created applications or the like. The ability for vast quantities of data to be added to the data share platform may provide for several types of data on the platform including search data financial data health data and cell data. For example a customer may provide restricted data in exchange for some incentives. For example the customer may provide or opt in his restricted data in return for other restricted data from the platform enhanced creditworthiness discounts or the like. In this way the platform may be able to receive data from numerous sources to provide an ever expanding platform from which a customer may build an application. In another example a customer may have created an application the application having data from the data share platform within it as well as unique customer data. The unique customer data may be added to the data share platform.

As illustrated in a request interface provides a customer the ability to access the data share platform. At section the customer may input a username and or password. In this way the security functions may provide for customer specific data accessibility and data subsets available to the customer . The customer may then provide personal information in the customer information section . Customer information may include contact information and payment information . Contact information may provide the customer a section to input his address phone number e mail address and additional information. In the payment information section the customer may provide information for a payment means for use of the data share platform. A customer may provide for example a credit card a debit card an account number or the like in the payment information section . In other embodiments a group of customers may wish to access the data share platform. In this way a group of customers may provide restricted data and social networking ties in order to obtain discounts offers or the like.

Once the customer has provided his customer information and added the information by selecting the add button the customer may select the data he wishes to request from the platform in the platform request section . The selections include customer general data customer specific data commercial general data commercial specific data or the customer may provide other requests . In this way the data share platform may have an indication from the customer as to the data the customer is intending to select. Customer general and commercial general data may be general data regarding customers or commercial partners of the institution. Customer general and commercial general data may also include subsets of restricted data. For example restricted data such as customer retirement savings may be combined to provide an average of retirement savings for a specific demographic such as age salary or the like. Customer specific and commercial specific data may be specific data regarding customers or commercial partners of the institution. This data may be restricted or un restricted data. For example customer specific data may be financial information regarding the customer s spending habits. Another example may be a commercial partner s inventory. Yet another example may be the amount of purchases a customer makes at the institution or commercial partner in a given month. Once the customer has selected the platform requests he may search the platform for accessible data using the search button . In some embodiments the search may be an automated search. The automated search is driven by an algorithm software agent API or other means. If the customer is satisfied with his search results and has completed his session on the platform the customer may finish his session by using the finish button .

Once the customer has completed the request interface . The customer may be allowed access to the data on the platform after security functions have been provided for the customer . In block the customer may be provided access to all authorized data. In block the customer may have requested specific data in which the platform may have to provide further authorization to view the data. Once the customer is allowed access to the data his is authorized for the customer may further input restricted data . If the customer provides restricted data the customer may receive access to unauthorized data in block . This unauthorized data may be the benefits descried above that the customer receives for providing restricted data to the platform. As described above the unauthorized data may be an enhanced creditworthiness with the institution a discount for institution products or the like.

In block the customer may create his own application using the data from the platform. In some embodiments the customer may use institution provided application builder tools such as described below with respect to . In some embodiments the customer may provide his own means of building and creating the application using data on the data share platform.

In block the customer may provide the institution providing the data share platform assessments. As described in further detail above assessments may be calculated by accessing the platform the amount of data the customer accessed on the platform or the way the customer uses the data on the platform.

In an example embodiment described in detail below with respect to the financial institution may provide a customer the ability to build a customized application by utilizing financial institution provided building templates. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and therefore the example embodiment set forth below should not be construed as limited to the embodiments of the invention set forth herein. The embodiment set forth below is provided as an example of an application of the invention.

For example in one embodiment of the invention a customer may build an application the application having financial institution data. In another embodiment the customer may build an application using financial institution provided building tools the application having financial institution data. The financial institution provides an application that the customer downloads to the customer s mobile device. The application is configured to interact with a server of the financial institution via the mobile communication network. The application building tools are configured to allow a customer to build an application with numerous options to allow the customer freedom to create his own financial application that utilize the data on the financial institution data share platform other customers in general and or other more general financial data. For instance the customizable application may allow the customer to create his own charts tables or graphs that display customer selected and substantially real time or updated financial metrics that are tracked by the financial institution. In one example the customer may create a chart showing the customer s spending on gas relative to an average customer of the financial institution in the same age range and geographic area as the customer . In other embodiments customers that use the customizable application to create their own unique financial applications can share these applications with others in a forum. Other customers can then use rate and or purchase applications from the forum.

The network may be a global area network GAN such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or any other type of network or combination of networks. The network may provide for wireline wireless or a combination of wireline and wireless communication between devices on the network.

In some embodiments the customer is an individual that has financial accounts with a financial institution and desires to access a financial institution data share platform to build an application. The customer is able to review and or compare financial information via the customized application. The accounts used for the customized application are any accounts available to the individual customer such as but not limited to savings accounts checking accounts credit card accounts investment accounts retirement accounts mortgage accounts or the like. These accounts include accounts with the customer s primary financial institution as well as accounts that the customer has with other secondary financial institutions. In some embodiments of the invention the customer is a merchant that has financial accounts with a financial institution and desires to review and or compare finances via a customizable financial institution application. The accounts used for the customized application are any accounts that are available to the merchant customer such as customer accounts lease agreements business accounts brokerage accounts expense accounts or the like. These accounts include accounts with the customer s primary financial institution as well as accounts with other financial institutions.

As illustrated in the application server generally comprises of a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The application server may be provided from the institution platform server . The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the financial institution account system the customer system and other financial institution systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As illustrated in the application server comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes computer readable instructions for a financial institution interface module . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the customized application including but not limited to the data created and or used by the financial institution interface module .

In the embodiment illustrated in the financial institution interface module allows the customer to determine via a customer system data to be used and displayed in the customized application. In one example the financial institution interface module allows the customer to communicate via the customer system to indicate the customer account data customer financial data customer customized data and other customer data that the customer wishes to be displayed on the customized application from the financial institution data share platform. The data stored within the financial institution interface module provides computer readable instructions to the processing device to allow for development of the customized application. The data share platform stores or accesses information for display in the customized application including but not limited to customer accounts customer financial data other customer financial data customer goals or the like. As used herein customer account information customer financial data other customer financial data and customer goals may be established by the customer via the customer system or established automatically by the financial institution interface module .

In one embodiment as explained in further detail below the customer account information available for use in the customized application may be derived from all accounts available to the customer . In some embodiments of the invention the account information may be derived from a primary financial institution secondary financial institutions or other business that the customer may use to create an account i.e. credit card held by retailers . For example the customer may have several accounts at the customer s primary financial institution and secondary financial institutions that can be accessed from the data share platform automatically by the financial institution interface module including savings accounts retirement accounts checking accounts investment accounts credit card accounts or the like. In other embodiments as explained in further detail below customer financial data available to use in the customized application may include data provided by the customer . For example customer financial data entered by the customer may comprise financial information such as credit cards mortgages loans cash transactions and other financial information that cannot be accessed by the financial institution interface module such as accounts that are not associated with an online account or accounts associated with institutions that do not allow other financial institutions to access. Furthermore in other embodiments of the invention the customer may include accounts within the customized application including accounts associated with spouses dependents friends employees or the like.

In one embodiment as explained in further detail below other customer data is available on the financial institution data share platform for use within the customized application through the financial institution interface module . In one embodiment the other customer data may include data from a representative group of customers of the primary financial institution with a specific income as selected by the customer . In one embodiment the other customer financial data may be from a representative group of customers of the primary financial institution with a specific age group as selected by the customer . For example the customer may wish to compare his retirement account information to other customers of the primary financial institution with a similar savings age and or income level as the customer . In other embodiments of the invention the other customer data may come from secondary financial institutions or other businesses that capture financial information of people. In other embodiments of the invention the other customer data may come from social networks or the like that may be received by the application server through the use of a network .

In one embodiment as explained in further detail below customer goals available for use within the customized application may include financial goals and strategies determined by the customer . Customer goals may include spending goals savings goals payment plans and or the like. For example the customer may wish to limit his spending from a checking account for a specific time period. For that time period the customer may input the goal limit into the customized application therefore allowing the customized application to display the goal limit and how close he is to the limit for that specific account. In other embodiments of the invention the customer may input retirement goals into the customized application thereby allowing the customized application to display the customer s goals as they compare to the goals of other customers within the financial institution.

As illustrated in the financial institution account system is generally comprised of a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the application server the customer system and other financial institution systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As illustrated in the financial institution account system comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes computer readable instructions for a customer account module . In some embodiments the memory device includes data storage for storing data related to the building of the application including but not limited to the account data the financial institution has for the customer prior to the customer request the financial data the financial institution has for the customer prior to the customer request and the data created and or used by the customer account module .

In the embodiment illustrated in the customer account module comprises account and financial data received from a financial institution and or other financial institution systems . In one embodiment the account and financial data received by the customer account module comprises data that the customer currently has with the financial institution. For example if the customer has a savings account and a checking account with the financial institution the information related to these accounts may be stored in the customer account module . The account information can be accessed upon receipt of a request from the customer or from the financial institution interface module . Therefore the customer may use the account information he already has with the financial institution for the customized application without having to manually input the account information into the interface. In one embodiment the account and financial data received by the customer account module comprises data that the customer has on other financial institution systems . For example if the customer has accounts with a secondary financial institution once the request for customer account information is made the customer account module may receive the account information from other financial institution systems and thereafter transfer that information to the financial institution interface module . In other embodiments of the invention the financial institution interface module can access the other financial institution systems directly in order to access account information for customer accounts at the secondary financial institutions for use in the customized application.

The customer account module also allows for storage in the memory device of other customer financial data upon request of the customer . The other customer financial data comprises the same or similar data as stored for the customer . Since the financial institution stores financial data about many customers the financial institution can utilize this information by providing non identifying customer data to the customer for use in the customized application. In this way the customer account module may communicate via the network with the application server to provide the financial institution interface module other customer data so that the customer may be able to utilize the other customer data as a comparison with the customer s own data.

As illustrated in the customer system is generally comprised of a communication device a processing device and a memory device . The customer system is a computing system that allows a user to provide information for a customized application via a network to the financial institution interface module . Further the customer system allows the customer to view the customized application. The processing device is operatively coupled to the communication device and the memory device . The processing device uses the communication device to communicate with the network and other devices on the network such as but not limited to the application server the financial institution account system and other financial institution systems . As such the communication device generally comprises a modem server or other device for communicating with other devices on the network .

As further illustrated in the customer system comprises computer readable instructions stored in the memory device which in one embodiment includes computer readable instructions for a customer interface module . In this way a customer may be able to access the customized application such as the application set up interface and application builder interface in order to create the customized application using customer account information customer data other customer data customer goals or the like and provide the format for the customized application using the customer interface module . The customer system may be for example a desktop personal computer a mobile system such as a laptop PDA cellular phone smart phone or the like. Although only a single customer system is depicted in the customizable application system and environment may contain numerous customer systems .

The other financial institution systems are operatively coupled to the financial institution account system the application server and or the customer system through the network . The other financial institution systems have systems with devices the same or similar to the devices described for the customer system the financial institution account system and the application server i.e. a communication device a processing device and a memory device . Therefore the other financial institution systems communicates with the financial institution account system the application server and or the customer system in the same or similar way as previously described with respect to each system. The other financial institution systems in some embodiments are comprised of systems and devices that allow the customer the financial institution account system and the application server to access account and financial information regarding the customer stored at other financial institutions.

It is understood that the servers systems and devices described herein illustrate one embodiment of the invention. It is further understood that one or more of the servers systems and devices can be combined in other embodiments and still function in the same or similar way as the embodiments described herein.

Once the request is received that the customer wants to create a customized application the financial institution interface module determines the customer accounts that are available from the financial institution data share platform for inclusion in a customized application. In one embodiment of the invention the customer account information may include all the customer accounts available on the financial institution data share platform which may include accounts with the primary financial institution and or accounts with secondary financial institutions. For example the customer may have several accounts including savings accounts retirement accounts checking accounts investment accounts or credit card accounts with various financial institutions. These accounts may be included as the customer account information displayed to the customer for ultimate inclusion into the customized account interface. In one embodiment the customer account information added may be financial accounts from the primary financial institution such as savings accounts checking accounts retirement accounts brokerage accounts or the like. In other embodiments the customer account information added may be accounts from a secondary financial institution including accounts such as savings accounts checking accounts retirement accounts brokerage accounts or the like.

As illustrated in block of after the customer chooses to create a customized account application one of the application set up interfaces is displayed to the customer depending on the type of customer . As illustrated by block prior to using the builder interfaces the customer may supply several inputs that the customer may want to include in the customized account interface. The customer may provide restricted data in the form of customer financial data . This restricted data may be included on the financial institution data share platform. The customer financial data may comprise financial information such as credit cards mortgages loans and other financial information the financial institution and other financial institutions may have regarding the customer . Furthermore in some embodiments other accounts may be included within the customer financial data including accounts associated with spouses or dependents and or cash transactions made by the customer or other people associated with the customer s accounts. The customer may also provide customized data in the form of customer goal data . Customer goal data includes data such as spending goals savings goals payment plans or the like. For example the customer may wish to limit his spending from a specific account for a specific time period. The customer may input the goal limit and the interface may display to the customer his goal limit and how close he is to the goal spending limit for that specific account. In some embodiments the customer may provide shopping list information to include on the customized application.

Furthermore the customer may request other customer financial data to be included in the customizable application. The other customer financial data requested may come in many forms. For example the customer may request to see peer financial data such as but not limited to retirement savings a similarly financially situated individual has accumulated compared to the customer . The customer may request to see peer financial data as it relates to mortgages or home ownership. The customer may request to see peer financial data as it relates to investment account or savings account information. The customer may request to see peer financial data as it relates to checking or debit account information. In one embodiment the customer may request to see other customer financial data from a representative group of people with a similar income. In one embodiment the customer may request to see other customer financial data from a representative group of people with a different income. In one embodiment the customer may request to see other customer financial data from a representative group of people with lower incomes. In one embodiment the customer may request to see other customer financial data from a representative group of similarly aged individuals. In one embodiment the customer may request to see other customer financial data from a representative group of individuals of a different age group.

As illustrated in once the customer selects the customer financial data the customer goal data and or the other customer financial data to include in the customized application the financial institution interface module receives data from the financial institution data share platform. Thereafter the financial institution interface module displays the application builder interfaces to the customer to allow the customer to determine how the customer would like the information displayed in the customized application as illustrated by block .

In the application builder interfaces the customer utilizes the account information selected in order to create the customize application. Within the application builder interfaces the customer may request to use a template interface create his own customized interface or utilize parts of both. As illustrated by block the template interfaces may be provided by the financial institution and may organize customer data in ways that the financial institution may think is helpful to its customers . In other embodiments of the invention customers may create their own customized interfaces and save them as templates for other customers use within the financial institution interface application. Still in other embodiments of the invention the customers may select templates to use in the customized application but thereafter make changes to the template to tailor the customized application to the individual customer s needs.

In some embodiments of the invention the templates include templates designed specifically for interfaces directed to budgeting goals account management financial comparisons or the like. For example the budgeting template may provide the customer with a template interface displaying accounts and budgeting goals based on the customer inputs. The customer may wish to limit spending in three accounts. The three accounts will be displayed on the customized application along with the goal limits. The customized application may also provide break downs of where the spending in the three accounts came from. For example a pie chart indicating the percent spent on various items so that the customer may see spending habits. The template may also display the average budgets of similarly situated customers through the use of the other customer data provided by the financial institution. The comparisons with other customers may allow the customer to see areas of his budget where he can reduce expenditures and save additional amounts of money.

In other examples of templates the goals template may provide the customer with a template interface displaying accounts and account goals based on the customer s inputs. For example the customer may wish to save a specific amount each year in a savings account and an investment account. The template may illustrate the various types of accounts available to the customer and the amount of money the customer needs to fund the account in order to reach the customer s short term and long terms savings goals. In some embodiments the template may include the savings account and the investment account as well as the savings thus far and the amounts left to save for the year in order to reach the goals established by the customer . In some embodiments the template may also illustrate the average high and low savings goal of other similarly positioned customers. The comparisons with the other customers may allow the customer to see area of his savings goals that can be improved.

In other examples the template may comprise a financial comparison template that provides the customer with an interface that displays customer account comparisons between the customer and other customers. For example the customer may wish to use the comparison template interface to compare his financial situation to others similarly positioned as him. The customer may choose to see how his financial accounts compare to a representative population of similarly aged individuals with similar incomes. The customer may also choose to compare his current financial situation with similarly positioned individuals older or younger than him.

In other embodiments of the invention as illustrated by block the customer may provide for a customized format. The customized format allows the customer to format the customized application in any display that he wishes. For example if the customer wants to display budgeting information on his interface he may choose a custom format in order to place both budgeting information and also comparison information on his customized application . In utilizing the custom format the customer may be able to customize the data displayed on the customized application in any order or position that the customer feels is most applicable to the customer s own needs.

As illustrated by decision block if the account information that the customer wishes to add is with a secondary financial institution the financial institution interface module may access the account information from other financial institution systems or from the account information stored by a customer account module in the financial institution account systems related to the accounts of the customer at other financial institutions. In some embodiments of the invention the customer may have to provide information regarding the account prior to the account being selected for the customized application as explained later with respect to .

If the customer wishes to add another account as illustrated by decision block the process returns to decision block . Once the customer has completed adding all of his accounts that the customer wants to include in the customized application the customer is taken to the application builder interface as illustrated by block .

The application set up interfaces are illustrated in . illustrates one embodiment of an individual customer application set up interface . Prior to adding any account information the customer may create a username and password for the customized application in the create username password section . The username password and re enter password entries may be used for security purposes while the email address provides the financial institution with contact information. Utilizing this information the financial institution may provide the customer with his associated account information that can be added to the customized application.

As previously discussed the account information may be information regarding accounts held at the primary financial institution or the account information may enable the customer to add accounts to the customizable application. The accounts may be with a primary financial institution as illustrated in section or the accounts may be with other financial institutions as illustrated in section . The accounts with financial institution section in the set up interface displays the accounts that the customer has with his primary financial institutions. In the example provided in the customer has a checking account a savings account a brokerage account a credit card and a mortgage account with the financial institution.

In one embodiment of the invention the customer may select the accounts for the customized application by selecting the box located next to the desired account in the accounts with financial institution section . For example if the customer wishes to have his savings account be displayed on the customized interface he would select the check box located next to savings account on the application set up interface . The accounts with financial institution section also allows for the customer to apply for and add other accounts that the customer did not previously have with the financial institution by selecting the other account not listed link.

In one embodiment of the invention in the accounts with other firms section the customer may select the accounts the customer has with other financial institutions. The accounts with other firms section allows the customer to select or add checking accounts savings accounts brokerage accounts credit accounts mortgage accounts and custom selections from other financial institutions. Once an account is selected the customer may be prompted to input the account name and the account number as well as the other financial information such as the name of the secondary financial institution to allow the primary financial institution to access the account information. For example if the customer wishes to have a checking account from a secondary financial institution be displayed on the customized application the customer may provide the account name and account number in the account name section and the account number section and thereafter the financial institution interface module or the customer account module may obtain the necessary account information from the secondary financial institution.

After each of the accounts are added the customer may select the add button on the application set up interface to add that account to the customized application. Once the customer has added all of the accounts he wishes to have displayed on the customized application the customer may select the continue button .

In the accounts with other firms section the merchant customer may select the accounts that the merchant has with secondary financial institutions. The accounts with other firms section allows the merchant customer to select checking accounts business accounts brokerage accounts expense accounts credit accounts and custom selections from other financial institutions. Once an account is selected the merchant customer may be prompted to input the account name and the account number of the account at the secondary financial institution. For example if the merchant customer wishes to have an expense account from a secondary financial institution be displayed on the customized application the merchant customer may provide the account name in the account name section and the account number in account number section . The financial institution interface module obtains the account information from the other financial institution systems or from the financial institution account systems and provides the information to the financial institution data share platform.

After each account is added the merchant customer may select the add button in the merchant application set up interface to add the accounts to the customized application. Once the merchant customer has added all of the accounts he wishes to have displayed on the customized application the merchant customer may select the continue button .

As illustrated by decision block through the application builder interface allows the customer to add account information other customer data or customized information to the customized application. The account information as illustrated in block may comprise accounts from the primary financial institution and any secondary financial institutions that that the customer selected in the customized application set up process . In some embodiments of the invention the application builder interface may allow the customer to add additional accounts that the customer may have not added in the customized application set up process . In other embodiments of the invention the application builder interface can take the place of the application set up interface to allow the customer to select the accounts from the primary and secondary financial institutions that the customer wants to include in the customized application.

The other customer data as illustrated in decision block may include a request from the customer to add other customer s financial data from the financial institution into the customized application. The other customer data may include various different types of data from the financial institution data share platform. For example in one embodiment the customer may request to compare the customer s account information with other customer data related to a representative group of people with similar incomes higher incomes and or lower incomes. In another embodiment the customer may request to compare his account information with other customer data from a representative group of individuals of similar or different ages. In one embodiment the customer may request to compare all of his accounts with the other customer data or only a select number of accounts. In some embodiments of the invention the other customer data as illustrated in block may be based on a nationwide average of customers a regional average of customers a state average of customers a county average of customers a city average of customers and or a localized average of customers or the like.

For example the customer may request to compare other customer data of a representative group of individuals with approximately the same income approximately the same age group and who live in the same state. The customer may wish to compare all of his accounts to this type of other customer data in order to determine where he is financially as compared to his peers. In another example the customer may not wish to compare all of his accounts to other customers he may only wish to select specific accounts to compare such as a savings account and or an investment account.

The customized information as illustrated in decision block may include data such as spending goals savings goals payment plans or the like. The customized information provides the customer with the ability to customize the application thus the customer has the ability to determine how the information that the customer selected is illustrated on a display screen. For example the customer may wish to save money in a savings account for a specific amount of time. The customer may input the amount he wishes to save the span of time in which he wants the amount saved and the account to which he is directing the savings. For the desired time the customer may view his progress towards the goal via the customized application because all the information he inputted will be displayed on the interface in a format that he selects.

As illustrated by block after the information is identified for inclusion into the customized application the customer may determine how the customized application should be displayed. In one embodiment the customer may select a pre established template to create his or her customized application as illustrated in decision block . In one embodiment of the invention the templates are created by the financial institution and can be used to compare specific types of information. For example one template may compare the customer s savings accounts and investments accounts with similar aged customers living in the same city through the use of pie charts graphs average return rates for different types of accounts or the like. In other embodiments of the invention one template may be comprised of cash flows in and out of the customer s accounts compared to cash flows of average customers living in various areas of the country with a similar cost of living. The templates may be any type of template set up by the financial institution other customers other types of businesses that are allowed access to the customized application or the like. For example in some embodiments other businesses may want to push a particular investment vehicle retirement plan savings plan home mortgage car payment or the like. Therefore in some embodiments of the invention the business may be allowed to set up templates that the customer can use to see where the customer s finances stand with respect to the particular investment vehicle retirement plan savings plan home mortgage car payment or the like.

If the user does not wish to utilize a template then as illustrated by decision block the customer may customize his own application. For example as explained in further detail later the customer may apply financial tools such as pie charts cash flow analysis investment trending charts or the like to the customized application. Alternatively as illustrated by block if the customer decides to use a template the customer may also customize the template for the customer s own use. Once the format of the customized application is selected the customer can complete the customized application builder process by creating the customized application as illustrated by block .

Embodiments of the application builder interfaces that may be used in the customized application builder process are illustrated in and . provides an individual customer application builder interface . The application builder interface provides an accounts section that lists the customer accounts from the application set up interface in which the customer selected for the customized application. As illustrated in the add customer account section the customer may add an account that the customer forgot to add in the application set up interface . Again the customer accounts may include accounts such as savings checking credit cards mortgages loans and other financial accounts at the primary financial institution or secondary financial institution. Once the customer inputs the selected customer account information in the add customer account section the account may appear under the accounts section . For example may include accounts from the set up interface such as a savings account a brokerage account and a checking account as well as account information added from the add customer account section such as a mortgage account and a credit card account.

As illustrated in the customized information section the customized information may include a transaction specific data section cash transaction data section expenditures section credits section and peer comparison section . The transaction specific data section may include adding goals or achievements to specific accounts in the customized application. As explained above the goals or achievements may include data such as spending goals savings goals payment plans or the like. For example the customer may wish to save money in a savings account for a specific amount of time. Therefore the customer may input the amount he wishes to save the time frame in which he wishes to save it and the account to which he is directing the savings. For the selected time frame the customer may view his progress toward the goal via the customized application because all of the information he inputted is displayed in the customized application in a format that he selects.

Cash transaction section in some embodiments allows the customer to input and monitor cash transactions in which the customer entered on the customized application. Expenditures section in some embodiments allows customers to monitor expenses made with the customer accounts in order to examine when and where the customer spends money. Credits section in some embodiments allows the customer to monitor credits made to the customer accounts in order to examine when and where the customer s money is coming from. The peer comparison section allows the customer access to other customer data as previously described. Within the peer comparison section the customer may select the other customer data with which the customer wants to compare his accounts to.

If the customer elects to provide customized information in the add customized information section for the customized application he may input the transaction specific data cash transaction data expenditures data credits and peer composition into the add customized information section . Once the add customized information section is populated the customer may select the add button to incorporate the customized information into the customized application.

As illustrated in the format options section of the customer may choose the format options for the customized application. In one embodiment the customer may select a pre determined template or create his or her own template for the application via a tab section . The tabs may include templates designed specifically for applications directed to budgeting to goals to account management and to comparisons. The budgeting template provides the customer with a template interface directed towards accounts and budgeting goals the customer inputs. The goals template provides the customer with a template interface directed towards accounts and account goals inputted by the customer . The compare template provides the customer with a template interface directed towards customer account comparisons with other customers. In other embodiments of the invention the compare template can be combined with or work in conjunction with one or more of the other templates.

In one embodiment format options section allows the customer to create a custom interface. The custom format allows the customer to format the customized application in any manner that he chooses. Utilizing the custom format the customer may be able to customize the data displayed on the application in any order or positioning using a number of financial management tools graphs or the like.

Once the customer has selected from the format options section the customer may select to add his format option by selecting the add button . Once the customer is satisfied with the information selected in the customized information section and the format options section he may select to submit his inputs by selecting the finished button .

The merchant customer application builder interface has a customized information section in which the merchant customer can add customized information. The customized information section may include a transaction specific data section market watch section lease and purchase agreements section contracts section cash transactions section expenditure analysis section profit analysis section and competitor tracking section . The transaction specific data section may allow the customer to add information in the customized application regarding specific transactions as reminders or goals for the merchant. For example a merchant customer may pay a low price for supplies which fluctuate in the market. The next time the merchant customer purchases those same supplies the merchant customer knows what the merchant has paid over time for the supplies. The market watch section may allow the merchant customer to watch the market of either competitors or business partners. The lease and purchase agreements section may allow the merchant customer to view the profits and or expenses from the accounts for all lease and purchase agreements made by the merchant customer through a customized application. The contracts section may allow the merchant customer to view current contracts that the merchant customer has and the profits and or expenses being paid with respect to the contract on the customized application. The cash transaction data section allows the merchant customer to input and monitor cash transactions through the customized application. The expenditure analysis section may allow the merchant customer to monitor all expenses made with the accounts to examine when and where the merchant customer spends money. Profit analysis allows the merchant customer to monitor all credits made to the accounts to examine when and where the merchant s funds are being utilized. The competitor tracking section may allow the merchant customer access to other merchant customer data to compare the merchant accounts with other similarly positioned merchants. Within the competitor tracking section the merchant customer may be provided a comparison of one or more of its accounts or finances with the accounts and finances of its peers. If the merchant customer elects to provide customized information in the add customized information section the merchant customer may input more specific details of the customized information to include in the customized application. Once the customized information in the customized information section is selected the merchant customer may select the add button to incorporate the customized information into the customized application.

As illustrated in the format options section of the merchant customer may choose the format in which to display the customized application. The merchant customer may select a pre determined template or create its customized interface for the customized application via a tab section . The tabs include templates designed specifically for applications directed to budgeting margins and to track finances. The budgeting template may provide the merchant with a template interface related accounts and budgeting goals that the merchant customer inputted in the customized information section . The margins template may provide the merchant customer with a template interface directed to displaying accounts and account goals that the merchant customer inputted in order to track the margins of the merchant. The track template may provide the merchant customer with a template for making comparisons of the merchant accounts with other merchants. In other embodiments of the invention the track template may be located within other templates or work in conjunction with other templates in order to track merchant data with respect to other merchants.

In other embodiments of the invention the merchant customer may also utilized the format options section to create a customized interface. The customized format features allow the merchant customer to format the customized application in any manner that the merchant customer desires to see its financial institution displayed. Utilizing the custom format the merchant may be able to customize the data displayed in the customized application in any order or positioning desired.

Once the merchant customer has selected from the format options section the merchant customer may select to add his format option by selecting the add button . Once the merchant customer is satisfied with the information selected in the customized information section and the format options section he may select to submit his inputs by selecting the finished button .

One embodiment of the customized application that can be created by the customer is illustrated in and displays a comparison of the some of the accounts of the customer with the accounts of other customers based on similar ages and incomes. The accounts section lists the accounts the customer provided for the application at the set up interface and the builder interface . In the balance section the current balance for each account in the accounts section is displayed. For example in this instance checking account as displayed in section has a current balance of 2000 dollars as displayed in the balance section . The customized application created by the customer in this embodiment displays a budget comparison of two of the accounts listed in the accounts section . In some embodiments of the invention the customer may add additional accounts to the budgeting accounts section by selecting an account from the accounts listed in the accounts section and selecting the add button . At the application builder interface the customer has also chosen to perform a peer comparison of like aged and like income individuals. The financial institution interface module compiles the like age and like income data from other customers and provides the data to the customer system via the customized application . For example the customer has selected to view budget comparisons of the accounts of credit card 1 and credit card 2 as illustrated in the budgeting accounts section . Therefore the financial institution interface module provides the customer with information about how like situated peers for age and income utilize their credit cards as displayed in the age pie chart and income comparison pie chart in the budgeting comparison section .

The budgeting comparison section may include a current pie chart of the customer spending based on the accounts selected by the customer . The current pie chart shows the most common purchases made with credit card 1 and credit card 2 these purchases include retail store purchases fuel purchases grocery purchases entertainment purchases and payment of bills . The common purchases made by the customer are reflected in credit card purchases made my peers of like age and income. The provided break downs of the customer s current spending in a current pie chart and the spending of like age individuals in an age pie chart and like income individuals in an income pie chart provides the customer with a percentage break down of spending on various items. In this way the customer may see spending habits and areas in which he could be saving.

The customized application in this instance further provides a section for goals . After the customer has viewed his current spending in the current pie chart and the spending for like aged peers in an age pie chart and like income peers in an income pie chart the customer may wish to limit his spending in specific areas. For example after viewing the budget comparison section the customer may wish to limit his spending on groceries . The goals section allows the customer to input his goals as they relate to the budgeting comparison . Once the customer has inputted his goals he can add the goals to the customized application by selecting the add button . Selecting goals in the goal section allows the financial institution interface module to further track the budgeting comparison with respect to the customer s spending goals.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system a machine a device a computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business process a computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code or the like an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor may be configured to perform a certain function in a verity of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the functions by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical infrared electromagnetic and or semiconductor system apparatus and or device. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

It will also be understood that one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

It will further be understood that some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of systems methods and or computer program products. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

It will also be understood that the one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory or the like that can direct a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

