---

title: System and method for integrating a dark trading facility and a securities exchange
abstract: A system and method are described for the providing securities exchange members increased liquidity for affecting trades. Securities exchange members will have access to both a Dark Trading Facility and securities exchange for trading. When trading on the security exchange, these members will be able to access the Dark Trading Facility using the security exchange infrastructure. Further, when such members enter orders onto the Dark Trading Facility, they will have access to the security exchange display book from the dark pool of the Dark Trading Facility. The trading transactions executed in the Dark Trading Facility or initiated by the Dark Trading Facility, preferably, are automatic and anonymous.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510211&OS=08510211&RS=08510211
owner: NYBX, LLC
number: 08510211
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120702
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 258 376 entitled System and Method for Integrating a Dark Trading Facility and a Securities Exchange filed Oct. 24 2008 now U.S. Pub. No. 2009 0210337 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 982 290 filed Oct. 24 2007 both incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to systems and methods that are used for enhancing liquidity in fragmented markets with disparate single purpose venues.

In the United States and throughout the world there are traditional exchanges for trading securities. In the United States these exchanges would include the New York Stock Exchange NASDAQ and American Stock Exchange. In Asia it would include the Australian Securities Exchange Taiwan Stock Exchange the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Shenzhen Stock Exchange Tokyo Stock Exchange and Stock Market Division of Korea Exchange. In Europe it would include the London Stock Exchange Paris Bourse Frankfurt Stock Exchange and SWX Swiss Exchange. In South America it would include the Rio de Janeiro Stock Exchange Santiago Stock Exchange Jamaica Stock Exchange and Caracas Stock Exchange. Normally each of these exchanges would be approved under the appropriate governmental laws and regulations and organized so that its members would be able to trade common stock in listed companies. These traditional exchanges are called Displayed Markets . Displayed Markets provide price quotes for transactions on that venue to the market at large.

In recent years dramatic increases in the capability of computer and telecommunications technologies changes to the organizational structure of large market participants as well as changes to the national market structure precipitated by regulatory changes have caused the emergence and growth of a variety of electronic equity trading venues that capture order flow. With barriers to entry in the industry substantially lower innovative entrepreneurs are also able to offer traditional order matching and execution services faster and cheaper providing certainty of order fulfillment sooner. These trading venues consist of internalized order flow at broker dealers Electronic Communication Networks ECNs and Alternative Trading Systems ATSs . Many of these venues are also a Non Displayed Market where buy and sell orders cross without the benefit of publicly available quotes. These Non Displayed markets are commonly referred to as dark pools of liquidity.

While the proliferation of these liquidity pools expand investors options in choosing a trading venue that best suits their needs for a particular order this growth has also caused market fragmentation. The result is that getting a large order executed without an impact to the securities market at large has become very difficult.

Until the present invention traditional securities exchanges and dark pools a k a Displayed and Non Displayed Markets have operated as separate trading facilities.

Investors desire access to liquid high quality markets as well as speed and certainty of execution without market dislocation. The present invention provides a solution to the problem by allowing Displayed and Non Displayed to interact without a dislocation to the market.

The present invention is a system and method for participants e.g. ATSs ECNs Exchanges Broker Dealers in both Displayed and Non Displayed markets to place orders in a dark trading facility that is connected to a Public Display Market.

Exchange members will be able to access the Dark Trading Facility using the exchange infrastructure to place orders. Other market participants can have a separate access to the Dark Trading Facility for conducting transactions.

The Dark Trading Facility will act as both a matching engine and an order router. As such the Dark Trading Facility will have access to both displayed and non displayed orders on the security exchange and orders sent to it from participants. If the matching engine of the Dark Trading Facility identifies an opportunity trade with contra side orders residing in the Dark Trading Facility system database it will execute the trade and record it through the securities exchange with a special designation. The second type of trade that the Dark Trading Facility will be involved with is where the Dark Trading Facility identifies an opportunity for a trade between an order entered on the Dark Trading Facility from participants and the securities exchange display book. In these situations the Dark Trading Facility will route that order to the securities exchange for execution and the trade will be recorded through the securities exchange as a normal trading transaction.

The present invention creates a new type of trading venue that for the first time will allow display and reserve orders to interact with dark orders facilitating the execution of large transactions. Exchange members and participants can enter an order s volume and price and the analytical programs that run the venue continuously search its own dark book as well as displayed and reserve orders executing the trade when it aggregates sufficient liquidity at the price point and printing it to the exchange tape will be described in greater detail in a remainder of the specification referring to the drawings.

The present invention is a system and method for the integration of a security exchange and a dark pool so that authorized securities Traders will have the ability to trade on either the Dark Trading Facility or the securities exchange to provide the best venue for trading a particular order large block size or otherwise. The integration of a securities exchange and Dark Trading Facility provides Displayed and Non Displayed trading markets for Traders that are members of the securities exchange.

Securities exchange member orders submitted to the exchange will have indirect access to orders entered on the Dark Trading Facility through the exchange infrastructure. These members also may decide to enter orders on the Dark Trading Facility so that it may trade anonymously within the Dark Trading Facility or against orders listed on the exchange display book. For example the Dark Trading Facility may be a preferred trading venue for large block trades which could adversely impact market price if such a trade were made visible on the securities exchange display book. Orders may also be split and part will be listed on the securities exchange display book and part entered on the Dark Trading Facility.

The following acronyms and definitions shall be used in describing the system and method of the present invention 

 Market Maker means a professional securities dealer or person that stands ready to buy and sell a particular stock on a regular and continuous basis at a publicly quoted price.

 Market Order means an order to buy or sell securities immediately at the best price obtainable in the market.

 NMS National Market System means a centralized system for reporting transactions and quotations from all qualified market makers such as the NASDAQ.

 Protected Bid or Protected Offer means a quotation in an NMS stock that i is displayed by an automated trading center ii is disseminated pursuant to an effective NMS plan and iii is an automated quotation that is the best bid or best offer of a national securities exchange or a national securities association.

 Securities Exchange Trade Through is an event that occurs when a member on the securities exchange initiates the purchase of a security traded through an ITS an ITS Security at a price that is higher than the price at which the security is being offered or initiates a sale on the securities exchange of such a security at a price that is lower than the price at which securities are being bid for at the time of the purchase or sale to another ITS participating markets center as reflected by the offer bid then being displayed on the securities exchange which from such other markets center.

 Third Participating Market Center Trade Through is an event that occurs when a member on the securities exchange initiates the purchase of a security by sending a commitment to trade through the system and such commitment results in an execution at a price that is higher than the price at which the security is being offered or initiates the sale of such a security by sending a commitment to trade through the system and such commitment results in an execution at a price that is lower than the price at which the security is being bid for at the time of the purchase or sale in another participating market center as reflected by the offer bid then being displayed on the securities exchange from such other market center.

 Trade Through means the completion of an order at a price inferior to the best posted bid or offer. For example the market maker who received the order is unable or unwilling to fill the order at the best posted bid or offer price and as a result the trade is instead executed at the Market Maker s price.

 Dark Trading Facility Day Order or Day Order means an order that if not executed expires at the end of the regular trading session of the day on which it is entered. If the order is not executed by the end of the regular trading session the order or a portion thereof not executed will be canceled back to the Dark Trading Facility User.

 Dark Trading Facility GTT Order Dark Trading Facility Good Till a Specified Time Order means an order that is available for trading until a specified time after which the order or the portion thereof not executed will be canceled back to the Dark Trading Facility User.

 Dark Trading Facility IOC Order Dark Trading Facility Intermediate or Cancel Order means a limit order that is to be executed in whole or in part as soon as such order is entered into the Dark Trading Facility and the entire order or portion thereof not executed will be canceled back to the Dark Trading Facility User.

 Dark Trading Facility IOS IOC Order Dark Trading Facility Intermarket Sweep Intermediate or Cancel Order means an order that is sent by the Dark Trading Facility to the securities exchange DBK which will execute against all available contra side liquidity on the securities exchange DBK to the fullest extent possible. If a residual order remains a residual order will be returned to the Dark Trading Facility where it will remain until it executes against additional contra side liquidity or be canceled back to the Dark Trading Facility User without routing to other automated trading centers for execution.

 Dark Trading Facility Market Pegging Order means a market order that is pegged to buy at the national best offer NBO or sell at the national best bid NBB plus or minus the securities exchange MPV.

 Dark Trading Facility Midpoint Pegging Order means an order with an instruction to peg to the midpoint of the NBBO.

 Dark Trading Facility Primary Pegging Order means an order that is pegged to buy at the NBB or sell at the NBO plus or minus the securities exchange MPV.

 Dark Trading Facility User means any member or member organization sponsoring member organization or sponsored participant at authorized trader that is authorized to access the Dark Trading Facility through the securities exchange or authorized to directly access the Dark Trading Facility.

Referring to generally at a block diagram of the system of the present invention is shown. The system of the present invention includes Dark Trading Facility and securities exchange . As shown Dark Trading Facility connects to securities exchange via electronic communications link .

Preferably Dark Trading Facility will include an order router for routing orders from the Dark Trading Facility to securities exchange . Dark Trading Facility also includes matching engine that is used for executing matches between orders newly entered on the Dark Trading Facility from Traders and orders stored in Dark Trading Facility system database . Since the Dark Trading Facility has access to the securities exchange DBK and away markets the matching engine can identify trading opportunities in these markets and will route orders to the securities exchange and may also route to away markets using order router to affect trades.

Preferably Dark Trading Facility will process orders that are confirmed for automatic execution. However it is understood that other orders execution methods may be used by Dark Trading Facility and still be within the scope of the present invention.

Referring to a plurality of Traders are shown connected to securities exchange and also Dark Trading Facility . These are shown as Trader at Trader at and Trader at . Preferably these Traders are securities exchange members that have access to the securities exchange and the Dark Trading Facility for transacting trades. Traders and may be broker dealers other exchanges e.g. the NASDAQ Alternative Trading Systems ATSs Electronic Communications Network ECN . The purposes of the present invention a Trader may be any entity authorized to trade securities and such entity will be within the scope of the present invention.

The transmission of orders from Trader at via electronic communications link Trader at via electronic communications link and Trader at via electronic communications link to Dark Trading Facility are unidirectional communications.

Referring to securities exchange it will maintain a securities exchange DBK that will include displayed and reserve non displayed amounts for securities. Securities exchange has one or a plurality of Traders connected to it that is are qualified in accordance with the appropriate securities regulations and governing laws to trade on the securities exchange. Dark Trading Facility has access to the securities DBK via bidirectional electronic communications link that connects between API of the Dark Trading Facility and API of the securities exchange. Trader at Trader at and Trader at are only meant to be representative qualified Traders connected to the security exchange for transacting trades.

Order information on the securities exchange DBK is transmitted to Dark Trading Facility via bidirectional electronic communications link for the purpose of providing greater liquidity for matching the orders on the securities exchange DBK. If matching engine of Dark Trading Facility identifies a contra side trading opportunity on the securities exchange DBK it will route the appropriate order that is posted or stored in Dark Trading Facility system database to securities exchange via bidirectional electronic communications link . The securities exchange will execute the trade and this trade will be recorded on XE tape .

As shown in or Dark Trading Facility may include interface including an application programming interface API to which electronic communications links and will connect. The orders transmitted from Traders and to Dark Trading Facility will be processed by this API.

Also as shown in or Dark Trading Facility may include interface including an API to which electronic communications link will connect. The order information transmitted from securities exchange and orders transmitted from the Dark Trading Facility to the securities exchange will be processed by this API.

Further as shown in or securities exchange may include interface including an API to which Trader at Trader at and Trader at will connect via communications links and respectively. The orders transmitted from these Traders to the securities exchange will be processed by the API.

Lastly as shown in or securities exchange may include interface including an API to which electronic communications link will connect. The order information and order transmitted on this link will be processed by this API. It is understood that electronic communications links and may be wired or wireless communications links and still be within the scope of the present invention.

Referring to generally a a general description of the trades carried out by or through Dark Trading Facility will be provided. Preferably Traders and will transmit block size orders or other orders desired to be traded in a dark liquidity pool to Dark Trading Facility via electronic communications links and for the purpose of finding matching contra side orders. This provides trading opportunities for Traders away from the securities exchange DBK.

For purposes of illustration according to contra side buy and sell orders from Traders and will be posted and stored in system database . Buy orders are posted or stored at section and sell orders at section . However it is understood that other methods of posting and storing buy and sell orders may be used and still be within the scope of the present invention. For example buy and sell orders may be cached upon entry for immediate matching and or stored in various methods for presentation for matching and still be within the scope of the present invention.

When trades are executed within Dark Trading Facility between contra side orders posted or stored in buy orders section and sell orders section a record of these transactions will be transmitted to securities exchange and recorded on tape . However the records of these trades will have a special designation when recorded on tape to distinguish them from normal trades that are executed by securities exchange .

Display book of securities exchange has access via bidirectional communications link to the block size or other size orders transmitted to Dark Trading Facility from Traders and and posted or stored in system database . If matching engine identifies a trading opportunity between the posted or stored orders in Dark Trading Facility system database and contra side orders on the securities exchange DBK the matching engine will cause such posted or stored orders to be routed to the securities exchange for trading and execution and the trade will be recorded on tape of securities exchange .

Preferably trades that are executed on Dark Trading Facility or initiated based on orders routed to securities exchange or away markets will be traded automatically and anonymously. Although the trades executed in the Dark Trading Facility or initiated by it are automatic and anonymous upon execution of a trade the contra side parties will be notified of trade execution in a manner that their records can be updated yet preserve the anonymity of such contra trading parties.

Dark Trading Facility is also provided via bidirectional electronic communications link with information about away markets. If after any opportunities to trade with the securities exchange DBK and within the Dark Trading Facility system database according to the operating rules of the Dark Trading Facility have been exhausted there remain additional trading opportunities in away markets. Preferably Dark Trading Facility will route the applicable orders through securities exchange to the appropriate away market. The executed trade will be reported on XE tape or otherwise in a conventional manner for trading with away markets.

Now that a general description of the operation of the system of the present invention has been provided a more detailed description of the integration of Dark Trading Facility and securities exchange will be provided. This description will include the preferable operating methods for the present invention.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention Dark Trading Facility permits securities exchange members such as Traders and to have an additional sources of liquidity without adversely affecting market trading conditions such as making large block size trades that may not have been previously available to them on the securities exchange in an integrated manner. Dark Trading Facility also will permit securities exchange members Traders and to execute smaller orders than block size orders on the Dark Trading Facility and permit them to have access to multiple price points of displayed liquidity to meet size and price execution requirements. Further Dark Trading Facility will permit securities exchange members Traders and to have multiple sources to automatically and anonymously trade their large block size orders or other orders. Shares from these multiple sources along with shares posted and stored in the Dark Trading Facility can be aggregated and traded against each new order entered on the Dark Trading Facility.

Dark Trading Facility will permit orders transmitted to the Dark Trading Facility from Traders and to interact with the aggregate of displayed and reserve non displayed orders on the securities exchange DBK and the marketable liquidity in away markets. Preferably Dark Trading Facility will evaluate trades considering the depth and away markets including protected quotes protected bids or protective offers of all automated trading centers listed on the security exchange. Also preferably Dark Trading Facility will trade only with respect to securities that are listed on security exchange . However it is understood that other securities may be traded consistent with applicable laws regulations and rules.

The operating times of Dark Trading Facility may follow the operating times of security exchange . However since the Dark Trading Facility can operate 24 hours a day to the extent that the hours of operation of securities exchange increase to 24 hours a day Dark Trading Facility can operate 24 hours a day.

As described previously preferably Dark Trading Facility is an anonymous trading system. As such there will be no information displayed to the public or to the securities exchange members about the securities that are available for trading on the Dark Trading Facility. Further clearance and settlement of trade executions occurring on or initiated by Dark Trading Facility will be anonymous. However a trade report will be generated after each trade execution to notify the involved parties of the consummation of a trade involving their security so their records may be updated.

Preferably each Dark Trading Facility User is a securities exchange member and as such will be authorized to access Dark Trading Facility . A Dark Trading Facility User may enter orders on their own behalf or on behalf of clients customers. It is understood that there may be defined requirements and rules to be followed for a person firm or entity to qualify as a Dark Trading Facility User.

As stated Dark Trading Facility Users such as Trader at Trader at and Trader at will make their orders available on Dark Trading Facility for automatic matching and execution. Preferably the orders that Dark Trading Facility will accept and execute include but are not limited to limit orders Dark Trading Facility IOC orders Dark Trading Facility ISO IOC orders and Dark Trading Facility NBBO Pegging Orders. Dark Trading Facility NBBO Pegging Orders include but are not limited to Dark Trading Facility Midpoint Pegging Orders Dark Trading Facility Primary Pegging Orders and Dark Trading Facility Market Pegging Orders. Preferably all orders that are accepted by Dark Trading Facility will have a minimum share size of round lots or PRLs. Although Dark Trading Facility is capable of accepting Market Orders for trading and execution preferably such Market Orders are not traded on the Dark Trading Facility.

Preferably each order that is accepted by Dark Trading Facility for execution will include at least the following parameters security symbol limit price side e.g. buy sell short sell and size of the order. However it is understood that each order may be required to have more or less than the parameters just named and still be within the scope of the present invention.

A Dark Trading Facility User may also include other parameters as part of the order. For example a TIF may be added to the order. If this parameter is added and the order is not matched and executed to meet the TIF the order will be canceled. Preferably if a Dark Trading Facility User does not designate a TIF for a given order the order will be treated as a Dark Trading Facility Day Order and be canceled at the end of the trading day of the securities exchange if it is not matched and executed by that time.

Another parameter that a Dark Trading Facility User may choose to add to a specific order is a MTV designation. The MTV parameter will be a minimum amount of shares of a security against which an order will attempt to execute if there is sufficient contra side liquidity available on Dark Trading Facility at the designated price. Preferably the MTV may be determined i based on all contra side liquidity and protected quotes of all automated trading centers or ii based only on the contra side liquidity on the Dark Trading Facility and the depth of the securities exchange DBK. Either determination may be used and still be within the scope of the present invention. If the Dark Trading Facility User does not include a MTV parameter with an order the order will be matched and executed with any available contra side liquidity available to Dark Trading Facility . Further if the Dark Trading Facility User includes an MTV parameter with an order but does not indicate which of the two types it is designating the Dark Trading Facility will default to all available contra side liquidity and the protected quotes of all automated trading centers.

Although protected quotes are referred to in the present example it is understood that the depth of the away markets could be considered and still be within the scope of the present invention.

When an order is entered on the Dark Trading Facility from Trader at Trader at or Trader at with an MTV designation a determination must be made whether the MTV is met before any trading can take place. If it is not met the order with this designation will be stored in the Dark Trading Facility until it is met or the order is cancelled. Referring to an exemplary evaluation of whether an MTV for an order is met will be described.

Referring to generally a an exemplary NBBO and exemplary Dark Trading Facility securities exchange DBK and away market orders are shown for determining if the conditions of any MTV are met. The determination of the MTV in accordance with will be based on all contra side liquidity in the Dark Trading Facility and the securities exchange DBK and the protected quotes of all automated trading centers. More specifically the determination of whether the MTV condition is met will review the contra side liquidity of the Dark Trading Facility the securities exchange DBK depth of book and the protected quotations from all automated trading centers.

Again referring to at the NBBO is shown for a particular security. According to the NBBO the national best bid NBB is 122.20 on the ISE for 5 000 shares and the national best offer NBO is 122.26 on the PHLX for 10 000 shares.

Sell order section of system database includes Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 shown at which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.25. Securities exchange DBK includes a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.26. The Philadelphia exchange PHLX an away market includes a sell order for 10 000 shares at a price of 122.26.

Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 is entered on Dark Trading Facility by Trader Trader or Trader for 100 000 shares at a price of 12.26 with a MTV of 7000 Day Order. There must now be a determination whether this buy order can be traded. Thus for MTV purposes there must be at least 7000 shares at a price marketable or better than the designated price of 122.26 available to trade to meet the MTV condition.

From the contra side orders available for Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 to measure its MTV against are Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 for 5000 shares and Securities Exchange Order No. 1 for 5000 shares. The PHLX Order for 10 000 shares a protected offer from an away market is aggregated with the previously described 10 000 shares. It is understood that the 10 000 shares on the PHLX may consist of one or more orders on the PHLX. The prices of these three sell orders are all marketable or better than the designated price of 122.26 so all are properly aggregated to determine if the MTV is met or referred to as the MTV being triggered. As such there are 20 000 shares available for the MTV determination so the MTV is triggered since only 7000 shares were required.

Once the MTV is triggered there will be an allocation of shares for automatic and anonymous trading and execution. Trading Faculty will send 95 000 shares of the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 buy order to securities exchange DBK for trading and execution at a price of 122.26 ISO IOC. The Dark Trading Facility will also execute a trade internally for 5000 shares between the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 sell order and the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 buy order at a price of 122.25. However no shares should be routed to protected quotes of the away markets to fill the PHLX Order s for 10 000 shares because it will not trade through the PHLX under these conditions. Also no shares will be routed to the PHLX because the order had the ISO IOC designation that accompanied the shares sent to the securities exchange DBK thus any residual shares are to be returned without being routed to the away markets.

With regard to the 95 000 shares of the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 buy order that were routed to the securities exchange 5000 shares filled the securities exchange DBK 5000 share sell order at a price of 122.26 and 90 000 shares were returned to buy order section of the system database as the unfilled balance of the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 order at 122.26 with an MTV of 7000 shares.

Dark Trading Facility preferably is configured to act upon market and order information that is available to it at the time an order is entered into the Dark Trading Facility. Therefore at the time an order is entered onto Dark Trading Facility by a Trader the Dark Trading Facility takes a snapshot of the market for a particular security. Preferably this snapshot includes all orders for that security in Dark Trading Facility database all displayed and non displayed orders on securities exchange DBK and protected quotations on automated trading centers away markets . The orders that are part of the snapshot will be what the newly entered order from a Trader will trade against. Referring to an example is provided for describing how the Dark Trading Facility snapshot coordinates order execution and the allocation of shares.

Referring to generally at the description of an exemplary snapshot will be provided of the market for a security when an order from a Trader is entered onto Dark Trading Facility . Again referring to the NBBO range shown at is 101.10 to 101.15. At a snapshot of security exchange DBK is shown. At the buy volumes for reserve and display shares are shown. At the sell volumes for display and reserve shares are shown. At the prices for the various buy and sell volumes are shown.

At a snapshot of the rollup of displayed and reserved non displayed shares on the securities exchange DBK are shown. At the total rolled up buy volumes are shown and the total rolled up sell volumes are shown at . At the prices for the rollup buy and sell volumes are shown.

At the snapshot of the away markets for the security at issue is shown. The representative away markets are shown at . The volumes for these away markets at the NBB are shown at and at the NBO are shown at .

Finally at the snapshot of the market for the security interest in the Dark Trading Facility system database is shown. At the buy volume is shown and at the sell volume is shown. The prices of these volumes are shown at .

It is understood that the NBBO and snapshots of the market for a particular security on the securities exchange DBK rollup of prices away markets and Dark Trading Facility system database that are shown in are meant to be representative only and may differ in amounts and prices and still be within the scope of the present invention. Further there may be greater numbers of buy and sell volumes and participants in the away markets in the snapshot and still be within the scope of the present invention.

In processing orders Dark Trading Facility will have situations where there will be remaining shares that have not been matched. According to the operation of Dark Trading Facility these remaining shares referred to as residual shares will be stored in the appropriate section of system database until later matched or the order is cancelled. However if the residual share balance of an order that has being returned to Dark Trading Facility system database is less than the original MTV of the order the MTV will be automatically adjusted to equal the residual share balance. When this happens the order will continue to execute with available liquidity when and if the adjusted MTV can be met. Referring to an example of processing residual shares and modification of the MTV will be described.

Referring to generally at an exemplary set of order information is provided for describing the handling of residual shares and modification of the MTV. At of a representative order is entered onto Dark Trading Facility from a Trader which is a buy order for 100 000 shares with an MTV of 50 000 shares at a price of 101.20. The snapshot of the market with which this new order will be compared will be based on the snapshot shown in .

The depth of securities exchange DBK includes the displayed and reserved orders that have been rolled up as shown at of . This amount is 54 000 shares which is shown at of . The away markets as shown at of are 4600 shares at 101.15 the NBO which is shown at of . The other Dark Trading Facility orders shown at are 10 000 shares at 101.16 which is shown at in .

Given the aggregate number of shares from the depth of the security exchange DBK away markets and other Dark Trading Facility orders is 68 600 shares at the marketable price or better than 101.20 the MTV of 50 000 shares at 101.20 was met at the time the order shown at of was entered. Dark Trading Facility will send a buy order for 90 000 shares to the securities exchange DBK at a price of 101.20. Securities exchange will execute trades for 54 000 shares. This will include 3500 shares at 101.15 800 shares at 101.16 5000 shares at 101.17 8000 shares at 101.18 16 000 shares at 101.19 and 20 700 shares at 101.20. Securities exchange will also route ISO IOC orders to away markets. In accordance with the example this will mean that 4 600 shares will be routed to the away markets at a price of 101.15. This will mean that 31 400 will be returned to the Dark Trading Facility as residual shares.

Dark Trading Facility will execute a trade for 10 000 shares at 101.16 between the buy order that was just entered and the sell volume that was in the Dark Trading Facility system database. Given all of the executed trades there will be 31 400 residual shares left in the Dark Trading Facility system database from the original 100 000 share buy order and the new MTV will be adjusted to equal this residual share amount at a price of 101.20.

Preferably Trade Facility will be operated to permit automated and anonymous trade executions to occur within at and through the NBBO. However Trade Facility will protect the bids and offers on the securities exchange DBK that are at the same price or better than the NBBO and protected quotations protected bids or offers on away markets automated trading centers . The protected bids and offers on the securities exchange DBK will include the depth of the displayed and non displayed reversed see orders. Moreover Dark Trading Facility orders preferably will be evaluated on a price time priority basis to determine whether such orders are eligible to execute against available contra side liquidity based on the price and the MTV of the orders. These features will be shown in describing .

In executing trades Dark Trading Facility also considers whether latency may occur when trading entities evaluate liquidity on other away markets or when orders are routed to such other away markets. An example of how this latency consideration is treated also is shown in describing .

Referring to generally at an exemplary set of order information is provided for demonstrating determining order evaluation and allocation. At of a representative order is entered onto Dark Trading Facility by Trader or which is a buy order for 200 000 shares with a MTV of 100 000 shares at 101.21. The snapshot of the market with which this new entering order will be compared will be based on the snapshot shown in . Accordingly the depth of securities exchange DBK at a price of 101.21 which includes the displayed and reserved orders that have been rolled up is shown at of . This amount is 96 000 shares which is shown at of . The away markets as shown at of are 4600 shares at 101.15 the NBO which is shown at of . The other Dark Trading Facility orders as shown at of are 10 000 shares at 101.16 which is shown at in .

Given the aggregate number of shares from the depth of the security exchange DBK away markets and other Dark Trading Facility orders is 110 600 shares at the marketable price or better than 101.21 the MTV of 100 000 shares at 101.21 is met at the time the order shown at of was entered. Dark Trading Facility will send the buy order for 190 000 shares to the securities exchange DBK at a price of 101.21. Securities exchange will execute trades for 96 000 shares. This will include 3500 shares at 101.15 800 shares at 101.16 5000 shares at 101.17 8000 shares at 101.18 16 000 shares at 101.19 20 700 shares at 101.20 and 42 000 shares at 102.21. Securities exchange will also route 4600 shares to the away markets at a price of 101.15. When the Dark Trading Facility ISO IOC orders are sent to the away markets all are returned with fills except in the 1000 shares for the NASDAQ order. The NASDAQ order was not filled because of the latency associated with the time the snapshot was taken and the time the order was routed to the away markets for execution. During this latency period the order may have been filled by another contra side order from another market participant or it could have been cancelled and that is why it is no longer available for filling.

Dark Trading Facility will execute a trade for 10 000 shares at 101.16 between the buy order that was just entered and the sell volume that was in the Dark Trading Facility system database. Given all of the executed trades there will be 90 400 residual shares left in the Dark Trading Facility system database from the original 200 000 share buy order and the new MTV will be adjusted to equal this residual share amount at a price of 101.21.

When orders are entered into Dark Trading Facility these orders are placed in price time priority according to the preferred order parameters. Again preferably these parameters are security symbol limit price side e.g. buy sell short sell and size of the order. It is understood that other parameters may be used for determining the price time priority such as MTV TIF etc. Price time priority sequencing may be affected and or preempted in the allocation of orders when such orders have different order parameters such as size and MTV designations. Referring to an example of price time priority preemption will be described.

Referring to generally a an exemplary NBBO and four orders entered in time sequence on Dark Trading Facility are shown. At the market is shown with an NBBO of 20.00 to 20.05 for 1000 shares to buy or sell ABC security respectfully. The pricing of each of the four sequenced orders that is listed in is pegged at the midpoint of the NBBO.

As shown at Order No. 1 is entered on the Dark Trading Facility at time 1 00 00 and this order is a buy order for 100 000 shares of ABC security with MTV of 100 000 shares. As shown at Order No. 2 is entered on Dark Trading Facility at time 1 05 00 and this is a sell order for 25 000 shares of ABC security with a MTV of 25 000 shares. However there can be no executions between Order No. 1 and Order No. 2 because the MTV of Order No. 1 has not been met.

As shown at at time 1 10 00 Order No. 3 to sell 50 000 shares of ABC security with a MTV of 50 000 shares is entered on Dark Trading Facility . However there can be no executions between Order No. 1 and Order No. 3 because the MTV of Order No. 1 has not been met by the aggregate of Order Nos. 1 and 2.

As shown at at time 1 18 00 Order No. 4 to sell 100 000 shares of ABC security with the MTV of 100 000 shares is entered on Dark Trading Facility . However there can be an execution between Order No. 1 and Order No. 4 because the MTV of Order No. 1 has been met by the aggregate of Order Nos. 2 3 and 4. Order No. 4 will trade against Order No. 1 because upon entry it alone met the MTV condition of Order No. 1 and will preempt Order Nos. 2 and 3 in the order sequence because of the inability of Order Nos. 2 and 3 to meet the MTV condition.

Dark Trading Facility will execute orders in a predetermined priority. Preferably first the Dark Trading Facility will review the available contra side liquidity at the Dark Trading Facility order s limit pegged price on the securities exchange DBK. This will include displayed and non display reserved liquidity. Second the Dark Trading Facility will review the available contra side liquidity in the Dark Trading Facility system database at the Dark Trading Facility order s limit pegged price. Third the Dark Trading Facility will review the available contra side liquidity of all protected bids and offers on the away markets at the Dark Trading Facility order s limit pegged price. However Dark Trading Facility orders will not trade through any protected bids or offers. Referring to any description for execution priority and trade through a protected quote will be provided.

Referring to generally at an exemplary NBBO and set of orders are shown that will be used for describing the execution priority and trade through of a protected quote. At the NBBO is shown for a particular security. According to the NBBO the national best bid NBB is 122.20 on the ISE for 5000 shares and the national best offer NBO is 122.26 on the PHLX for 10 000 shares. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.26 with no MTV is shown. At Securities Exchange DBK Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.27 is shown. At the PHLX Order is shown which is a sell order for 10 000 shares at a price of 122.26. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 that has been newly entered on Dark Trading Facility is shown which is a buy order for 100 000 shares at a price of 122.27 with no MTV. From this set of orders and the NBBO Dark Trading Facility will allocate 10 000 shares to PHLX 85 000 shares to the securities exchange DBK and 5000 shares within the Dark Trading Facility.

In more detail given the execution priority described above Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 that has just been entered will send 85 000 shares to the securities exchange DBK at 122.27 ISO IOC. Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will execute a trade 5000 shares with the Securities Exchange DBK Order No. 1 at 122.27. Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will execute a trade of 5000 shares with Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 at 122.26. Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 routes 10 000 shares to PHLX of the away markets at 122.26 ISO IOC. The 10 000 shares routed to PHLX will fill the PHLX Order.

After the trade is executed in the securities exchange for 5000 shares the residual 80 000 shares are sent back to Dark Trading Facility where they will be posted in the buy section of the Dark Trading Facility system database at a price of 122.27. As shown in this example the price for the PHLX Order was protected.

According to the preferred operation of Dark Trading Facility if contra side liquidity in the securities exchange DBK is priced equal to or better than liquidity in the Dark Trading Facility the order entered on the Dark Trading Facility will be sent to the securities exchange in the form of an ISO IOC order. If the order sent to the securities exchange DBK is not fully executed against the securities exchange DBK the securities exchange will route the residual shares back to the Dark Trading Facility with a new MTV when applicable where it will interact with the contra side liquidity in the Dark Trading Facility system database or be posted until it executes against new contra side liquidity or be canceled back to the Dark Trading Facility User without routing to away markets for execution. Referring to a description will be provided directed to the operation of the Dark Trading Facility where there are equal or better prices at the securities exchange DBK.

Referring to generally at an exemplary NBBO and a set of order information are provided for describing operation of the Dark Trading Facility with regard to equal or better prices being available at the securities exchange DBK. At the NBBO is shown for a particular security. According to the NBBO the national best bid NBB is 122.20 on the ISE for 5000 shares and the national best offer NBO is 122.26 on the PHLX for 10 000 shares. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.26 with no MTV is shown. At Securities Exchange DBK Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.26 is shown. At the PHLX Order is shown which is a sell order for 10 000 shares at a price of 122.26. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 that has been newly entered on Dark Trading Facility is shown which is a buy order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.26 with no MTV. From this set of orders and the NBBO Dark Trading Facility will allocate nothing to the protected quotes of away markets 5000 shares to the securities exchange DBK and nothing for trading within the Dark Trading Facility.

In greater detail Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will send 5000 shares to the securities exchange DBK at 122.26 ISO IOC. Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will execute a trade of 5000 shares with Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 at 122.26. There will be nothing in residual shares to return to the Dark Trading Facility for filling the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 or for routing to the away markets to fill the PHLX Order.

In situations in which contra side liquidity in the Dark Trading Facility system database is priced better than the price quoted on the securities exchange DBK a newly entered Dark Trading Facility order will execute against the contra side liquidity in the Dark Trading Facility system database in price time priority to the fullest extent possible then it would be sent to the securities exchange DBX. Even further a newly entered Dark Trading Facility order may be executed in the Dark Trading Facility without interacting with the securities exchange DBK when the price of the Dark Trading Facility Order is within the NBBO and at a price that is better than all of the orders for that security on the securities exchange DBK. Referring to a description of the operation of the Dark Trading Facility when the Dark Trading Facility has the best price will be provided.

Referring to generally at an exemplary NBBO and a set of order information is provided for describing the operation of the Dark Trading Facility when the Dark Trading Facility has the best price. At the NBBO is shown for a particular security. According to the NBBO the national best bid NBB is 122.20 on the ISE for 5000 shares and the national best offer NBO is 122.26 on the PHLX for 5000 shares. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.25 with no MTV is shown. At Securities Exchange DBK Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.27 is shown. At the PHLX Order is shown which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.26. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 that is a newly entered order on Dark Trading Facility is shown which is a buy order for 100 000 shares at a price of 122.25 with no MTV. From this set of orders and the NBBO Dark Trading Facility will allocate nothing to the protected quotes of away markets nothing to the securities exchange DBK and 5000 shares will be traded within the Dark Trading Facility.

In detail Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will trade 5000 shares within Dark Trading Facility to fill Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 at 122.25. The remaining 95 000 shares will be posted in the Dark Trading Facility system database at 122.25 for later trading or cancellation if IOC . Because the prices for the securities exchange DBK and away markets shares are higher the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will not trade against these share amounts.

In the operation of Dark Trading Facility when two Dark Trading Facility orders are marketable against each other and there is no marketable contra side liquidity on the securities exchange DBK or on other away markets and the prices cross the Dark Trading Facility will calculate the price for execution of the trade at the price nearest to or at the midpoint of the NBBO. Referring to examples of crossing orders will be described.

Referring to generally at an exemplary NBBO and representative orders are provided for describing the operation of the Dark Trading Facility when orders cross in the Dark Trading Facility. At the NBBO is shown for a particular security. According to the NBBO the national best bid NBB is 20.00 on the PHLX and the national best offer NBO is 20.05 on the ISE. The NBBO midpoint is 20.025. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 which is a buy order for 50 000 shares at a price of 20.02 with a MTV of 20 000 shares is shown. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 is shown which is a sell order for 100 000 shares at a price of 20.00 with a MTV of 20 000 shares. As is seen the buy and sell prices of these orders cross and are in the NBBO range. Therefore from this set of orders and the NBBO Dark Trading Facility will execute a trade with an execution price of 20.02 which is the price closest to the NBBO midpoint.

Referring to generally at an exemplary NBBO and representative orders are provided for describing another example of NBBO midpoint executions when orders cross in the Dark Trading Facility. At the NBBO is shown for a particular security. According to the NBBO the national best bid NBB is 122.20 on the ISE for 5000 shares and the national best offer NBO is 122.26 on the PHLX for 10 000 shares. The NBBI midpoint is 122.23. At Securities Exchange DBK Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.26 is shown. At Securities Exchange DBK Order No. 2 is shown which is a buy order for 5000 shares at a price of 122.20. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 which is a sell order for 75 000 shares at a price of 122.22 with a MTV of 50 000 shares is shown. At Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 is shown which is a buy order for 100 000 shares at a price of 122.26 with a MTV of 50 000 shares Day. From this set of orders and the NBBO Dark Trading Facility will allocate 25 000 shares to securities exchange DBK 75 000 shares within the Dark Trading Facility since the MTVs of Dark Trading Facility Order Nos. 1 and 2 will have been triggered and nothing will be sent to the away markets.

Reviewing this allocation in greater detail Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will send 25 000 shares to securities exchange DBK at 122.26. Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will execute a trade of 75 000 shares within Dark Trading Facility to fill Dark Trading Facility Order No. 1 at 122.23 the NBBO midpoint. Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will execute a trade with Securities Exchange DBK Order No. 1 for 5000 shares at 122.26. The unfilled balance of 20 000 shares of the Dark Trading Facility Order No. 2 will be posted in the Dark Trading Facility at 122.26 with a new MTV of 20 000 shares.

There can be circumstances in which a new order enters the security exchange market that will change the NBBO. Preferably Dark Trading Facility will process and execute these new orders in the same sequence as described previously until the close of the regular trading session of the securities exchange. At this time all remaining orders will be canceled back to the Training Facility users.

Preferably the Dark Trading Facility will accept orders with round lots or PRLs and reject odd lot orders. However it is understood that the Dark Trading Facility could be configured to accept odd lots and still be within the scope of the present invention.

Dark Trading Facility is preferably configured not to operate with regard to pricing increments smaller than 0.01 if the bid or offer or order is priced equal to or greater than 1.00 per share. Further preferably Dark Trading Facility will not be configured to operate with regard to increments smaller than 0.0001 if the bid or offer or orders is priced less than 1.00 per share. However it is understood by one skilled in the art that Dark Trading Facility can be configured to operate without these constraints and still be within the scope of the present invention.

Preferably Dark Trading Facility will not accept Dark Trading Facility taking orders priced below 1.00. Moreover preferably Dark Trading Facility execution prices will be calculated to only the third decimal when the NBBO is an odd penny spread and the trade price is greater than 1.00. Again however it is understood by one skilled in the art that Dark Trading Facility can be configured to operate without these constraints and still be within the scope of the present invention.

It is understood that that the details of each Dark Trading Facility trade may be automatically matched and compared by the security exchange and will be submitted for clearing and settlement e.g. on a lock in basis. The method of clearing and settlement may be conventional except with respect to the anonymous treatment of trades in the Dark Trading Facility. As such the Dark Trading Facility transaction reports preferably will indicate the details of the transaction but not disclose the contra party s or the clearing firm s identity.

The terms and expressions which are used herein are used as terms of expression and not of limitation. And there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding the equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof it being recognized that various modifications are possible in the scope of the invention.

