---

title: System and method for using a visual password scheme
abstract: A system and method for inputting a password. The system and method operates to associate unique non-descriptive graphical features with unique text-based characters. The system and method operates to receive in sequence, a plurality of text-based characters. The system and method operates to display in sequence, in accordance with a sequence scheme, the non-descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text-based characters. The system and method also operates to process the plurality of text-based characters as the password. In addition, the system and method operates wherein the password, including text-based characters, may be deciphered from both the display of the non-descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text-based characters and the sequence scheme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037993&OS=09037993&RS=09037993
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09037993
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120112
---
This application is a Continuation of patent application Ser. No. 11 070 366 entitled System and Method for Using a Visual Password Scheme filed Mar. 1 2005 assigned to the assignee hereof the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to a password scheme that utilizes graphical features in conjunction with a user password. More particularly the invention relates to the use of graphical features in conjunction with a user password to promote password recollection.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there currently exist a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs. Typically these smaller and more powerful personal computing devices are severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space amount of input and output capabilities and processing capability may be each limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is often typically desirable for example to maintain a limited quantity and or size of input keys and other user input mechanisms residing on such personal computing devices. Such limited quantity and or size of input mechanisms are generally known to produce poor user input interface functionality.

Some of these personal computing devices utilize application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local computer platform and which are used for example to simplify operation of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. Further some such APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition often such APIs are known to be operationally located between the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device computing functionality is made available to the software applications without requiring the software developer to have the specific computing device system source code. Further some like APIs are known to provide mechanisms for processing user passwords in such a manner as to restrict and control access to such personal computing devices. In some instances such password processing is performed at least in part remotely to the personal computing device.

Examples of such an APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include those currently publicly available versions including versions 3.1 of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. BREW is sometimes described as a thin veneer existing over a computing device s typically a wireless cellular phone operating system which among other features provides interfaces to hardware features particularly found on personal computing devices. BREW is further characterized by at least the one advantage of being able to be provided on such personal computing devices at a relatively low cost with respect to demands on such device resources and with respect to the price paid by consumers for devices containing the BREW API. Other features known to be associated with BREW include its end to end software distribution platform that provides a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and computing device consumers. At least one such currently available end to end software distribution platform includes logic distributed over a server client architecture where the server performs for example billing security and application distribution functionality and the client performs for example application execution security and user interface functionality.

Regarding providing mechanisms for processing user passwords in such a manner as to restrict and control access to such personal computing devices to only authorized users including the processing of passwords remotely to such personal computing devices many systems typically achieve such restricted access in part by recording keystrokes received through an input device or mechanism. In one example each key represents a single potential component for use in a multi component password scheme. Here a device with 10 keys is capable of as many unique passwords as there are combinations of 10 keys allows. However in another embodiment where such embodiment includes the additional functionality of recognizing of the simultaneous pressing of a multiple keys such as the use of a shift key along with one of the ten keys to essentially expand the 10 keys functionality into a 20 key functionality where each key in essence has two potential values. Here the number of possible unique keys is expanded from the number of available unique passwords available with 10 keys to the expanded number of available unique passwords available with the 20 keys. Each of such proposed designs including the 10 or the 20 key designs have the common feature of having the available number of components being limited in some manner to the number of input keys available on the device. It should be recognized that as the number of potential key combination increases and or the number of digits used in a password increases so increases the problems associated with password recognition as experienced by users of such devices.

There currently exists other password mechanisms that provide relatively robust password input capabilities where for example such mechanisms allow for the entry of a extensive range of ASCII characters. One such password mechanism includes the use of multitap functionality. With multitap a key has the potential of representing multiple values where for example a key may have displayed on its surface the values or components 2 abc. Here the user can operate the personal computing device by pressing the 2 abc key one or more times to select the desired letter or number. For example the 2 key is pressed once for the letter a twice for b three times for c and four times for the number 2 . It is not uncommon for such multitap password mechanisms to also include functionality that provides for detecting a user s attempt to input consecutive letters on the same key.

An example is the word no because both n and o are on the 6 key 6 nmo a user must press the 6 key two times to enter the letter n wait for the system to timeout and then press the 6 key three more to enter the letter o. Another known approach is to press a special key to skip the timeout thus allowing direct entry of the next character using the same key. Many of the multitap methods are known to be widely used in hand held devices. However multitap method is typically viewed to be a slow and inefficient way to enter text and is generally known to be disliked by users. Here in addition to the difficulties raised by adding additional characters numbers etc. that can make up any particular digit component of a password namely the increased number of potential digit combinations also increases the difficulty for the user to remember which combination was recorded as any particular password there is also introduced the difficulties and drawbacks of using a multitap method that requires slow and numerous key presses to achieve a relatively small length password combination.

A variety of modern password schemes also introduce factors that further increase the likelihood that users will be unable to recall their passwords. For example many modern password schemes require users to change their passwords periodically where users are forced to re memorize new passwords for each of such password changes. Such frequent changes in passwords increase the likelihood that such users will not remember such newly changed passwords. Further in is also currently not uncommon for users to have multiple passwords across many systems also increasing the likelihood that a user may not recall one or more passwords for any one or more particular systems.

At least one known approach to assist users in their ability to remember lengthy passwords is the use of password schemes based on graphics based passwords rather than text based passwords. In one known system a graphical password scheme operates to display a scene on a devices screen where the user using a stylus connects one or more of the objects displayed on the screen where it is the unique pattern generated by the user connection of the objects that is recorded as the password. Such systems provide the benefit of utilizing a graphics based password which are arguably easier for users to recall than text based password but such systems have the limitations including being only graphically based i.e. cannot be entered in a text based form where such limitations include requiring the use of an interactive screen the use of a relatively high resolution screen known to be not typically suitable for resource constrained devices the display objects on a graphical display that are not part of the password i.e. those objects displayed on the screen but not otherwise used by the user when connections are drawn between other objects and the problem of having such graphical passwords stolen by nearby individuals viewing the screen as the password is displayed or entered.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide password schemes for computing devices that includes features that provide for the use of graphical features of passwords in a manner that would assist the recollection of passwords. It would also be advantageous to provide a new system that does not require an exclusive choice be made between graphical based passwords and text based passwords. In addition it would also be advantageous to provide graphically enabled password schemes that do not require the use of interactive screens for the inputting of such passwords. It would also be advantageous to provide graphically enabled password schemes that do not require the use of high resolution screens. It would also be advantageous to provide graphically enabled password schemes that limit the items displayed on a screen to those items that directly correspond to parts or components of the password. An additional advantage would be to provide a password scheme that provides a graphical mode in conjunction with an ability to prevent shoulder surfing of passwords.

Embodiments disclosed herein address the above stated needs including for example one or more embodiments in which methods software and apparatus are used to provide a mechanism to authenticate the user via a strong password. At least one embodiment includes associating unique non descriptive graphical features with unique text based characters. Such embodiment also includes receiving in sequence a plurality of text based characters. Such embodiment also includes displaying in sequence in accordance with a sequence scheme the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters. The embodiment operates such that wherein the password including text based characters may be deciphered from both the display of the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters and the sequence scheme.

At least one embodiment includes logic configured to associate unique non descriptive graphical features with unique text based characters. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to receive in sequence a plurality of text based characters. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to display in sequence in accordance with a sequence scheme the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters. The embodiment also includes logic configured to process the plurality of text based characters as the password. Further the embodiment operates wherein the password including text based characters may be deciphered from both the display of the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters and the sequence scheme.

At least one embodiment includes code operable to associate unique non descriptive graphical features with unique text based characters. Such embodiment also includes code operable to receive in sequence a plurality of text based characters. The embodiment also includes code operable to display in sequence in accordance with a sequence scheme the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters. The embodiment also includes code operable to process the plurality of text based characters as the password. Further the embodiment operates wherein the password including text based characters may be deciphered from both the display of the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters and the sequence scheme.

At least one embodiment includes means for associating unique non descriptive graphical features with unique text based characters. Such embodiment also includes means for receiving in sequence a plurality of text based characters. Such embodiment also includes means for displaying in sequence in accordance with a sequence scheme the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters. In addition the embodiment also includes means for processing the plurality of text based characters as the password. In addition such embodiment operates wherein the password including text based characters may be deciphered from both the display of the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters and the sequence scheme.

At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the use of password schemes that provide for the use of graphical password features that assist in the recollection of passwords. Another advantage is the option to combine graphical and text based password schemes. In addition another advantage includes the providing of a graphically enabled password scheme that does not require the use of interactive screens for the inputting of passwords. Another advantage includes the providing of a graphically enabled password scheme that does not require the use of high resolution screens. Another advantage of at least one embodiment is to provide a graphically enabled password schemes that limits the items displayed on a screen to those items that directly correspond to parts or components of the password. An additional advantage of at least one embodiment is to provide a password scheme that provides a graphical mode in conjunction with text based character mode in a manner that reduces the threat of shoulder surfing of passwords.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein could be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Further the embodiments described herein can additionally be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the claimed subject matter may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of such claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform a certain action or code operable to perform the described action.

The following detailed description describes methods systems software and apparatus to provide non descriptive graphical features in conjunction with text based password schemes. In at least one embodiment a personal computing device operates to receive in sequence a plurality of text based characters and in response operates to display in sequence and in accordance with a sequence scheme the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters. In such embodiment the password including text based characters may be deciphered using a minimum of two items one item being the display of the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters and the second item being the sequence scheme used to generate the display.

In one or more embodiments the system used to provide non descriptive graphical features in conjunction with text based password schemes operates in conjunction with a runtime environment API executing on the personal computing device. One such runtime environment API is what is to be a new version of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. In at least one embodiment in the following description the system used to provide non descriptive graphical features in conjunction with text based password schemes is implemented on a personal computing device executing a runtime environment API such as a newly contemplated not publicly available version of the BREW software platform. However one or more embodiments of the system used to provide non descriptive graphical features in conjunction with text based password schemes are suitable for use with other types of runtime environments APIs that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless client communication devices.

The application download server is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There is a second server and a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network . There is preferably also at least one stored application database that holds the software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices . Different embodiments are contemplated that locate logic to perform a portion of operations associated with providing non descriptive graphical features in conjunction with text based password schemes at any one or more of the application download server second server and stand alone server .

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the illustration of the components of the wireless network and interrelation between such elements. As shown the system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless client communication devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored applications database along with any other servers such as server which are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network.

The carrier network operates to control messages sent as data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS operates to transfer voice information. The MSC is connected to multiple base stations BTS . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and is typically connected to the POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art.

The wireless device here a personal computing device such as cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . In some embodiments such software applications are loaded onto the wireless device by other means than from being loaded from the application download server. The computer platform includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device and is not normally upgradeable. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The API also includes a client password module containing logic configured to provide non descriptive graphical features in conjunction with a text based password scheme. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

The wireless client communication device such as cellular telephone accordingly downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like from the application download server and holds the application on the local database when not in use and uploads stored resident applications on the local database to memory for execution on the API when so desired by the user. Further the communications over the wireless network are performed in a secure manner at least in part because of the operation of the client password module where non descriptive graphical features are used in conjunction with text based password schemes. The present inventive system and method provides the use of non descriptive graphical features in conjunction with a text based password scheme as is further described herein.

As shown the personal computing device includes a display and input mechanisms . The display further includes a group of graphical features a pallet of potential graphical features and their associated text based counterparts and a hidden password display . The group of graphical features includes individual graphical features that individually correspond to individual text based characters of a password and where such individual graphic features together form an overall image made up of the sum of the graphical features . Although in the displayed embodiment the range of graphical features include the limited set of possible graphical features and and are selected from the pallet of potential graphic features other embodiments provide for altogether different graphical features and other embodiments also provide for graphical features that are more or less numerous than that shown in the figure and further other such embodiments provide for graphical features that correspond to text based characters other than those shown in the embodiment e.g. shown is 0 9 .

The pallet of potential graphical features includes different graphical features for a corresponding text based character. For example graphical feature pallet item is a graphical representation that resembles the forward slash text based character within a square. Here in this example the corresponding or associated text based character is the number 7. As shown here and according to rules of the corresponding sequence scheme each of the graphical features contain a continuous segment that begins at a corner of a square and ends at another corner of the same square or such graphical feature is blank or has no segment therein. The sequence scheme for the current embodiment further contains the following rules the graphical features that make up the overall display include a 3.times.3 matrix of squares. Each square can have its color chosen the color of pen used for the segments in the graphical features can be selectively chosen the contents of the overall display are provided in the following sequence the color is chosen from a pallet containing individual graphical features that allow a selection from a variety of background colors that correspond to an associated text based character next the pen color is chosen from a pallet containing individual graphical features that allow a selection from a variety of pen colors that also correspond to an associated text based character next beginning at the upper left hand corner square and moving left to right row by row e.g. continuing with the sequence and each of the graphical features are populated with the contents of one of the graphical features and from the pallet . Further the sequence scheme further includes the rule that the overall display of the graphical features must include an outline of an image as provided by the continuous segments such that an overall image is shown that is fully bounded.

As reflected in the current embodiment the graphical features as shown in the overall display reflect the satisfaction of the rules of the described sequence scheme wherein the following inputs were received after a display showing a series of colors as background choices in a corresponding pallet input was received selecting a background color of light green where light green was associated with the number 4 next after a display showing a series of colors as pen color choices in a corresponding pallet input was received selecting a pen color of black where black was associated with the number 1 next after a display showing the series of continuous segment patterns as reflected in the pallet shown as having the graphical features and as shown in the figure input was received first selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 7 input was received next selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 1 input was received next selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 8 input was received next selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 4 input was received next selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 0 input was received next selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 5 input was received next selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 8 input was received next selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 3 finally input was received associated with right hand corner square selecting the graphical feature associated with the text based character 7. As each consecutive password component or digit was chosen an additional asterisk was displayed in the hidden password display until an eleven digit password was completed. From left to right the contents of the password corresponding to the hidden password display according to the overall graphical features and according to the sequence scheme of the present embodiment is as follows 41718405837. 

Although the present embodiment shows the use of a sequence scheme that includes the use of a matrix of squares that are populated with continuous segments in a right to left top to bottom scheme where a resulting bounded image is required other sequence schemes are completely different than such scheme. There are as many possible sequence schemes as there picture contents different methods of assembling sub graphical features into an overall graphical display and as many other rules and procedures that are conceivable that relate to the building of an overall graphical display. However because so many different possible sequence schemes and their associated rules are possible and because different such sequence schemes can be applied to an identical graphical feature and result in different corresponding text based passwords it is typical that such systems operation includes that both an overall graphic display be known as well as the specific corresponding sequence scheme before such combination is useful to a user in recalling a text based password based on an overall graphics display. For example with regard to the present figure even if one knew of the text based characters that were associated with each of the graphical features without the sequence scheme one would not know the sequence such text based characters should be assembled under.

One advantage of the claimed subject matter herein is to assist users in remembering their passwords by providing a graphical feature that corresponds to a text based password. Here the advantages include all the advantages with using text based passwords such as all the known means of inputting and handling such text based passwords as well as the advantages provided by the function that graphics play in allowing users to recall associated passwords. Another advantage over pure graphics based schemes besides those of not requiring touch based screens or high resolution schemes is that because there is a corresponding text based password associated with a graphical feature that such information can be easily provided via a voice communication from a technical support representative as to the contents of the password i.e. its easier to say 349 rather than moon in the right hand corner with a brown horse. 

The input received as described above with respect to the current figure is received through the one or more input keys found in the input mechanism . Although the present embodiment is specifically described as utilizing numeric input from particular keys one or more embodiments may interpret any particular input key or input key combinations as input representing a text based character. The device as shown has twenty two different individual keys and . Other embodiments utilize more or less input keys and provide for the use of multiple key combinations in identifying associated text based characters and displaying associated individual graphical features.

More specifically the personal computing device includes a pallet of potential graphical features and their associated text based counterparts. The group of graphical features see includes individual graphical features that individually correspond to individual text based characters of a password and where such individual graphic features together form an overall image including the graphical features selected from the pallet of potential graphical features . As shown the graphical feature contained in pallet item represents an elongated head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a full round head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a wide oblong head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a long rectangular head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a full rectangular head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing another wide oblong head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a widening head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a narrowing head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a narrow jaw head shape. Pallet item contains a graphical feature representing a pointed chin shape. Although in the displayed embodiment the pallet of potential graphical features include the limited set of possible graphical features and other embodiments provide for altogether different graphical features and other embodiments also provide for graphical features that are more or less numerous than that shown in the figure and further other such embodiments provide for graphical features that correspond to text based characters other than those shown in the embodiment e.g. shown is 0 9 .

As shown in the exemplary embodiment the personal computing device includes memory network I O interface PC device I O interface processor and bus . Although the memory is shown as RAM memory other embodiments include such memory as all known types of memory that are known to provide for the storing of configured logic. In addition although memory is shown as one contiguous unit of one type of memory other embodiments use multiple locations and multiple types of memory as memory . The network I O interface provides input and output to devices coupled to the network via the bus . The PC Device I O interface provides input and output to the personal computing device . The processor operates on instructions and data provided via the bus .

Located in memory is logic configured to associate unique non descriptive graphical features with unique text based characters and logic configured to receive in sequence logic configured to display in sequence in accordance with a sequence scheme the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters and logic configured to process the plurality of text based characters as the password. In one embodiment such processing of the plurality of text based characters includes the storing of such text based characters either locally or remotely. In another embodiment such processing includes sending the text based characters as the password across the network for use in remote authentication. In yet another embodiment the text based characters are further processed such as via a hash algorithm before then sent across the network for authentication and or further processing. In addition the memory further includes logic wherein the password including text based characters may be deciphered from both the display of the non descriptive graphical features associated with the plurality of text based characters and the sequence scheme.

At least one embodiment includes the optional logic wherein the non descriptive graphical features include at least one of the following background color pen color and pattern. In addition at least one embodiment includes optional logic wherein the sequence scheme includes the following sequence background color pen color and a series of figure insertions using a 3.times.3 component grid in a clockwise movement. Further in at least one embodiment logic is included wherein the non descriptive graphical features represent different facial features of a human face and wherein the sequence scheme includes displaying the non descriptive graphical figures in a predetermined order

In at least one embodiment an optional step is provided wherein the non descriptive graphical features include at least one of the following background color pen color and pattern. In at least one embodiment an optional step is provided wherein the sequence scheme includes the following sequence background color pen color and a series of figure insertions using a 3.times.3 component grid such that the figure insertions combine to display an object that is continuous and fully bounded.

Those of ordinary skill in the art would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory PROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a computing device or user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device or user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person of ordinary skill in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

