---

title: Systems and methods for managing fleet services
abstract: Systems and methods are described for managing fleet services. In an example, a vehicle selected from a plurality of vehicles presented in the user interface is received. A selected vehicle insurance for the vehicle is then received. A total cost for a lease of the vehicle and vehicle insurance associated with the selected vehicle insurance is determined. A lease of the vehicle and corresponding vehicle insurance is provided by the lessor. Other systems and methods are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08712909&OS=08712909&RS=08712909
owner: United Services Automobile Association
number: 08712909
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120223
---
This patent application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 445 949 entitled Systems and Methods for Managing Fleet Services filed on Feb. 23 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Various embodiments described herein relate generally to computer systems and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for managing fleet services.

Automobile purchases may be envisioned as having a lifecycle. For example a buyer may first research potential purchases then identify candidates and finally arrive at a purchase decision. After purchase of the vehicle other portions of the lifecycle develop such as insurance maintenance and eventual disposal of the vehicle such as by way of sale. During each phase many decision points are available to the potential purchaser and eventual owner. There is a need to streamline the processes involved in a vehicle s lifecycle.

One mechanism for streamlining the processes involved in a vehicle s lifecycle is to integrate vehicle acquisition services with other vehicle related services such as insurance financial planning vehicle maintenance and vehicle disposal.

The comprehensive financial institution may have relationships with other business entities such as one or more automobile dealers A B in a dealer network . In addition the comprehensive financial institution may have relationships with a vehicle manufacturer a vehicle repair shop and a vehicle rental agency . It is understood that while the description discusses entities in the singular e.g. a vehicle manufacturer in some examples the number may vary and represent multiple entities of the same or similar type e.g. several vehicle manufacturers . Thus the figures are meant to be illustrative and not restrictive.

The comprehensive financial institution may also manage a fleet of vehicles and offer fleet services to customers. Fleet services generally refer to systems and processes for managing a fleet of vehicles. Fleet services may be administered with the aid of software known as fleet management software. Fleet management software is used to gather store monitor and process data related to vehicles in the fleet. Fleet management software may be configured to interface with external data sources such as onboard vehicle systems fuel pumps fuel stations motor vehicle databases repair stations dealers roadside transponders parking meters global positioning systems GPS and other devices. Fleet management software may also be configured to interface with internal data sources such as customer databases inventory databases financial systems insurance claims databases and other operations databases.

In an embodiment the comprehensive financial institution leases vehicles from the fleet of vehicles . A lease has a lifecycle which will be used as a framework for the next portion of this discussion. While the discussion uses the terms familiar to a lease it is understood that rental agreements are encompassed by this disclosure.

A lease generally refers to a contract between a lessee and a lessor. The lessor is the owner of the property and allows the lessee the right to use the property. The lease contract includes a term and a price. Most leases are for a fixed term although indefinite leases are also considered within the scope of this disclosure. Indefinite leases include at will leases leases with a conditional duration and leases with automatically renewable periods. Lease origination refers to the beginning of a lease term.

A person interested in obtaining a new vehicle may consider purchasing versus leasing. In an example the person may be a member of or associated with a comprehensive financial institution or other institution offering fleet services. The person may enter the lease process in one of several ways.

One way that the person may enter into a lease opportunity is with guidance from the comprehensive financial institution . In an embodiment the comprehensive financial institution includes a division for financial planning. The person may be a client of the financial planning division of the comprehensive financial institution . When the person experiences a life event such as a birth of a child the comprehensive financial institution may be informed. For example the person may contact the comprehensive financial institution to establish a savings plan for the new child adjust retirement plans or draft a will. In response to the contact from the person the comprehensive financial institution may initiate an analysis of the person s situation and recommend acquiring disposing or otherwise modifying a vehicle for use by the person.

Another way that the person may enter into a lease opportunity is simply by contacting the comprehensive financial institution or by being contacted by the comprehensive financial institution such as by way of advertising and marketing. In an embodiment the comprehensive financial institution restricts leasing services to people who are existing members of the comprehensive financial institution or those that qualify to be members. In another embodiment the comprehensive financial institution provides leasing services to the general public without regard to a membership with the comprehensive financial institution .

In an embodiment the comprehensive financial institution may refer the person to a vehicle dealer such as automobile dealer A or B in the dealer network where the person may evaluate different vehicles and negotiate prices. In an embodiment because of an existing relationship between the comprehensive financial institution and the dealer network the person may be provided with services such as pre negotiated prices no cost packages or other attractive vehicle options.

In an embodiment the dealer network acts as a vehicle pool for the comprehensive financial institution s fleet of vehicles . A person who establishes a lease with the comprehensive financial institution may be referred to an automobile dealer where the person may receive the newly leased vehicle. When a lease expires or is otherwise terminated the lessee may be instructed to return the off lease vehicle to an automobile dealer . Automobile dealers in the dealer network may have agreements with the comprehensive financial institution for these services. For example when a person enters a lease with the comprehensive financial institution the comprehensive financial institution may purchase a vehicle from an automobile dealer and instruct the person to receive the vehicle. After the lease is expired when the person returns the vehicle to an automobile dealer the comprehensive financial institution may sell the vehicle to the automobile dealer behind the scenes. In this way the person leasing the vehicle is provided with conveniently located service and the comprehensive financial institution owns the vehicles for the term of the lease thereby simplifying the lessor lessee relationship. In addition agreements may be arranged between the comprehensive financial institution and the automobile dealer such that the purchase and later sale are at a mutually beneficial price.

In an embodiment the person is provided an electronic forum to browse vehicles and corresponding offers. The electronic forum may be an online forum such as a website or other network accessible area. Dealers from the dealer network may advertise within the electronic forum such as by providing inventory offers and other information of products and services. In addition the comprehensive financial institution may provide information from vehicle manufacturers to assist the person in making a purchasing or leasing decision.

Once the person has decided to lease a vehicle from the comprehensive financial institution the person may be presented with various lease structures or pricing. One example lease structure is a fixed price model. A fixed price model may include a fixed price per payment period e.g. monthly for the term of a lease. The fixed price may be for one or more vehicle related products in addition to the lease costs such as insurance maintenance repairs fuel costs and the like. A lease using a fixed price structure provides for easier financial planning for both the comprehensive financial institution and the lessee.

One or more elements of a fixed price package may be offered in various tiers. For example insurance may be offered with a low coverage tier a medium coverage tier and a full coverage tier. As another example a maintenance plan may be offered in multiple tiers. Similarly the lease vehicle may be associated with a tier.

In an embodiment tiers are established based on a vehicle model and price range. For example Tier 1 may be for inexpensive sedans Tier 2 may be for moderately expensive sedans and Tier 3 may be for expensive sedans. Tier 1 may include vehicles such as the Ford Fiesta the Hyundai Elantra and the Toyota Yaris Tier 2 may include vehicles such as the Hyundai Sonata the Toyota Camry and the Volkswagen Jetta and Tier 3 may include vehicles such as the Mercedes Benz E Class the Cadillac DTS and the Lexus GS 350. The comprehensive financial institution may offer a lease for any vehicle in a particular tier at a common price for that tier. For example a buyer may choose between the Toyota Camry and the Volkswagen Jetta with each having a total monthly cost of 225 which may include insurance fuel and maintenance.

Tiers may also be based on the type of vehicle such as a high efficiency vehicle electric vehicle or hybrid vehicle. A comprehensive financial institution that offers a fleet of vehicles for lease may provide specialty vehicles e.g. electric vehicles to areas that do not usually have such vehicles available in the local market. As an example in Minnesota it is harder to find a rear wheel driven sports sedan when there is an all wheel option available. Manufacturers and dealers supply all wheel vehicles to the northern regions with the understanding that people may prefer all wheel drive especially in the winter months. Those that want a rear wheel drive vehicle may have to order one from the factory or go outside of the region to purchase one. With a fleet of vehicles available the buyer may be given more options and have access to vehicle that may be difficult to obtain normally.

Overall the fixed price may be based on the selected tiers of each component in a package the tiers being established by the comprehensive financial institution . For example a person may select Tier 1 of vehicles Tier 3 of maintenance and Tier 2 of insurance resulting in a calculated fixed price of 300 a month. Choosing other combinations of tiers would result in a different fixed monthly or other periodic price.

In an embodiment the person is able to research lease options online. The person may be presented with a single price option e.g. fixed price and be able to compare the single price option with cost of each component. For example a person may choose a single price package for a midsize coupe in a moderately expensive category. The single price package may include other products such as insurance and a maintenance contract e.g. covering all repair and maintenance for the term of the lease . A user interface may be provided that breaks out the costs of each component e.g. lease insurance and maintenance . The user interface may be further configured to display the cost of each product if purchased separately e.g. a la carte . Further the user interface may be configured to allow the user to choose which products to include and then provide a single price for the selected products.

In an embodiment the comprehensive financial institution may enable vehicle telematics at the origination of the lease. Telemetric data such as vehicle speed travel distance vehicle maintenance fuel use and other data is useful for various reasons including configuring insurance risks and costs enabling the comprehensive financial institution to provide maintenance recommendations and reminders or inventory control. In an embodiment the comprehensive financial institution may offer a reduction in cost to the lessee such as a lower insurance premium in exchange for enabling the vehicle telematics. In another embodiment because the lessor owns the vehicle the lessor has the right to modify the vehicle to design. Thus the lessor may enable vehicle telematics and inform potential lessees of the data being collected such that the lessee enters into the lease with full disclosure.

Several types of events may occur during a lease. Events may be related to the lessee the lessor or the vehicle. Events related to the lessee include various life events such as the birth of a child marriage divorce job loss or receiving an inheritance. Each of these life events may have an impact on whether the lessee can continue an existing lease. In an embodiment the comprehensive financial institution may provide a lease that is reconfigurable during the lease term. For example when a life event occurs the lessee may be allowed to alter the vehicle tier of the lease.

As an illustrative example a lessee Dave who is married to Diane is involved in an accident at work and is placed on disability. During disability Dave cannot afford to maintain an existing lease of a Mercedes Benz a Tier 3 vehicle. To avoid having to default on the lease Dave is able to adjust the existing lease by moving to Tier 1 vehicle such as a Ford Fiesta . Depending on the lease terms Dave may be considered to have terminated the existing lease early and originated a new lease with the Ford . Alternatively Dave may be adjusting the existing lease terms of price by way of the selected vehicle tier but maintaining the previously established lease period.

Alternatively instead of changing the vehicle tier Dave may be allowed to reduce or remove products from the pricing package. For example by reducing the amount of insurance coverage thereby reducing the cost of insurance Dave may be able to continue to use a Tier 3 vehicle. Such changes may be temporary e.g. during the time that Dave is on disability or permanent e.g. until the end of the lease term or until Dave requests another change to the lease .

Another life event that involves the lessee is when a dependent is added to an auto insurance policy. This is also a life event for the dependent but for the purposes of the lease the event is pertinent to the lessee. The lease may provide options for this type of event. For example the lease may be drawn up to allow a lessee to adjust the products in a lease package e.g. remove maintenance or adjust a vehicle tier e.g. obtain a vehicle at a lower tier in order to maintain approximately the same cost as before the new driver is added. Another option is to front load the lease so that the payment and vehicle tier do not change when the new driver is added. In effect the lessee may overpay for a duration of a lease with the knowledge that after a child is added to the insurance policy the overpayment will account for some of the increase due to the added participant resulting in a flat payment over time. Another option is to adjust the lease based on new costs. In this case when a new driver is added the package cost may increase and the lessee is committed to the new package cost to maintain the same level of service as before the driver was added. In this situation a reminder may be provided to the lessee from the comprehensive financial institution .

Some leases may allow a lessee to change lease terms during the lease on a voluntarily basis that is without having experienced a life event. For example the lessee may exchange one car in a tier for another car in the same tier. Depending on the terms of the lease this may be performed at any time during the lease but may be constrained by occurrences or timing e.g. only once a year or only for a maximum of two times during the term of the lease . Other lease modifications may be available to the lessee at will such as changing the vehicle tier of the lease or modifying the products accompanying the lease.

In an example situation a lessee may be involved in an insurable loss incident e.g. an accident theft or vandalism . The comprehensive financial institution may provide benefits to such a lessee by offering to replace the damaged or stolen vehicle with another vehicle from the appropriate tier. The lessee may be directed to a local automobile dealer to take possession of a replacement vehicle. Similar services may be offered to lessees in other situations for example when a vehicle breaks down or otherwise malfunctions during operation when the vehicle runs out of gas or other situations when a vehicle is inoperable or unavailable.

A lessee may have a financial account with the comprehensive financial institution. For example the lessee may have a checking account savings account retirement account or a brokerage account with the comprehensive financial institution. At some point the comprehensive financial institution may provide a recommendation to modify the lease based on information related to one or more accounts. For example during an annual retirement review the comprehensive financial institution may suggest or recommend the lessee seek to reduce costs in the lease based on a retirement strategy. The comprehensive financial institution may suggest or recommend changing a vehicle tier reducing the amount of insurance coverage or reducing or eliminating a maintenance contract as examples. As another example the comprehensive financial institution may monitor a savings account balance and based on a reduced balance provide similar recommendations to the lessee. As yet another example based on a brokerage account balance or forecasted earnings the comprehensive financial institution may market or advertise a vehicle lease upgrade such as by upgrading the vehicle in a particular tier upgrading a vehicle tier or increasing the amount of insurance coverage.

At termination of the lease the lessee may be presented with options similar to those found with conventional leases such as a purchase option a renewal option or a final termination option.

The network may include local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN wireless networks e.g. 802.11 or cellular network the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network ad hoc networks personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth or other combinations or permutations of network protocols and network types. The network may include a single local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or combinations of LANs or WANs such as the Internet. The various devices coupled to the network may be coupled to the network via one or more wired or wireless connections.

The web server may communicate with the file server to publish or serve files stored on the file server . The web server may also communicate or interface with the application server to enable web based presentation of information. For example the application server may consist of scripts applications or library files that provide primary or auxiliary functionality to the web server e.g. multimedia file transfer or dynamic interface functions . In addition the application server may also provide some or the entire interface for the web server to communicate with one or more of the other servers in the financial institution system e.g. the messaging server or the database management server . The web server either alone or in conjunction with one or more other computers in the financial institution system may provide a user interface. The user interface may be implemented using a variety of programming languages or programming methods such as HTML HyperText Markup Language VBScript Visual Basic Scripting Edition JavaScript XML Extensible Markup Language XSLT Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Java JFC Java Foundation Classes and Swing an Application Programming Interface for Java .

In an embodiment the client terminal may include a client program to interface with the financial institution system . The client program may include commercial software custom software open source software freeware shareware or other types of software packages. In an embodiment the client program includes a thin client designed to provide query and data manipulation tools for a user of the client terminal . The client program may interact with a server program hosted by for example the application server . Additionally the client program may interface with the database management server .

The operations database may be composed of one or more logical or physical databases. For example the operations database may be viewed as a system of databases that when viewed as a compilation represent an operations database. Sub databases in such a configuration may include a product database a customer database a sales database a marketing database a business rules database a reviews database an insurance claims database and the like. The operations database may be implemented as a relational database a centralized database a distributed database an object oriented database or a flat database in various embodiments.

In an example use of the financial institution system a person may communicate with the financial institution system to inquire about or obtain a vehicle lease. For example a user at the client terminal may interact with the financial institution system via the network . The person may establish a lease for a vehicle and then receive the vehicle for use during the lease.

The lessee may obtain one or more other products or services from the financial institution system . For example the lessee may obtain vehicle insurance a maintenance plan or a full service plan in addition to the lease.

During the term of the lease the financial institution system may obtain information from the lessee such as via the client terminal . In addition the financial institution system may obtain information from the vehicle for example by way of an onboard vehicle telematics system. The financial institution system may analyze gathered information for various reasons such as to ensure that the lessee is using the vehicle in conformance to terms of the lease provide reminders for service or maintenance or adjust insurance rates or coverage based on vehicle telematics.

In an embodiment the plurality of vehicles is offered in a plurality of vehicle tiers. Vehicles may be grouped according to tiers. Tiers may be named or labeled for easier reference. For example tiers may be named generically such as Tier 1 Tier 2 etc. or more descriptively such as economy class midsize sedan or luxury class. Within a tier vehicles may be grouped according to one or more vehicle characteristics including but not limited to vehicle MSRP passenger capacity government classification make model year country of manufacture or source country estimated mileage or other vehicle characteristics.

At a selected vehicle insurance for the vehicle is received. Insurance offerings may be bundled and labeled to make browsing and shopping easier. For example insurance packages may be bundled and labeled as minimum insurance moderate coverage or full coverage. A recommended insurance bundle may be presented to the user based on information provided by the user or previously obtained from the user.

In an embodiment the vehicle insurance is offered in a plurality of insurance tiers. Similar to the vehicle tiers insurance may be designed and sorted into several tiers. Insurance tiers may correlate to the amount of coverage being offered in a particular tier. Insurance tiers may also correlate to the estimated premium or cost. Insurance tiers may also be designed using an insured s characteristics for example insurance tiers for younger drivers mature drivers and senior drivers.

At a total for a cost for a lease of the vehicle and vehicle insurance associated with the selected vehicle is determined. The cost for the lease and the insurance may be discounted to take into account the fact that the lessee is bundling insurance and a vehicle lease from a single provider.

At the lease of the vehicle and the corresponding vehicle insurance is provided. In an embodiment the lease and the corresponding insurance is provided by the lessor. In other words the insurer acts as a lessor and provides the insurance product related insurance services e.g. claims processing and lease services.

In a further embodiment a vehicle maintenance selection for the vehicle is received. Similar to the vehicle tiers and the insurance tiers the maintenance offerings may be presented using a plurality of tiers. Maintenance tiers may be based on various factors including cost coverage term and the like. In an embodiment determining the cost comprises determining the total of the cost for a combination of the lease the vehicle insurance and the selected vehicle maintenance.

In an embodiment the plurality of vehicles are offered in a plurality of vehicle lease tiers and the vehicle insurance is offered in a plurality of insurance tiers and determining the cost is based on a selection of a vehicle tier and a selection of an insurance tier.

In an embodiment the vehicle tiers presented to a user are based on an analysis of the user s characteristics which may be indicative of the user s family situation financial situation or other personal situation. For example a user known to be experiencing financial difficulties e.g. job loss may not be presented higher cost alternatives e.g. the Luxury tier . In addition to or in the alternative the user interface may provide an indication of a recommended vehicle tier. Along with the recommendation an explanation may be provided in the user interface . The explanation may guide the user to a better choice for the current situation the user is experiencing.

In addition to a vehicle tier one or more insurance tiers are presented from which to select. In the example depicted in three insurance tiers are illustrated. A Basic Coverage tier may provide the typical average or popular insurance products. A Minimal Coverage tier may provide the minimal coverage for a jurisdiction. The Minimal Coverage tier may be automatically configured based on the user s personal information. The Full Coverage insurance tier may provide a broad array of coverage for various insurance risks. In addition the Full Coverage tier may provide higher amounts of coverage lower deductibles or broader coverage when compared to the insurance products in the Basic Coverage or Minimal Coverage tiers.

Also illustrated in are estimated costs for each selectable tier. This provides a user a basic understanding of the potential total cost. In the example illustrated the costs are estimates because the user has not provided enough information for a full quote. In an embodiment as a user changes selections of a vehicle tier the costs in the insurance tiers are adjusted to reflect the estimated insurance costs of the newly selected vehicle tier. An estimated total cost is provided in the user interface . In an embodiment the estimated total cost is presented with a disclaimer that the total cost is merely an estimate.

Once the user selects a vehicle tier and an insurance tier of their liking the user may submit the selections using the submit control .

At the vehicle lease is modified. Continuing the example from above the vehicle lease may be modified by changing the vehicle in the lease. The two door sports car may be in the premium tier and the lessee may be given the opportunity to choose another vehicle from the same tier.

In a further embodiment modifying the vehicle lease comprises presenting the lessee with an option to alter a vehicle tier receiving an altered vehicle tier and provisioning a vehicle according to the altered vehicle tier. For example a life event that impacts a person s financial stability may be used as a triggering event to analyze and then recommend a change in one or more aspects of a vehicle lease such as a vehicle tier an insurance tier or a maintenance tier. In one example the lessee is provided an opportunity to alter a vehicle tier to adjust for a change in lifestyle. In another example embodiment the lessee may choose to alter a vehicle tier for any reason.

Other modifications may be made to a vehicle lease in response to detecting or identifying a life event of the lessee. Thus in a further embodiment modifying the vehicle lease comprises modifying the lease term. In an embodiment modifying the lease comprises terminating the vehicle lease.

In a further embodiment the lease is packaged as a lease package with at least one additional product or service component in addition to the vehicle lease and wherein modifying the lease comprises modifying the lease package by adding removing or modifying a component of the lease package. Such changes may include actions such as increasing decreasing adding or removing insurance coverage increasing decreasing adding or removing maintenance and repair coverage or changing vehicle tiers or exchanging a vehicle within a tier.

In a further embodiment the life event is a dependent child obtaining a driver s license and wherein the component of the lease package is a vehicle insurance policy and wherein modifying the lease comprises adding the dependent child to the vehicle insurance policy. In the case where the life event is somewhat predictable such as when a minor dependent will be able to obtain a license the lease costs may be adjusted to provide a consistent cost to the lessee over time. For example to offset the increase in insurance cost at the time the new driver is added to the insurance policy the lease fees may be frontloaded thereby providing a flat or near flat cost to the lessee during the lease period. In another example the lease fees are adjusted once changes are made to the lease.

At a request to exchange the vehicle for a second vehicle in a second vehicle tier is received. The request may be received by a computing system or device. The request may be in response to an event such as an insurance claim. For example when a lessee is in an accident and the vehicle is considered less than a total loss i.e. repairable the lessee may be provided the opportunity to exchange the repaired or repairable vehicle for a different vehicle.

The vehicle exchange may be within a tier or between two tiers. Thus in an embodiment the first vehicle tier is the same as the second vehicle tier. In another embodiment the first vehicle tier is not the same as the second vehicle tier.

At the request to exchange the vehicle is approved. Approval may depend on several factors such as whether the lessee is in good standing whether the vehicle being exchanged is in appropriate condition or under a certain mileage or whether the lease terms provide for the exchange.

At upon approval of the request to exchange the vehicle is exchanged for the second vehicle. Vehicle exchange may be performed at an automobile dealer. This provides convenience to the lessee and may provide benefits to the auto dealer and financial institution as well.

In a further embodiment approving the request comprises determining an allowable number of times the lessee can exchange vehicles and if the request to exchange the vehicle is less than or equal to the allowable number of times the lessee can exchange vehicles then approving the request to exchange the vehicle. The number of allowable times may be a negotiable contract term in the lease. For example a lessee may choose to increase the number of allowable times that a vehicle may be exchanged. This choice may increase the cost of the lease. As another example an exchange may be considered an ancillary service and each time the lessee exchanges a vehicle a cost is assessed and billed to the lessee outside of the regular lease payments.

In a further embodiment determining the allowable number of times comprises determining an allowable number of times the lessee can exchange vehicles in a particular time period and wherein approving the request comprises approving the request when the request to exchange the vehicle is less than or equal to the allowable number of times the lessee can exchange vehicles for the particular time period.

The computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a main memory and a static memory which communicate via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device to interface the computer system to a network .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored a set of instructions or software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described herein. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor and or static memory . The software may further be transmitted or received via the network interface device .

While the computer system is shown with a processor it is understood that the systems and methods described herein may be implemented on one or more processors on one or more computer systems including but not limited to a multi processor computer e.g. two or more separate processors or two or more cores in a single processor a multi computer system e.g. a distributed computing environment or a mixture of single processor and multi processor computers in a distributed fashion.

For the purposes of this specification the term machine readable medium or computer readable medium shall be taken to include any tangible non transitory medium which is capable of storing or encoding a sequence of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one of the methodologies described herein. The terms machine readable medium or computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical or magnetic disks. Further it will be appreciated that the software could be distributed across multiple machines or storage media which may include the machine readable medium.

Method embodiments described herein may be computer implemented. Some embodiments may include computer readable media encoded with a computer program e.g. software which includes instructions operable to cause an electronic device to perform methods of various embodiments. A software implementation or computer implemented method may include microcode assembly language code or a higher level language code which further may include computer readable instructions for performing various methods. The code may form portions of computer program products. Further the code may be tangibly stored on one or more volatile or non volatile computer readable media during execution or at other times. These computer readable media may include but are not limited to hard disks removable magnetic disks removable optical disks e.g. compact disks and digital video disks magnetic cassettes memory cards or sticks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROMs and the like.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. For example one module may be implemented as multiple logical modules or several modules may be implemented as a single logical module. As another example modules labeled as first second and third etc. may be implemented in a single module or in some combination of modules as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

The description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the Detailed Description. The drawings show by way of illustration example embodiments. These embodiments which are also referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice aspects of the inventive subject matter.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or unless otherwise indicated.

As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense e.g. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense e.g. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to. To facilitate understanding like reference numerals have been used where possible to designate like elements common to the figures.

In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

