---

title: Voice-related information in data management systems
abstract: An instruction including one or more criteria is received. It is determined, based at least in part on the criteria, at least voice-related information in storage to which the instruction applies; the voice-related information includes call audio data, a call transcript, and call metadata associated with a call. The instruction is performed at least on the determined voice-related information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798242&OS=08798242&RS=08798242
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08798242
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
Call centers remain an important customer service interface via which companies communicate with potential and existing customers. Current systems for storing and managing voice related information e.g. originating from a call center remain crude. It would be desirable if new techniques associated with storing and or managing voice related information were developed which enable a richer and or a more powerful set of tools and services than currently exist.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Some other examples of voice recorder include a medical transcription call center e.g. where doctors call in to voice recorder and dictate patient notes by telephone a voicemail or message system e.g. where people can leave voicemails for people and a reporting service e.g. where reporters call in to voice recorder to record their reports for later broadcast . These examples are not intended to be limiting.

At voice recorder a recording of the call is made e.g. between a operator and a caller and or between a caller and an automated call interface this audio recording is hereinafter referred to as call audio data and may be in a variety of formats including but not limited to Waveform Audio File Format WAV Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG MPEG 1 or MPEG 2 Audio Layer III MP3 Windows Media Audio WMA or Advanced Audio Coding AAC .

Call audio data is sent from voice recorder to voice server via data network . At voice server the call audio data is transcribed producing a call transcript. Some example voice server providers include Avaya Nortel Networks Inc. GeniSys Global and Cisco. Although this example shows telephone network and data network as separate networks in some embodiments the two networks overlap to some degree. For example a caller may use Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP to contact voice recorder . VoIP uses Internet Protocol IP to perform the call and this is one example in which networks and overlap.

Enterprise content management ECM server provides tools and or services for managing information over an information lifecycle. Documentum by EMC is one example of ECM server . In general ECM server manages information e.g. in the form of or represented as documents over a lifecycle from birth to death. In one example information relates to a purchase and the related information migrates from an inquiry lead state to a purchase state to a fulfilled state. In another example information relates to medical health records and the information progresses through various states or processes related to a patient s medical care. For example tests or procedures can be ordered ordered tests or procedures can be fulfilled reminders can be sent to doctors or nurses if a patient does not follow up and so on.

Management of data over a lifecycle by ECM server is performed using one or more policies not shown which are associated with or applied to the relevant data. A policy may describe or outline how data should be managed what actions should occur and so on e.g. the sequence of purchase states described above or the sequence of medical care states described above . In some embodiments a policy describes at least in part how a company internally manages data as part of doing business e.g. with respect to fulfilling purchases resolving customer issues etc. . In another example a policy may relate to data retention i.e. how long data must be kept this may be dictated by regulatory requirements e.g. as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or for other reasons e.g. because the company promised to its customers to do so because the industry standard is to do so or the information must be retained because of related litigation . Or a policy may relate to privacy or access for example in order to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA Privacy Rule regarding access to electronic medical information. Some other policy examples include policies related to auditing logging duplication or forwarding.

ECM server stores and manages voice related information including call audio data and call transcripts. In this example the call audio data and call transcript are sent to ECM server from voice server via data network . In some other embodiments call audio data and or call transcripts are received from some other source e.g. call audio data is received directly from voice recorder . ECM server processes the call audio data and call transcript determines appropriate policies to apply to the processed call audio data and call transcript and applies those policies. Once processed and stored the processed call audio data and call transcript may be accessed and managed using a graphical or command line interface. Some example user interfaces are described in further detail below.

Voice related information managed by ECM server includes metadata associated with a call hereinafter referred to as call metadata . In some embodiments call metadata includes information associated with the caller such as a customer name or an account number. In some embodiments call metadata includes information associated with properties or characteristics of a call such as a unique service request ID e.g. which uniquely identifies the call from other calls placed by other callers as well as other calls made by that same caller a date and or time at which a call occurred a call length or duration or the voice recorder which received a call e.g. a company may have multiple call center locations and or multiple third party call center providers on contract and a call center identifier may be a physical or logical identifier . In some embodiments call metadata includes information associated with the content or topic of a call such as resolution status e.g. was the call operator able to complete the request of the caller a business unit or division of a company to which a call is directed e.g. a company may have a products business unit and a services business unit for example which provides installation or maintenance services related to the product or competing products or a product or service about which a caller is calling.

In various embodiments various entities generate call metadata. In some embodiments call metadata is generated at voice recorder . In some embodiments during the call the name of the caller or a customer ID may be determined and this information is captured in call metadata and is associated with the related call audio data. In some embodiments call metadata generated at voice recorder includes a service request ID a call center identifier a call date or time a call length a physical or logical identifier of a call center a resolution status a business unit to which the call is directed and or a product or service to which a call is directed.

In some embodiments call metadata e.g. managed by ECM server is generated by voice server . For example voice server may perform voice analysis to select and assign a tag or descriptor associated with a caller s mood or emotions. Some example tags or descriptors generated by voice server include happy satisfied frustrated and angry.

In some embodiments call metadata is associated with a specific portion of a call transcript and or call audio data. For example if call metadata includes a tag related to a caller s experience e.g. what mood or emotions the caller experienced during the call whether the caller was satisfied etc. then that tag may be associated with a specific part of a call transcript and or call audio data where the caller had that particular experience. For example at the beginning of a call a caller may be in a good or neutral mood. At some point in the call the caller may receive some bad news and his mood sours. A tag of angry may identify where e.g. within the call transcript and or call audio data the caller becomes angry. In another example a new customer calls in to voice recorder to do two things set up automatic bill payment and acknowledge that the caller has received and understands the company s cancellation policy. Two different tags may be used to identify or point to the parts of the call transcript and or call audio data where the two tasks are accomplished during the call. In some embodiments such tags permits tools or services e.g. provided by or associated with a user interface to jump to those portions of the call transcript and or call audio data where the desired task occurred during a call. In some embodiments tags are used to mark the gist of customer interactions with an agent in a meaningful way for further classification and or analysis.

Big data analytical system stores large amounts of information and provides e.g. analysis related tools and services for use on the stored information. The amount of data managed by big data analytical system is typically larger than can be effectively managed by traditional or older data management systems. For example big data analytical system may store and manage petabytes or exabytes of information which is larger than older data management systems can handle. One example of big data analytical system is the Greenplum family of products by EMC including Greenplum Database for structured data and Greenplum HD an enterprise Hadoop product for unstructured data . In some embodiments big data analytical system includes a massively parallel processing MPP database such as Greenplum Database.

Big data analytical system stores and manages call audio data e.g. from voice recorder or voice server call transcripts e.g. from voice server and call metadata e.g. from voice recorder and or voice server . For brevity call audio data call transcripts and call metadata is not repeated herein anything herein in association with ECM server is also applicable to big data analytical system .

In some embodiments big data analytical system and ECM server serve different purposes and or are intended for different users. Whereas ECM server may be concerned with managing data or documents from birth to death over some information lifecycle e.g. where data goes through a sequence of states and or certain things must be done at various stages big data analytical system may instead focus on analyzing large amounts of information e.g. in order to answer questions about how different types of customers behave how customers react when presented with various options or situations etc. . Put another way in at least some cases big data analytical system analyzes data to answer questions or provide insight and ECM server is concerned with data being managed in a proper or appropriate manner.

In some embodiments a system includes some device not shown herein e.g. in addition to and or in place of big data analytical system and or ECM server . In some embodiments a system includes an eDiscovery system such as EMC Kazeon. For example a company associated with voice recorder may be involved in litigation e.g. a class action lawsuit brought by customers of the company . An eDiscovery system e.g. EMC Kazeon may store and manage call audio data call transcripts and or call metadata. Using an eDiscovery system the stored data may be searched e.g. by litigation counsel working on discovery and appropriate actions may be performed on relevant data e.g. flag as attorney client privileged send to opposing counsel etc. . Although some examples described herein relate to big data analytical systems or ECM systems the techniques are not necessarily limited to such systems.

In some embodiments big data analytical system and or ECM server manage multiple types of data and or data from sources not shown in the example of . In some embodiments web related information e.g. generated from and or associated with a user s interaction with a website is managed by big data analytical system or ECM server . In some embodiments account information e.g. including account transactions is managed by big data analytical system or ECM server . In some embodiments data generated from and or associated with a person to person interaction e.g. a customer goes into a bank branch and conducts an in person transaction with a bank teller is managed by big data analytical system or ECM server . In some embodiments data exchanged via email facsimile or USPS is managed by big data analytical system or ECM server . In one example a company may be an insurance company and a customer may send in insurance applications claims forms or supporting documents via email facsimile or USPS and copies of the documents and or data extracted from those documents are managed by big data analytical system or ECM server .

In some embodiments a system uses an adapter layer e.g. an interface which is Content Management Interoperability Services CMIS compliant to exchange data. For example voice data call transcripts and or call metadata received at big data analytical system and or ECM server may be received via an adapter layer. In some embodiments an adapter layer enables the proper integration or association of various sets of data with the appropriate application programming interface API so that the proper process can be applied to that data e.g. when ingested or on intake . For example one set of data may need certain processes performed on it and a second set of data may need another set of processes performed on it. Using an adapter layer may ensure that the proper set of data is associated with and or fed to the proper API. Similarly one source of data may format a given piece of data differently than another similar source of data. Using an adapter layer may ensure uniform and consistent ingestion of data. For example voice recorder may be implemented in a variety of ways e.g. a call center is contracted out to two or more third party call center providers or voice server may be implemented in a variety of ways e.g. there are two or more completing voice processing systems and different voice servers are implemented differently . An adapter layer ensures the overall system will not break even if new devices are added an implementation on a particular device changes etc.

At voice related information including call audio data a call transcript and call metadata associated with a call is received. For example the voice related information may be received at big data analytical system or ECM server in . The call audio data call transcript and call metadata are stored in storage at .

An instruction including one or more criteria is received at . For example big data analytical system in may receive an instruction related to analyzing data stored in big data analytical system . Or ECM server may receive an instruction associated with managing information e.g. according to or using one or more policies . At at least voice related information in storage to which the instruction applies is determined based at least in part on criteria. For example a criterion may identify what information e.g. voice related information web related information or account information in storage the instruction relates to.

At the instruction is performed at least on the determined voice related information. In some embodiments the instruction is associated with applying a policy to relevant data. For example ECM server in may manage information over a lifecycle using one or more policies and performing an instruction at may include applying or associating a policy with data to which it is relevant or applicable e.g. as determined at . In another example big data analytical system in performs an instruction on specified or relevant data.

In some embodiments performing an instruction at includes updating a user interface e.g. the same one via which an instruction is received at . In various embodiments a user interface provides e.g. to a user mid process updates e.g. while steps or are being performed if steps or take a noticeable amount of time search results analysis results etc.

The following figures show some user interface examples associated with steps and . The information features sequences and controls described in the following figures are merely exemplary and are not intended to be limiting.

In the example shown a user specifies one or more search criteria via user interface . Customer ID is used to specify an identifier e.g. an alphanumeric value which uniquely identifies a customer in a system. Customer name is used to specify at least part of a customer name to search for. A customer associated with customer ID and or customer name may be an individual a business unit within a company or an entire company. Service request ID is an identifier e.g. an alphanumeric value which uniquely identifies a service request each time a call is received at a voice recorder the call is assigned a service request identifier. Service request identifiers may be assigned to other things besides calls such as web based service requests in person service requests and so on. Call date from and call date to may be used to specify a range of dates over which a call occurs. Call length minimum and call length maximum may be used to specify a range of call lengths. Voice recorder may identify a voice recorder if there is more than one logical or physical voice recorder. For example a voice recorder may comprise a single physical call center which is staffed by two different call center service providers and each provider is associated with a different logical identifier. Or there may be one call center on the East Coast and another on the West Coast. Resolution status indicates the resolution status at the end of a call. Some example resolution status values include unresolved resolved not applicable and don t know. Words used in call may be used to specify one or more words to search for for example in a call transcript. Caller experience indicates one or more caller experiences. For example a caller experience may relate to an emotion or mood experienced by a caller during the call. Tag is a value e.g. a string or a number to search for in call metadata in some embodiments a tag is used to store a field or value shown in for example a tag may be used to store or indicate a caller s experience. Business unit is a business unit to which a call is directed or which a call is about. For example one business unit may be related to services and another business unit may be related to products and business unit may be used to specify calls about one business unit versus the other. Product service is a product or service which a call is about. Policy is a policy which is used to manage information. For example a policy may relate to access retention backup distribution and so on.

In this example search criteria and are specified using a pull down menu. In some embodiments a user interface includes other controls or features such as auto fill radio buttons sliders or increase decrease buttons.

The search criteria made available by a user interface such as user interface may vary depending upon the system. For example if user interface is provided by ECM server in then a policy has meaning since ECM server may manage information using one or more policies. Big data analytical system in however may not necessarily use policies and in such embodiments a user interface provided by big data analytical system would not include policy as a search criteria. Similarly big data analytical system in may have a search criterion that ECM server does not.

When a user has specified one or more desired search criteria the user initiates the search by pressing search button . In various embodiments if specified words used in call caller experience business unit or product service are used to search a call transcript. In some embodiments if specified customer ID customer name service request ID call date from call date to call length minimum call length maximum voice recorder resolution status caller experience business unit product service or policy are used to search call metadata.

Selecting e.g. by double clicking with a mouse a play button in call audio column causes the related call audio data to be accessed and played using an audio player e.g. Windows Media Player or a plug in Flash based audio player . Selecting a file in call transcript column causes the related call transcript to be accessed and displayed. In some embodiments a displayed call transcript is able to be searched.

Search results and are both associated with John Smith having a customer ID of . The caller i.e. John Smith called in to a voice recorder and the call resulted in two service request IDs i.e. SR3456 and SR3457 . For example the caller may have called in to a call center of an airline and during a single call requested an upgrade for his flight to New York and also requested a seat change for his flight to Los Angeles. Selecting the play button in call audio column or the file in call transcript column may cause an audio player or text viewer to jump to the portion of the call audio data or call transcript associated with that service request. For example if service request SR3456 occurs at the beginning of a call and service request SR3457 occurs at the end of the same call selecting the play button or file for search result would result in the call audio data being played back in the middle of the call where SR3457 begins or centering the display of the call transcript so that it starts in the middle where SR3457 begins.

User interface includes additional search criteria so that if desired a user is able to search through search results . For example if the number of search results returned is too large a user may reduce the number presented by specifying additional search criteria and pressing search returned results button .

User interface includes customer information associated with the selected case file. In this example customer information includes a picture of the customer the customer s name address status VIP member in this example customer ID telephone number email address and date of birth.

Call audio section includes controls for accessing call audio associated with the selected case file. Audio player includes buttons for rewinding stopping playing and fast forwarding the call audio data. Slider indicates the time elapsed from the beginning and the time remaining until to the end. In this example slider may be used to jump to different parts of the call for example by grabbing slider and moving it to the left e.g. to rewind or moving slider to the right e.g. to fast forward . In some embodiments if a call includes more than one service request call audio data which is accessible via call audio section may start end according to where a service request is determined to start stop within the call.

Call transcript includes a call transcript. In some embodiments if a call includes more than one service request the portion of the call transcript presented in call transcript corresponds to the part of the call corresponding to the particular service request.

The call transcript presented in call transcript is interactive in a variety of ways. Using call transcript search criteria one or more words within a call transcript may be searched for. Search results may be indicated in call transcript using visual indicators such as a colored highlight font color italics bold and or underlines not shown .

Another interactive feature of call transcript is the inclusion of links to related artifacts links in this example are indicated with an underline but may be indicated in some other manner. In this example selecting link e.g. by double clicking on link causes an artifact associated with the car insurance claim to be displayed. In general an artifact may be any object or data in support of or related to the related e.g. underlined portion of the call transcript. Example artifact s presented in response to selecting link include a completed claims form a copy of a police report a copy of the insurance card of another driver involved in the accident a receipt from a mechanic and or a picture of the damage to a car. Other embodiments present artifacts in some other manner. For example an artifact may be displayed by positioning a pointer above a link e.g. a roll over .

Another interactive feature of call transcript is the linking of call transcript with call audio . In this example selecting e.g. by double clicking a word in call transcript causes the call audio data to begin playing at the selected word. In some embodiments call metadata is used to record associations between a given word in a call transcript and a corresponding time or point within call audio data. In some embodiments an associated time is stored in call metadata for every word in call transcript . In some embodiments an associated time is stored in call metadata for only a subset of words in a call transcript and interpolation is used to determine times which are not stored in call metadata. For example in call transcript every 5word indicated with parentheses and its corresponding time in call audio data is stored in call metadata. If the word I m is selected the times stored in call metadata corresponding to the closest word before i.e. Good and the closest word after i.e. calling are used to perform the interpolation e.g. t Good 4 5 t calling t Good .

In some embodiments recording corresponding times for only some words may be attractive since it reduces the amount of call metadata which much be stored compared to storing corresponding times for all words in a call transcript . In some embodiments words that follow long or unusual pauses may have a corresponding time recorded in call metadata. In some applications this is attractive because long or unusual pauses may be difficult to predict using interpolation.

Related section shows other service requests related to the customer shown. In this example since customer information is already shown in customer information is not repeated in related section .

Returning to in some embodiments an instruction received at and performed at is associated with applying a policy to data stored by a data management system e.g. ECM server in . The following shows some such example user interfaces.

Complaint handling policy is applied to complaint filed state using user interface so that information e.g. account information voice related information and or web related information in complaint filed state is handled or managed in the manner described by complaint handling state . For illustrative purposes complaint filed state enters from states or states and may not necessarily exist and or be required in some systems. In state a complaint is filed via a website. In one example of a complaint filed via a website a website requires users to classify a submitted communication and if complaint is selected from a classification menu then an object is created in state and that object is migrated to state . Pieces of information e.g. related to the complaint or the customer may be collected at the website and passed from state to state such as customer name customer ID service product a transaction date and a transaction amount.

Complaint filed state may be entered through state where a complaint is filed with a call center. Similar to state complaints may be identified at a call center in a variety of ways e.g. flagged by a call center operator or by going to a complaint node in a service tree via an automated call center interface . Information associated with the complaint or customer may be gather in state and moved to complaint filed state .

Complaint filed state may be entered through other ways not described herein. For example a customer may write a letter and mail it to the company via the United States Postal Service USPS .

Regardless of how a complaint is filed account information associated with the complaint is marked to indicate that a complaint is active. For example account information includes metadata e.g. different from data such as account transaction information accounts with an active complaint may have a metadata with a metadata field and metadata value of active complaint and yes. To determine what information e.g. web related information and or voice related information is affected by complaint handling policy a customer name or account ID is obtained. With the customer name or account ID related information such as web related information or voice related information to be managed according to complaint handling policy is determined.

Once in complaint filed state data in that state is managed using complaint handling policy . In this example that includes.

To apply complaint handling policy to complaint filed state controls and are used. For example a user may select new state and left click on the workspace in user interface to create a new blank state not shown . After selecting the new blank state a right click causes a pull down menu to be displayed from which a user selects complaint filed from a list of states not shown . User interface may have access to defined states stored in an ECM system and may present them to a user for selection. Similarly interacting with new policy may enable a predefined policy to be selected. Some other interface may be used to create or otherwise define new policies or states and save it to an ECM system. Dragging complaint handling policy so that it overlaps with complaint filed state in the workspace of user interface and pressing apply button completes the association between the two.

An exemplary company has two products Product A and Product B. The company is in the middle of litigation involving Product B Product A is not part of the litigation. Litigation processing policy is applied to voice related information associated with product B using user interface. For brevity processes for applying policies to data associated with a particular product are not described herein one example was described in .

In addition to the application of litigation processing policy to data related to product B user interface is used to apply regulatory retention policy to voice related information associated with both Product A and Product B. For example customers of Product A and Product B may be required to listen to a contract agreement and give consent via a call center the verbally given consent is recorded and stored in order to comply with regulatory requirements. Or Product A and Product B may be financial services products e.g. mutual funds or shares of stock in a company and SEC regulatory requirements require financial services company to retain calls e.g. in which customers ask questions about products in which customers place orders for a fund or stock etc. for a certain number of years. As shown in this example in some embodiments multiple policies may be associated with or applied to a particular set of data if desired e.g. policies and are both applied to voice related information associated with Product B .

In some embodiments voice related information associated with a particular product is identified using call metadata. For example call metadata may include a tag of Product A or Product B. In some embodiments voice related information associated with a particular product is identified using a call transcript. For example either an operator or a caller may say the name of the product e.g. Product A or Product B and the name of the product may be searched for in a call transcript.

The following figures describe some user interface embodiments associated with a big data analytical system e.g. big data analytical system in . In some embodiments a big data analytical system e.g. compared to an ECM system is directed to analyzing large amounts of information at a macroscopic level e.g. as opposed to user interfaces for accessing or manipulating information at a microscopic level such as by accessing and replaying call audio data for an individual call . Some example questions or insights which may be answered using a big data analytical system user interfaces include what kinds of questions or requests do callers have when they call into a call center or other voice recorder what kind of user experiences are callers having when they call in if customers are interacting with a call center or other voice recorder in a manner anticipated or expected by the company identification of how the caller experience can be improved upon etc. The user interface elements and questions posed in the following figures are merely exemplary and are not intended to be limiting.

In the example shown call type s to analyze section is used to specify one or more call types to analyze. Using pull down menus provided by user interface caller experience has been selected for type and satisfied has been selected for value . Although a single call type is selected in this example user interface provides the ability if desired to analyze a combination of two or more call types. Pressing add button causes user interface to be updated with additional pull down menus for selecting an additional call type not shown . For example a user may want the combination of user experience satisfied and placed order yes to be analyzed.

Factor s to consider section has three options all factors only the following factors and all factors except . If all factors is selected all possible factors e.g. stored in a big data analytical system are considered in analyzing the call type s selected in section . In this example only the following factors is selected and the factors caller gender AND operator gender OR caller age AND operator age are specified. To add additional factors add button may be used to delete an already specified factor the appropriate one of delete buttons is used. When all factors except is selected all factors are considered except those specified.

Other user interfaces may be configured differently than shown herein. For example a command line interface may be used where a user inputs the command run into a prompt. The script may include one or more call types to analyze e.g. similar to what section in user interface is used to specify and one or more combinations of factors to consider in the analysis e.g. similar to what section in user interface is used to specify . A script may be text file which is opened and edited using a text editor e.g. vi or Emacs .

Once the desired call type s and desired factor s are specified in user interface analyze button is pressed. The following figures show embodiments of user interface when analysis results are returned.

User interface includes two tabs most relevant tab selected in this figure and all factors tab selected in the next figure . If most relevant tab is selected the combinations of factors which have a relatively high and or statistically significant degree of and or correlation with caller satisfaction. For example an average percentage of callers who had a satisfying experience e.g. may be determined over all of the combination of factors considered e.g. male callers and male operators . . . younger callers and younger operators . . . . The combinations of factors shown in most relevant tab may have a satisfaction level that is at least one standard deviation greater than the average amount e.g. greater than or equal to . This is one example of selecting combinations of factors which are statistically significant. In an example where combinations of factors with relatively high caller satisfaction are displayed in most relevant tab the N combinations of factors e.g. N would be 2 in this example with the highest satisfaction levels are displayed in most relevant tab .

In some embodiments a caller s experience e.g. satisfied or not satisfied is stored in call metadata and call metadata is searched for a field value combination of caller experience satisfied. Alternatively a tag of satisfied e.g. without user experience is searched for in call metadata. In some embodiments a call transcript is searched for words which are strongly indicative of being satisfied e.g. if operators have scripted responses searching for a scripted response which is only used when a caller is satisfied or not satisfied e.g. scripted responses by the operator employed only when a caller is not satisfied a caller swears during a call etc. . This enables a system to divide voice related information into a group which is associated with a caller experience of satisfied which will be analyzed and a group which is not associated with a caller experience of satisfied which will not be analyzed .

In some embodiments the gender and age of the caller and operator are stored in call metadata and call metadata is searched in order to determine which combination of factors voice related information being analyzed falls into. In some embodiments voice server in performs an analysis of call audio data determines the age and gender of the caller and operator and then stores that information in call metadata. The voice related information including call metadata with the age and gender of the caller and operator is then passed from voice server to big data analytical system where is stored and used in the analysis. This enables a system to divide voice related information associated with a caller experience of satisfied according to caller operator gender as well as caller operator age.

If desired a user can change the call type s and or factor s analyzed using button . For example they may want to increase decrease the number of factors considered. Pressing button at least in this example causes user interface in to be displayed.

In this example the combination of younger callers and older operators is indicated to have insufficient information. For example operators may tend to be either younger or middle aged and there may be too few samples with older operators to be presented e.g. because results obtained from a small sample may be misleading .

As in the previous figure a user may change the call type s and or factor s analyzed by pressing button causing user interface in to be displayed.

Returning to in some embodiments an instruction received at and or performed at is associated with performing an analysis such as the exemplary analysis performed in . For example determining at in may include determining what voice related information is associated with a caller experience of satisfied e.g. identified using call metadata and or a call transcript . Performing an instruction at in this example may include statistically analyzing the relevant voice related information e.g. associated with calls where the caller was satisfied to determine for each combination of caller operator gender and caller operator age a degree or amount of callers who had a satisfying experience and then identifying those combinations e.g. male callers and male operators which are the most relevant e.g. because it is a standard deviation above a mean degree or amount of callers who had a satisfying experience or it is one of the highest degrees or amounts across the combinations considered .

In some embodiments a big data analytical system manages data associated with or coming from a variety of sources. For example in addition to voice related information e.g. coming from or associated with a voice recorder such as a call center web related information i.e. originating from or associated with interaction with a website may be managed by a big data analytical system. Oftentimes in addition to providing customer service through a call center companies have a website where information is exchanged between the customer and company e.g. where customers can view information about products and or services where customers can access their accounts online where customers can joining a mailing list etc. . In some embodiments account related information e.g. any information which would be included in an account statement such as account transactions is managed by a big data analytical system. The following figures show some embodiments of a user interface where information from a variety of sources is analyzed by a big data analytical system.

User interface includes analysis input and information to consider section . In analysis input checking accounts last 12 months has been specified. In some other embodiments some other types of account activity are specified in e.g. purchases returns upgrades delinquencies etc. . Information to consider section is used to specify what data should be considered in the analysis. Account activity last 12 months relates to account related information. One example of account information for this bank example is transaction information such as deposits e.g. a deposit amount a date of a deposit and whether a deposit is in cash a check or an electronic transfer withdrawals including details described previously for deposits and fees or charges. In some embodiments account information includes information not directly related to transactions such as member type or standing creditworthiness and interest rate.

Customer interaction with call center last 12 months relates to voice related information. Some examples have been described above and include call audio data a call transcript and call metadata.

Customer interactions via the Web last 12 months relates to web related information. Some examples of web related information include a number of times a website is accessed actions initiated or performed via the website whether a user has completed some optional steps e.g. setting up optional password recovery information has selected a login image as part of an optional security measure etc. and so on.

Once the desired analysis input and information to consider have been specified the analysis is initiated by pressing analyze button . In this particular example all of options and are selected.

Section shows account information over the last 12 months which is determined to be the most relevant to checking account closures in the last 12 months. As shown in graph as average account balance increases the percentage of all checking account closures in the last 12 months also increases. For example people with relatively large average balances may have enough cash on hand so that any cash flow disruptions caused by changing banks does not result in late payments on rent bills and so on. In contrast people with relatively low average balances may live from paycheck to paycheck and changing banks would be a significant financial disruption and so they tend not to change banks.

Graph shows that higher fees correspond to higher rates of account closures. For example higher fees may cause customers to be disgruntled and move their account to another bank whereas customer with no or lower fees may not be as incentivized to change banks. In this example user interface is interactive so that clicking on any of the bars in graph causes a breakdown in fees to be displayed e.g. how much is from overdraft fees how much is from a monthly checking account fee etc. . In some embodiments user interface is able to if desired by a user compare different types of fees so that insight into which fees have a higher correlation with checking account closures may be obtained.

Graph shows that account closures in the past 12 months tended to be members who are regular members as opposed to loyalty club members. The exemplary bank designates customers who meet certain parameters to be members of a Loyalty Club where reduced or no fees are charged for Loyalty Club members regular members are charged higher or full fees. Some example parameters for being a member of the exemplary Loyalty Club include a relatively high account balance having direct deposit set up having multiple accounts e.g. mortgage and checking account or using certain services e.g. using a bill pay service or a debit card issued by the bank .

Section shows voice related information determined during the analysis to be the most relevant to checking account closures. In the example shown higher fees occurred in the voice related information 134 times e.g. in a call transcript or in a tag in call metadata and debit card occurred in the voice related information 108 times. The information displayed in may give clues as to what customers care about and thus what might have caused a customer to close their account.

Section shows web related information determined during the analysis to be the most relevant to checking account closures in the past 12 months. Graph shows that the percentage of account closures in the last 12 months increases as the average number of times an online account is accessed per month increases. For example customers who frequently access their online account may tend to keep close tabs on things like interest rates and fees and may be more likely to move their account to a bank with more favorable interest rates or fees compared to someone who does not monitor their account as frequently i.e. never or rarely accesses their online account . Although not shown herein in some embodiments user interface includes one or more show more buttons. For example there may be a show more button for each of sections and which would should more results for each type of information.

In this example the analysis begins by searching through account information to determine what accounts have closed in the last 12 months. For example in metadata there may be a field of account closing date and if the value is within the last 12 months e.g. accounts which are open may have a value of N A or some other value indicating the account is open then an account number is obtained from the account information. The account number is then used to identify voice related information and web related information associated with accounts closed in the last 12 months.

In some embodiments the analysis described in is used to make changes to a system or how a company does business referred to hereinafter as process management . For example the bank may try to keep customers by reducing or eliminating fees for customers who meet one or more of the following criteria they have a relatively large average account balance they current have fees which are relatively high they are not members of a Loyalty Club or other group receiving preferential treatment they access their online account a relatively high number of times or they have online account access set up. In some embodiments changes are made on a test basis e.g. a process management test .

Returning to the example analysis described in show one embodiment of steps and in . In this example determining at step in includes determining what account information call related information and web related information e.g. based on the selection of options and in relates to checking accounts which were closed in the last 12 months e.g. based on the analysis input at . In this example step in includes determining what account information call related information and web related information determined at step is most relevant or closely related to checking accounts closed in the last 12 months.

In some embodiments a user interface some examples of which are shown in is associated with and or provided by an Internet browser application e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome etc. . In some embodiments a user interface is part of a suite of applications associated with and or provided by a data management system or an ECM system.

Analysis of information including but not limited to voice related information enables a company to make improvements to its operations. Some embodiments of user interfaces which may be used to perform analyses are described above in . In the case of an example change is to configure a call center to assign male callers to male operators if available. Similarly a call center may be configured to assign younger callers to younger operators if available. Gender and age of callers may be determined by first identifying the caller for example by customer name or account number before assigning or forwarding the caller to an operator.

In some embodiments a change to a system e.g. assigning male callers to male operators or assigning younger callers to younger operators is implemented on a test or experimental basis. For example 10 of callers to a call center may have a test experience e.g. a test of how callers are assigned to operators a test of a new automated voice interface a test of what products are pitched during a call etc. and the other 90 may have a regular or standard call experience e.g. they are assigned without considering caller operator gender or age . Voice related information for the 10 of callers who have the test experience may be flagged by including in corresponding voice metadata a tag indicating the test e.g. a tag of M M assignment test or new voice recognition system . Using such tags subsequent analyses may be performed to determine for example whether the experiment was successful what bugs need to be worked out in the experience being tested and or whether the experiment should be rolled out to more callers.

When evaluating a text experience it may be useful to have a control group to compare against the test group. In some embodiments a user interface provides a service or tool for e.g. automatically determining or generating a control group corresponding to a specified test experience or test group. For example a user may input the command evaluate generate control group where generate control group is an option for the evaluate command or generate control group . The system may then identify a control group e.g. as part of the evaluation of the test including by determining a minimum number of members in the control group e.g. in order to be statistically meaningful . In some embodiments determining a control group includes identifying characteristics for one or more test subjects who had the test experience and identifying callers with similar characteristics who did not have the test experience.

In this example user interface has three modes. If call transcript only button is selected the tags which are selected to be displayed and font sizes of the displayed tags are determined only from call transcript information without taking into consideration call metadata. For example it may be the number of times a tag occurs in one or more call transcripts where the count excludes the number of times that tag occurs in call metadata. If call metadata only button is selected only call metadata is used to determine what tags to display and what font sizes those tags are to be displayed at e.g. without taking into consideration a call transcript . If call transcript and metadata button is selected both call metadata and call transcript information is used to select tags to display and determine what font size to display them at.

In the example shown call transcript and metadata is selected and user interface displays tag cloud information for both call transcript information and call metadata e.g. top tag in each triplet for just call transcript information e.g. bottom left tag in each triplet and for just call metadata e.g. bottom right tag in each triplet . Displaying a triplet as shown in user interface enables a user to know the contribution from call transcript information versus the contribution from call metadata when call transcript and metadata button is selected.

In some embodiments a user interface e.g. associated with searching assigning a policy to data and or analyzing information is configured to display a tag cloud such as the tag cloud shown in user interface . For example section in may be presented as a tag cloud where the font size of higher fees would be larger than the font size of debit card. 

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

