---

title: System and method for pairing a dialysis machine with peripheral devices
abstract: A dialysis system includes: a dialysis machine; and at least one of a blood pressure sensor and a weight sensor in wireless communication with the dialysis machine, wherein the dialysis machine is so positioned and arranged relative to the at least one blood pressure sensor or weight sensor that the dialysis machine is discoverable by the at least one blood pressure sensor or weight sensor when the at least one blood pressure sensor or weight sensor, respectively, is powered, and such that the at least one blood pressure sensor or weight sensor becomes paired automatically with the dialysis machine for secure wireless communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09381290&OS=09381290&RS=09381290
owner: Baxter Healthcare S.A.
number: 09381290
owner_city: Glattpark
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20121005
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit as a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 469 371 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 282 829 filed May 20 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATED DATA COLLECTION OF TWENTY FOUR HOUR ULTRAFILTRATION AND OTHER PATIENT PARAMETERS USING WIRED OR WIRELESS TECHNOLOGY the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and relied upon.

The present disclosure relates to medical fluid delivery and in particular to peritoneal dialysis fluid delivery.

Due to disease or other causes a person s renal system can fail. In renal failure of any cause there are several physiological derangements. The balance of water minerals and the excretion of daily metabolic load is no longer possible in renal failure. During renal failure toxic end products of nitrogen metabolism urea creatinine uric acid and others can accumulate in blood and tissues.

Kidney failure and reduced kidney function have been treated with dialysis. Dialysis removes waste toxins and excess water from the body that would otherwise have been removed by normal functioning kidneys. Dialysis treatment for replacement of kidney functions is critical to many people because the treatment is life saving. One who has failed kidneys could not continue to live without replacing at least the filtration functions of the kidneys.

One type of dialysis is peritoneal dialysis. Peritoneal dialysis uses a dialysis solution or dialysate which is infused into a patient s peritoneal cavity through a catheter implanted in the cavity. The dialysate contacts the patient s peritoneal membrane in the peritoneal cavity. Waste toxins and excess water pass from the patient s bloodstream through the peritoneal membrane and into the dialysate. The transfer of waste toxins and water from the bloodstream into the dialysate occurs due to diffusion and osmosis i.e. an osmotic gradient occurs across the membrane. The spent dialysate drains from the patient s peritoneal cavity and removes the waste toxins and excess water from the patient. This cycle is repeated.

There are various types of peritoneal dialysis therapies including continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis CAPD and automated peritoneal dialysis APD . CAPD is a manual dialysis treatment in which the patient connects an implanted catheter to a drain and allows a spent dialysate fluid to drain from the patient s peritoneal cavity. The patient then connects the catheter to a bag of fresh dialysate and manually infuses fresh dialysate through the catheter and into the patient s peritoneal cavity. The patient disconnects the catheter from the fresh dialysate bag and allows the dialysate to dwell within the cavity to transfer waste toxins and excess water from the patient s bloodstream to the dialysate solution. After a dwell period the patient repeats the manual dialysis procedure.

In CAPD the patient performs several drain fill and dwell cycles during the day for example about four times per day. Each treatment cycle typically takes about an hour. APD is similar to CAPD in that the dialysis treatment includes a drain fill and dwell cycle. APD machines however perform three to four cycles of peritoneal dialysis treatment automatically typically overnight while the patient sleeps. Like CAPD APD machines connect fluidly to an implanted catheter to one or more sources or bags of fresh dialysate and to a fluid drain.

The APD machines pump fresh dialysate from the dialysate source through the catheter into the patient s peritoneal cavity and allow the dialysate to dwell within the cavity so that the transfer of waste toxins and excess water from the patient s bloodstream to the dialysate solution can take place. The APD machines then pump spent dialysate from the peritoneal cavity though the catheter to the drain. APD machines are typically computer controlled so that the dialysis treatment occurs automatically when the patient is connected to the dialysis machine for example when the patient sleeps. That is the APD systems automatically and sequentially pump fluid into the peritoneal cavity allow for a dwell pump fluid out of the peritoneal cavity and repeat the procedure. As with the manual process several drain fill and dwell cycles will occur during APD. A last fill is typically used at the end of APD which remains in the peritoneal cavity of the patient when the patient disconnects from the dialysis machine for the day.

Some patients perform a midday exchange away for the APD machine. The patient has to manually keep track of the amount of ultrafiltration UF removed during a midday exchange and then add it to the UF amount removed using the APD machine typically at night to arrive at a total daily or twenty four hour total UF. A need exists for an improvement over this current practice. Further a need exists for an APD machine to conveniently accept and monitor other patient parameters pertinent to a dialysis therapy such as blood pressure and patient weight which can then be used to help obtain a better therapy.

The present disclosure provides a dialysis system and method for automated twenty four hour ultrafiltration UF recordation and patient data using wired or wireless technology. The present disclosure is described in connection with peritoneal dialysis PD however many concepts set forth herein are applicable to other medical fluid treatments and in particular other types of renal failure therapies such as hemodialysis HD hemofiltration HF and hemodiafiltration HDF .

In one primary embodiment the present system and method includes a dialysis machine such as an automated peritoneal dialysis APD machine and a remote exchange device RED . The APD machine typically runs a night therapy in which the machine beings by drawing spent fluid from the patient s peritoneum and then filling the patient with fresh dialysate. That fresh dialysate dwells within the patient for a period of time dwell period absorbing toxins and UF basically built up fluid that the patient cannot excrete until the fresh dialysate becomes spent. The APD machine repeats the above cycle a number of times such as three to five times each cycle accumulating additional UF which the APD machine records.

In addition to the night therapy many PD patients also perform an additional midday exchange that also removes toxins an UF from the patient. The initial nighttime drain will then be the spent midday fill. The midday exchange is performed using the RED which also accumulates the amount of UF that the patient produces. In the method and system of the present disclosure the amount of UF accumulated via the midday exchange is communicated to the APD machine which totals the UF removed for a full day s or twenty four hour treatment removing the burden from the patient from doing so manually.

In one embodiment the RED is brought into proximity with the APD machine such that the RED can send information to the machine. The communication can be via a wire that is attached between the RED and the APD machine such as USB cable or serial cables. Alternatively the communication is wireless e.g. via Bluetooth Zigbee WiFi or wireless USB.

In another embodiment the system includes an intermediate data transfer unit The RED downloads therapy information to the data transfer unit through wired or wireless communication in a manner the same as or similar to the direct communication embodiment discussed above. The data transfer unit includes a memory storage member port such as a USB port which allows the patient to insert a memory storage member such as a USB flash drive or travel drive into the port. Pertinent data is then downloaded from the data transfer unit to the storage member which is then brought to the APD machine. The APD machine is provided with processing and memory for integrating the midday data with the overnight data to arrive at twenty four hour data e.g. twenty four UF removed.

The intermediate data transfer unit is useful when multiple APD machines exist in the system e.g. for an in center application. Here the data transfer unit operates with multiple RED s for different patients. Each patient is provided with his or her own memory storage member or card. The patient downloads data from the RED to the data transfer unit and inserts his her memory card into the unit. The unit may seek a patient identifier so that it can cue information for multiple patients while waiting to receive a memory card. Upon receiving the identifier which for example matches an identifier sent from the RED along with therapy data the appropriate data is downloaded to the patient s data card or member which the patient can then bring to the APD machine to upload the data into the machine. In an alternative embodiment the data transfer unit waits until prior data is downloaded from the patient s data card before accepting data from a second machine. Even here it is desirable to require patient identification so that the system and method can confirm that the data is being downloaded to the appropriate data transfer card.

In a further alternative embodiment the RED is provided with a port for receiving the patient s data card or member. Patient identification may or may not be required for downloading data from the RED to the patient s data card.

The system and method does not require an intermediate data transfer unit to operate with multiple machines e.g. in a center. The patient s RED can be wired directly to the machine storing the patient s night therapy data. Here a patient ID code may be required to ensure that the APD machine is being linked to the appropriate RED. When communication is done wirelessly the system can require one or both of i encryption which initiates security features before the wireless link between the APD machine and the RED is completed and ii a patient identifier confirming that the RED is linked to the proper machine.

It is contemplated for any of the embodiments discussed herein to provide for the data transfer from peripheral devices different from and in addition to the RED. Communication may wired but is in one preferred embodiment wireless to avoid multiple cables. In addition to the RED the APD machine can be configured to read any one or more of i bioelectric impedance data which measures patient fluid hydration status and estimates the patient s dry weight ii blood pressure data e.g. from a blood pressure cuff iii body weight e.g. from a weigh scale iv patient blood glucose data e.g. from a glucometer and patient body temperature e.g. from a thermometer . Each of the above devices is modified in one embodiment to be a wireless data master so that the APD cycler is then a wireless data slave. The result is a wireless network in which any of the master peripheral devices can send information to the APD machine assuming encryption and or identifier security measures are met when the APD machine is visible to others or in a discoverable mode.

It is accordingly an advantage of the present disclosure to provide a method and system for automatically calculating and monitoring twenty four hour ultrafiltration removed from the patient.

It is another advantage of the present disclosure to provide a method and system that automatically receives multiple patient parameters pertinent to therapy such as patient weight blood pressure glucose level temperature and bioimpedance hydration data.

It is a further advantage of the present disclosure to provide a system and method that can be expanded to encompass multiple machines e.g. for in center use.

It is yet another advantage of the method or system of the present disclosure to use wireless technology in one embodiment for the automatic exchange of data.

Additional features and advantages are described herein and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description and the figures.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to a data collection system uses a dialysis machine . System is applicable generally to any type of renal failure therapy system such as peritoneal dialysis PD hemodialysis HD hemofiltration HF hemodiafiltration HDF and continuous renal replacement therapy CRRT . System could also be used outside of the renal field such as for medication delivery in general and for blood processing. For ease of illustration however system is described in general as a dialysis system and in one particularly well suited application as a PD system.

Dialysis instrument is configured for whichever type of renal failure therapy system is used. Dialysis instrument includes a central processing unit CPU and a plurality of controllers e.g. safety valve heater pump video and audio e.g. voice guidance controllers operable with the CPU. The CPU operates with a graphical user machine interface GUI e.g. via the video controller. The GUI includes a video monitor and one or more type of input device such as a touch screen or electromechanical input device e.g. membrane switch . The CPU also operates with a wireless communicator and or receives data from a memory device port such as a USB flash drive or travel drive port discussed in more detail below.

The CPU and video controller in cooperation with video monitor provide UF and other data downloading instructions visually via characters graphics to the patient or caregiver. For example characters graphics can be displayed to provide instructions regarding when to attempt to send data wirelessly to machine or where on machine to plug a flash drive for data downloading. Additionally or alternatively The CPU and voice guidance controller in cooperation with speakers provide audible instructions via voice guidance to the patient or caregiver. For example voice guidance can be given to provide instructions regarding the downloading of data from a remote exchange device RED to machine .

As seen in dialysis instrument accepts and operates with a disposable apparatus . Disposable apparatus includes one or more supply bag to referred to herein collectively as supply bags or individually generally as supply bag . While three supply bags are shown system can employ any suitable number of supply bags. Disposable set also includes a drain bag not illustrated a warmer bag bag tubes to referred to herein collectively as tubing or tubes or individually generally as tube and a disposable pumping valve cassette not illustrated .

Depending on the type and structure of machine one or more of the items of disposable apparatus may not be needed. For example machine can pump spent fluid to a house drain such as a bathtub a toilet or sink instead of to a drain bag. Machine can also include an inline heater in which case warmer bag is not needed.

As mentioned a disposable cassette located behind door of machine in connects to supply bags a drain bag and warmer bag via tubes and respectively. Tube runs from the cassette to a patient connection . The cassette in one embodiment includes a rigid structure having i rigid outer walls ii a base wall from which inner pump chambers valve chambers and inner fluid pathways extend iii rigid fluid ports that connect sealingly to tubing and iv a pair of flexible membranes or sheets sealed to outer rigid walls and possibly additionally to inner rigid walls. Tubing can be fixed to a port such that bags are spiked for fluid connection. Alternatively tubing is fixed to bags and the cassette ports are spiked for fluid connection.

Machine can actuate the pump and valve chambers of the cassette pneumatically mechanically or both. The illustrated embodiment uses pneumatic actuation. The HomeChoice APD system marketed by the assignee of the present disclosure uses a pneumatic system described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 350 357 The 357 patent the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Here machine includes a membrane gasket which creates different sealed areas with cassette sheeting at each of the pump and valve chambers of the cassette. Machine in the illustrated embodiment includes a door which closes against the cassette. Door includes a press plate not illustrated which can be operated mechanically e.g. via the closing of the door and or pneumatically e.g. via an inflatable bladder located in the door behind the press plate . Pressing the plate against the cassette in turn presses the cassette against the membrane gasket that cooperates with the sheeting of the cassette to pump fluid and open and close valves.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 814 547 the 547 patent assigned to the assignee of the present disclosure discloses a pumping mechanism in connection with FIGS. 17A and 17B incorporated herein by reference which uses a combination of pneumatic and mechanical actuation. FIGS. 15 16A and 16B of the 547 patent incorporated herein by reference teach the use of mechanically actuated valves. Either or both the 547 pumping mechanism or valves could be used alternatively with machine .

One suitable embodiment for a remote exchange device RED is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 131 755 the 755 Application now U.S. Pat. No. 8 262 602 filed Jun. 2 2008 entitled Remote Exchange Peritoneal Dialysis the entire contents of which are incorporated herein directly by reference. The control scheme for the incorporated device is illustrated here in which is adapted from FIG. 2 of the 755 Application. depicts a control system for a flexible portable RED . The control system receives conventional electrical power from a power cord that is suitable for normal household clinic or hospital AC power. The principal user of power in this system is the heater. Thus the input power is sent to a power supply for conversion into the particular power needed for the heater as shown. The power supply also produces 5 VDC power for the system microcontroller and the other components of the system as needed such as for the LED lamps. Other voltages may be produced by the power supply as needed for each component of the system. The microcontroller receives a number of inputs from system components such as a temperature selector and if used an input and output to a separate heater controller. The microcontroller may itself include a routine for controlling the heater rather than using a separate heater controller. A temperature sensing element or temperature sensor such as a thermocouple or thermistor is used to measure the temperature of the dialysis fluid and to control the heating of the dialysis fluid. A pressure sensor may also be placed at one or more points within the system to gauge pressure of fluid to and from the patient. In particular a vacuum gauge or absolute pressure gage may be placed on the drain line to avoid using too much suction on the drain line which could irritate the peritoneum of the patient.

The control system also accepts inputs from a load cell of RED and from a keypad or optionally a keyboard. The control system also includes a number of outputs. A monitor such as a video screen or a digital read out may be used to output the temperature of the dialysate the time elapsed and so forth. Other outputs include signals to vacuum pump or dialysate pump which may be a peristaltic pump membrane pump or other desired pump. The system also includes signal processing circuitry and a wireless communicator . The signal processing circuitry of control system and wireless communicator are small and compact and fit well within control system of RED .

One suitable wireless module for communicator is ZigBee IEEE 805.15.4. This is a standard for a very low power radio system with a very limited range about 10 to 20 feet. Modules made in accordance with this standard may be purchased from Maxstream Inc. Lindon Utah U.S.A. Helicomm Inc. Carlsbad Calif. U.S.A. and ANT Cochrane Alberta Canada. The module is very small and may be about 2 cm square about 1 inch square and about 3 mm thick inch . The signal processing circuitry formats the digital data and routes it to a data buffer before transmission to a remote site. Other equipment in accord with other specifications may be used instead such as IEEE 802.15.1 Bluetooth . Alternatively the microprocessor may report desired therapy information via a landline such as a wire harness connected to the appropriate site for receiving the information such as a communications center of a hospital or clinic.

The system may sound an alarm if therapy parameters are exceeded through speaker or by illuminating one or more LED on RED . An alarm may also be given through the monitor in conjunction with stopping the therapy session. The controller may use the outputs by sending a signal to the appropriate output when the temperature of the warmed dialysate fluid is too high or too low when the therapy session has taken too long or when any other required parameter is exceeded.

APD machine records ultrafiltrate UF removed for night exchanges automatically. Until now however the patient had to manually weigh the day exchange fill volume and drain volume by scale and manually enter these values into the APD machine. Referring to system automates the data collection of UF and other values which includes both night and midday exchange values. System adds the night exchange UF and midday exchange UF to arrive at the total daily UF. System and the other systems herein allow the midday exchanges to be performed away from the patient s home and without using APD machine .

RED provides the midday exchange and the capability of recording fill volume and drain volume to calculate UF for one or more midday exchange. The RED uses wireless communicator to communicate with wireless communicator of APD machine . Wireless communicator has a transmit function and alternatively additionally has receiving functionality for receiving information e.g. from APD machine . Wireless communicator of APD machine has receive functionality and alternatively additionally has transmit functionality for send data e.g. to RED .

It is contemplated with system that the patient return home e.g. from work and place RED within the communication range of wireless communicators and . When both APD machine and RED are then powered the UF data is downloaded from RED to APD machine . The downloading can be automatic or require a user input from either input devices of machine or via keyboard of RED . Appropriate information regarding the downloading of UF data such as the fill volume amount the drain volume amount and the resulting UF can be displayed on one or both of video monitor of machine and monitor of RED . The calculation of UF removed for the midday exchange total midday drain volume less total midday fill volume may be performed via microcontroller of RED or via the CPU of machine . The overall daily or twenty four hour UF removed nightly total UF and total midday UF is performed at the CPU of machine in one embodiment. In this manner better therapy e.g. PD therapy is provided because critical data is recorded transferred and manipulated automatically removing recording and calculating errors and making the therapy easier for the patient.

APD machine in general uses each of the various UF BIA WS BP G and T data to evaluate an ongoing or completed therapy. The machine may receive any desired one or combination of UF BIA WS BP G and T data. Moreover the different data does not have to each come from a separate device. For example a single unit measuring BIA T G and possibly BP could be used with RED for UF and a separate weigh scale for WS. Or such a device could be combined with RED .

In an alternative embodiment any of the RED BIA BP WS G and T devices can communicate via wired communication with APD machine . Here machine and the associated device each accept a wire e.g. for serial or USB communication.

Referring now to system illustrates an alternative system that employs an intermediate data transfer unit DTU . DTU receives any one or more of UF DIA BP WS G and T data wired or wirelessly via the apparatus and methodology described herein. DTU also has a port for accepting a memory device e.g. a USB serial drive or flash drive which plugs into port . Information sent wirelessly to DTU is transferred onto drive which is then plugged into memory port at APD machine . APD machine then retrieves the data from memory device .

Bluetooth wireless technology is one preferred technology and has three range classes shown below in Table 1. Classes I and II may be more suitable for the disclosed operations.

Bluetooth data rate are shown below in Table 2. System including all system to can use either version 1.2 or 2.0.

In any of the embodiments described herein when wireless communication is used a network may be formed and used. For example if Bluetooth wireless technology is used a star topology can be established between APD machine and the peripheral device such as RED . In the resulting piconet the peripheral device operates as the master while the APD machine operates as a delegate device. When the patient wants to download data to APD machine the APD machine makes itself visible to others . That is APD machine places itself in a discoverable mode in which it may be discovered or communicated to by any of the master peripheral devices such as RED BIA BP WS G and T devices.

It is contemplated that any of the RED BIA BP WS G and T devices will de power themselves once they have communicated their data to APD machine . If any of the devices are battery powered e.g. BIA BP WS G and T devices the de powering will save battery charge.

Referring to method illustrates one possible way in which one of the peripheral devices becomes paired or enabled for communication with an APD machine . Method uses BP as an example but applies equally to the other types of peripheral devices. Once pairing is completed APD machine stores the peripheral device address and corresponding patient identification number PIN into its non volatile memory. Likewise the peripheral e.g. BP device stores the APD machine s wireless or Bluetooth address into its non volatile memory. In this manner the pairing process only has to be performed once for the APD machine and any particular peripheral device.

At circle the pairing sequence begins. At block APD machine is powered and set in wireless discoverable mode to be visible to others . At block the patient uses the BP device to take a blood pressure measurement. At block method waits until a wireless or Bluetooth PIN code request appears in video monitor of APD machine or on computer linked to APD machine . At block the patient or caregiver enters the BP PIN into the CPU of APD machine via input device or a computer linked to APD machine . At block method waits for authorization for the wireless or Bluetooth service. This authentication in general entails confirmation of a unique Bluetooth Wireless device address e.g. a forty eight bit address unique to the world and user entering the security PIN. The APD device could also require verification of patient ID or name.

The patient or the caregiver then presses OK or confirms to allow further action. At block the patient or caregiver selects an option to keep the APD machine and the BP device paired in the future. This may entail checking always allow the device to access this service on a computer screen linked to APD machine or on video monitor of APD machine .

Patient security is a priority for system . It is important that APD machine receives the correct data for a particular patient. It is also important that others can not access the patient s data without authorization. Regarding this latter concern it is contemplated to use propriety protocols for communication between the peripheral devices and APD machine . The protocols require that the machine maintain customized software to be able to receive and process information from the peripheral devices. The software prevents a third party who may have the PIN and Bluetooth address of the APD machine from intercepting the patient s information being sent from the remote device.

The inventors recommend security mode three for communication between any of RED BIA BP WS T and G devices and the APD machine. Authentication involves the PIN and addresses described above. The encryption involves i unique wireless device number and security PIN number built in the original purchased Bluetooth wireless blood pressure and weight scale device ii 64 128 192 or 256 bit encryption the original purchased Bluetooth wireless blood pressure and weight scale devices from A D has a 128 bit encryption and iii proprietary communication protocol. As shown below prototype was successfully developed using the proprietary communication protocol and blood pressure and weight scale data were transferred to the target devices.

Generally the prototype software to interface the wireless peripheral devices was built to interface PC Windows XP and HP IPAQ PDA Model HX2795 using Windows Mobile . The inventors developed the prototype to interface with wireless weight scale and blood pressure devices provided by A D Medical San Jose Calif. The prototype has been run in Windows XP using a laptop computer or Windows Mobile 5.0 using HP iPAQ PDA. The A D Medical Bluetooth BP and WS use link level security and 128 bit encryption. The prototype development tools and hardware in the example prototype software included 

The Bluetooth prototype application was developed on Visual Studio 2005 platform using C C Sharp programming language. The A D medical devices follow the Bluetooth Serial Port Profile so once the connection is established the data is sent as in the serial port emulation.

After the BP or WS reading is taken the device looks for Bluetooth discoverable computers PDA s e.g. machine and starts the inquiry procedure. A standard PIN is stored in the peripheral device. Once the PIN request is obtained the user responds by inputting the correct pin number and the wireless connection is created. After the pairing process is completed the peripheral BP and WS devices store the address of the machine access point to which it is connected for the next reading. Data in the future is then transferred to the stored machine access point s address by default.

Microsoft NET Framework 2.0 has a built in Serial Port class. The Serial port class can be used to open the Port in which the data is received. The data received is decoded and displayed. The software prototype works above the layers of Bluetooth architecture on the high level application layer connected to the emulated serial port.

A first prototype application software was developed for the Windows XP environment. This first prototype software required the user to input the computer s or machine s serial port number which is used for communication. Once a reading is taken the peripheral device e.g. BP cuff or the weight scale looks for the stored access point address and transmits the data when the address is found. The computer or machine port is opened at the application end and receives the data which unpacks the data and sends an acknowledgement back to the peripheral BP or WS device. shows an example screen that the prototype software displayed. The screen shows information such as the measurement date and time transmission date and time device address serial number. There is also an option to calibrate a clock located inside the peripheral device e.g. the A D Bluetooth peripheral device e.g. BP cuff or WS having a communication protocol using a configuration packet that allows the PIN to be changed and the clock to be synchronized. The clock includes the year month day hour minute and second.

The first prototype used the Windows Mobile 5.0 SDK software which provides a compact operating system combined with a suite of basic applications for mobile devices based on the Microsoft Win32 application programming interface API . The Microsoft applications programming interface provides functions libraries communication protocols classes and data structures to support building custom applications. Devices that run Windows Mobile software include for example pocket PCs smart phones and portable media centers. Windows Mobile software is somewhat similar to the desktop versions of Windows.

Windows CE software also used in the original prototype software is Microsoft s real time embedded operating system which is used for a wide variety of small footprint devices including industrial controllers communications hubs point of sale terminal and consumer electronics. The Windows Mobile platform is built on top of Windows CE software and concentrates on lower level operating system OS specifics such as the kernel memory management driver architecture etc.

The original prototype software also used a Visual Studio 2005 platform provided with emulators which resembles a Windows Mobile 5.0 device. The prototype Software has been tested on the Windows Mobile 5.0 Pocket PC emulator. Since serial ports are used the serial port of the emulator is mapped to listen to the computer s or machine s communications port upon which the computer or machine listens. In the Configure option of the Emulator the Serial Port was mapped to the appropriate port number.

In an alternative embodiment the application is run using a personal digital assistant PDA which in turn communicates wirelessly or via wired communication with machine . In the prototype the PDA could simulate either APD machine or an actual PDA that a clinician uses in a dialysis center. Many current PDA s have Bluetooth wireless communication capability allowing the custom prototype application to be loaded inside the PDA allowing the modified PDA prototype to communicate wirelessly with the wireless peripheral devices after pairing. The peripheral devices are again paired using the PIN procedure. The application that is created for the emulator is installed on to the PDA. One process for creating PDA application software for interfacing dialysis machine and one or more peripheral device wirelessly is as follows 

The Bluetooth prototype application software for Windows XP in PC and Windows Mobile 5.0 in PDA has been successfully developed and tested. The conclusions and recommendations for the prototype are listed as follows 

It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present subject matter and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

