---

title: Central services hub for a telecommunications network
abstract: Implementations of the present disclosure involve an apparatus, system and/or method for a central hub of a telecommunications network to provide varying services for a received communication intended for varying telecommunications networks. In one embodiment, the central service hub receives the communication and provides the varying services for the communication based on information concerning the communication, such as the intended telecommunication network. In another embodiment, the central service hub analyzes the communication and determines to which telecommunications network the communication should be routed to apply the appropriate network services. The central service hub may comprise a softswitch, media gateway controller device or other telecommunications device that includes programming, such as an application programming interface (API), configured to receive and process the incoming communications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08761369&OS=08761369&RS=08761369
owner: Level 3 Communications, LLC
number: 08761369
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120914
---
Aspects of the present disclosure relate to telecommunication networks. More particularly aspects of the present disclosure involve an apparatus system and method for consolidating access to services provided by separate telecommunication networks through a common access point or central component of the network.

Telecommunication networks provide for the transmission of information across some distance through terrestrial wireless or satellite communication networks. Such communications may involve voice data or multimedia information among others. In a typical telephony based communication network a long distance voice communication is received at a local exchange carrier LEC transmitted to a long distance carrier and terminated at another LEC at the destination. For example a prior telecommunication network is depicted in . In this example a communication is initiated or originates at a local telephonic device indicated in as telephone . The originating LEC connected to the local telephonic device routes the communication to one of possibly several long distance carrier networks associated with the LEC. Typically the long distance carrier selected to transmit the communication is associated with the telephone number of the local telephonic device from which the communication originates.

For example the originating LEC may maintain a database of connected telephone numbers and associates a long distance network with the numbers for routing of long distance communications. Thus when a long distance communication is received by the LEC the database is accessed to determine which available long distance network to transmit the communication. As such a long distance communication made from one device connected to the originating LEC may be routed to network A while another long distance communication made from a separate device connected to the originating LEC may be routed to long distance network B for handling. While only two long distance networks are shown in any number of long distance networks may be connected to the originating LEC to handle long distance communications originating from the one or more devices associated with the LEC.

To associate the originating device with a long distance carrier the LEC associates a carrier identification code CIC with the incoming communication. The CIC identifies the long distance network that will handle the communication. With this information the originating LEC routes the long distance communication to the corresponding long distance network. The long distance network then routes the communication through the network to a receiving LEC that completes the connection to the receiving telephonic device .

Differences in the long distance networks make the routing of a long distance communication to the proper network important. For example each network may provide different service packages to the customers of that particular network for long distance communications. More particularly and for example network A may provide toll free services that differ from services offered by network B. In addition each network may provide varying billing pricing and procedures for long distance communications transmitted through the network. Further each network may utilize different communication platforms or protocols such that a communication transmitted by network A is in a different transmission format than a communication transmitted by network B. Also because of the different formats utilized the networks may differ in the type of communication devices that comprise the networks as such devices are typically format specific.

However in some instances it may be desirous to transmit a communication through a network not indicated by the CIC associated with the communication. For example a long distance network may not be directly connected to a particular LEC such that the network cannot provide long distance services to potential customers connected to the LEC. In another example a long distance carrier may own two or more networks that are connected to a single LEC such that redundant components are included at the LEC for that carrier. In addition a carrier may desire that all long distance communications for each network owned by that carrier be routed through one particular network for cost and efficiency reasons. Hence among other things there exists a need for method and system for flexibility in the processing of a communication intended for a first network by another network s components.

One implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a method for transmitting a long distance communication. The method may include the operation of receiving a long distance communication originating from a communication device associated with a first telecommunications network the long distance communication including information associating the long distance communication with a second telecommunications network. In addition the method may include applying one or more services to the long distance communication the one or more services associated with the second telecommunications network applying routing information to the long distance communication the routing information configured to route the long distance communication to the second telecommunications network and transmitting the long distance communication to the second telecommunications network utilizing the routing information.

Another implementation of the present disclosure may take the form of a system transmission of long distance communications. The system may comprise a central service hub connected to a local exchange carrier a first long distance network and a second long distance network. The central service hub may comprise a processor and a computer readable device associated with the processor. The computer readable device includes one or more instructions stored thereon and executable by the processor that cause the central service hub to receive a first long distance communication from the local exchange carrier the first long distance communication including information associating the first long distance communication with the first long distance network and apply a first set of services to the first long distance communication the first set of services associated with the first telecommunications network. The central service hub may also receive a second long distance communication from the local exchange carrier the second long distance communication including information associating the second long distance communication with the second long distance network and apply a second set of services to the second long distance communication the second set of services associated with the second telecommunications network.

Implementations of the present disclosure involve an apparatus system and or method for a common access point or central hub for a telecommunications network to provide varying services for a received communication intended for various possible different telecommunications networks. In one embodiment the central service hub receives the communication and provides the appropriate services for the communication based on information concerning the communication such as the intended telecommunication network. In another embodiment the central service hub analyzes the communication and determines to which telecommunications network the communication should be routed to apply the appropriate network services. The central service hub may comprise a softswitch media gateway controller device an application server or other telecommunications device that includes programming such as an application programming interface API configured to receive and process the incoming communications. Based on information gleaned from an analysis of the incoming communication the central service hub provides one or more services to the communication or provides routing information to the communication to transmit the communication to an appropriate network. In this manner one or more telecommunications networks are configured to route incoming communications to the central service hub or otherwise query the hub. The central service hub can then provide services to the communication based on information associated with the incoming communication and or route the communication to the appropriate network for the service application.

The use of a central service hub also allows for the reduction of redundant network services and components. For example because communications intended for varying networks can be routed to the central service hub for processing networks are not required to provide hardware components from originating device to terminating device of the communication. Rather several networks may utilize a single connection to the originating device and instead connect to the central service hub to receive and process the communications. In addition the central service hub may provide services of several varying networks relieving some telecommunication networks from the receiving and processing every communication intended for that network. Rather the telecommunication network may obtain customers in locations not serviced by the network and provide their services through an existing network and central service hub. The central service hub may also eliminate redundant services provided by two or more networks as such services are handled by the central service hub rather than providing two networks that perform the same function. As such the central service hub described herein provides for a common access point for communications of a plurality of telecommunications networks to more efficiently route and process the services associated with the communications.

As explained above a communication either local or long distance may originate at a telephonic device connected to a local exchange carrier. Telephonic devices of represent any number and type of communication devices that may originate a communication for the telecommunication network. For example telephonic device may include a land based telephone a cell phone a computer a wireless computer device a personal digital assistant and the like. In general any device from which a voice or data communication originates is summarized by the telephonic devices of .

The telephonic devices of are connect to one or more local networks that are configured to connect the communication within the local network to another connected communication device or to one or more long distance networks . As used herein the term connected to is used to mean any type of coupling whereby information can be passed between two or more components including wired and or wireless communication. In one example the components may be directly connected as indicated in . In another example one or more additional components and devices of the network may be connected between the components shown. In general any connection point shown in may include any type of direct connection or indirect connection of a telecommunications network. Further local networks can be any network capable of connecting one or more communication devices for communication between the devices or with a long distance network for communication with a remotely located device. In general local networks can include border networks Wi Fi points Internet Service Provider ISP networks public switched telephone networks PSTN enterprise networks virtual private networks VPN and or the like.

The network of may also include a central service hub device . In particular one or more of the border networks may be connected to the central service hub for transmission of a communication to the central hub. In one embodiment the central service hub is an IP media gateway device that is configured or programmed to process incoming communications as explained herein. An IP media gateway can be any microprocessor based machine used to control and or connect the border of an IP network and an adjoining network. In another embodiment the central service hub is a softswitch device that is configured to process incoming communications as explained below. More particularly the central service hub functions may be implemented in a device that also provides the softswitch functionality for a network. In general the central service hub is a telecommunication networking device that is programmed or otherwise configured to perform the functions described herein for incoming long distance communications. Central service hub also provides a gateway or interface between the local networks and one or more long distance networks . As explained in more detail below the central service may be separate from or a part of the long distance networks .

One or more long distance networks may be connected to the central service hub for receiving long distance communications that originate from one or more of the telephonic devices . Although two long distance networks are shown in any number of such networks may be connected to or otherwise associated with the central service hub . Further although the networks of are shown as distinct networks it should be appreciated that some components of the networks may overlap or be shared between the networks. In addition network A and network B may be any known type or hereafter developed telecommunication network including a voice over IP VOIP communications network or packet switched network. In general the networks may include one or more routers and switches capable of routing various transmissions across the network. Long distance communications or transmissions originating terminating at a local carrier may be transmitted through the networks to a remotely located communication device. As such although not shown in one or more local networks and telephonic devices may also be connected to the long distance networks to receive communications that are transmitted through the central service hub .

Similar to the network described above a local network designated as the LEC may be connected to a telecommunications network such as the network system A . A communication originating at a device connected to the LEC is first processed by the LEC. In particular the LEC may utilize a database to associate the communication e.g. a phone call with a telecommunication network e.g. a specific long distance carrier . In particular the LEC associates a carrier identification code CIC with the incoming communication that identifies to which network the communication is routed. With this information the LEC transmits the communication to network system A . However it should be appreciated that the LEC may transmit the communication to any network connected to the LEC. Thus although not shown any number of networks may be connected to the LEC for receiving communications from the LEC.

One advantage provided by a system that utilizes the central service hub of is the feature of routing communications intended for a specific network through a separate network. For example network system A is shown connected to the LEC while network system B is not directly connected to the LEC. However utilizing the central service hub the LEC may be configured to transmit communications intended for network system B through network system A . More particularly the database of the LEC may be updated or configured to assign a network system A CIC to communications intended for network system B . Thus as a communication intended for network system B is detected at the LEC the LEC may assign a CIC to that communication that routes the communication first to network system A for processing.

Communications transmitted from the LEC may be received at the network A switch . The network A switch may be any type of telecommunication switch. In one example the network A switch may be a Digital Multiplex System DMS type switch. The network A switch may then query a network A service control point SCP as indicated by communication flow arrow for all received communications to the network. In general the network A SCP is a networking device that applies one or more services to the communication and provides routing information to the network A switch based on the SCP programming. As used herein the SCP may be a service control point for a circuit switch network or part of a next generation packet switch network. For example the SCP may be an application server or routing engine. The network A SCP in may for all network A communications identify the originating device and destination device of the communication and apply services to the communication accordingly. For example for a toll free communication the network A SCP may play a voice message or prompt the caller for additional information to further process the communication. Other services include but are not limited to time of day day of week day of year routing load balancing across multiple data access layers point of origination overflow to a POTS network and interactive voice response menu routing. In addition the network A SCP may provide routing information to the communication based on the information received concerning the communication. For example network A SCP may determine that the communication is intended for network A . In response network A SCP may then provide routing information to the network A switch to transmit the communication to the remaining portion of network A for propagation to the communication destination as indicated in by communication flow arrow .

Network A SCP may also be programmed to recognize communications received that are not intended for that particular network. For example network A SCP may receive a communication intended for transmission through network system B . In this situation network A SCP may provide routing information for the communication back to the network A switch as indicated by communication flow arrow . In addition network A SCP may associate additional information to the network B communication that instructs network A switch to route the communication to the central service hub . Thus upon receiving the network B communication the network A switch routes the communication to the central service hub as indicated by communication flow arrow . Although shown in as being directed to the central service hub from the network A switch it is not required that communication from the network A switch to the central service hub be direct. For example in another implementation network A switch upon receiving a network B communication or any communication not recognized by the network A switch may return the call back to the LEC or other ingress component. The LEC may then route the communication to the central service hub . Thus communication flow arrow represents any communication from the network A switch to the central service hub through any number of components shown or not shown in . Further any number of additional routing tables or engines may be employed by any number of the components of the network to aid in the proper routing of the communication.

Upon receipt of a communication intended for network system B the central service hub may take several actions. In one example the central service hub may be programmed or otherwise configured to mirror an SCP of network system B such that the proper services may be applied to the communication by the central service hub. Thus based on the communication origination and destination and the services offered by network system B services offered by network system B may be applied to the communication even if such services differ than those offered by network system A . In another example the central service hub may query an SCP of network system B such as Network B SCP to determine which services should be applied to a communication that has been received. Upon return from the network system B the central service hub may apply the received services to the communication. Also information about the received communication may be archived or stored for billing purposes associated with the intended network for the communication. Thus the central service hub may note the type of communication the time of day the communication was received the network the communication is intended for etc. and supply that information to a device of the intended network for billing purposes. Alternatively the information may be stored by the central service hub in a database and accessed later by a billing company for billing purposes.

In yet another example the central service hub may recognize the intended network system of the communication and route the communication accordingly without associating any services with the communication. In general regardless of the action taken by the central service hub the hub may then route the communication to network system B as shown by communication flow arrow for transmission through network B and connection of the communication to a destination device . In the example shown in the central service hub queries the network B SCP for routing information to further process the communication. Network B SCP provides routing information to the central service hub to route the communication to the remaining portion of network B as indicated by communication flow arrow . In another example the central service hub may transmit the communication directly to the remaining portion of the network B . Thus through the use of the central service hub the telecommunication system of may receive all communications intended for network system A and network system B through the components of network A while maintaining the proper services for the communication.

Although certain components of the embodiment of are illustrated any number of telecommunications may be included in the processing and flow of the communication. For example any number of additional routing components may be located between the LEC and the network A switch . Similarly any number of networking or routing components may be located between the network A switch and the central service hub . Those of skill in the art will appreciate the complexity and variability of the telecommunication systems described. In another example any number of network systems may be connected to or otherwise associated with the central service hub . Thus a network system C network system D and so on may also be connected to the central service hub such that the communications intended for those networks may also be transmitted through network system A from the LEC and processed by the central service hub. In some examples the additional network systems may include a connection to the LEC but routing through the central service hub may still occur for communications intended for those networks for application of the proper services to the communication.

In an alternate embodiment shown in all communications intended for the network systems connected to the central service hub are routed through the central service hub. In the example shown in communications for network system A are processed by network system A directly without necessarily being routed through the central service hub . In the embodiment of however every communication is routed through the central service hub . Otherwise the operations of the components of the embodiment of are similar to the components described above with reference to FIG. . Thus central service hub may determine to which network system the communication is intended and apply the particular services to the communication and or route the communication to the appropriate network system. More particularly central service hub may take any of the actions described above to process the communication based on the intended network system of the communication. For example the central service hub as well as other hubs discussed herein may include a database of the services offered for a particular network system such that the proper services may be applied to the communication by the central service hub based on the type of communication and other communication information. Thus based on the communication origination and destination and the services offered by network system A certain services may be applied to the communication. Similarly central service hub may include the services available to communications of network system B and apply those services accordingly.

In another example the central service hub may query an SCP of either network system B or network system A to determine which services should be applied to a communication that has been received based on the communication information. Upon return from the available services the central service hub may apply the received services to the communication. Also the central service hub may recognize the intended network system of the communication and route the communication accordingly without applying the available services. Rather such services may be applied by an SCP of the respective network systems when the call is processed by the network systems. In yet another example the central service hub may perform all SCP duties for either network such that a routed communication bypasses the associated network SCP.

Additionally the central service hub device of the embodiment of may be a part of network system A network system B or may be separate from both network systems. Also any number of network systems may be connected to or otherwise in communication with the central service hub such that any number of network communications may be routed through and processed by the central service hub.

Through the use of the embodiments discussed herein several advantages for processing a communication through one or more telecommunication networks may be achieved. For example any network can utilize an existing connection to a local network to receive a communication and apply the appropriate services and billing for that communication and or route the communication to the appropriate network for the application of the services even if the existing connection is a part of a different network or maintained by a separate telecommunication provider. This can reduce the need for redundant connections and services offered by separate networks. In addition a first telecommunication network with a connection to the local network may simply provide the services of a second network behind the scenes such that the participants of the communication are unaware that the communication is not processed by the second network. This may provide an additional revenue stream for the first network while providing uninterrupted service to the clients of the second network.

Further the embodiments described herein provide flexibility in the processing of any communication. As mentioned above telecommunication networks may utilize varying protocols for routing a communication such that one network may use a first protocol such as a time division multiplexing TDM while another network may use a second protocol such as packet switching. In addition some services for a communication may be available for a particular protocol but not others. Thus through the use of a central service hub services typically unavailable for a communication of one network may now be offered for users of that network. For example network system A may be a circuit switch network and may offer only circuit switch specific services. Thus a network system that does not utilize the circuit switch protocol may contract with network system A and the central service hub to provide circuit switch services to a communication and routing through network system A. In this manner additional flexibility of the services offered to a communication and the network protocol used to process the communication may be provided by the user of the central service hub.

In operation the central service hub may receive a communication from a telecommunication device. For example the central service hub may receive the communication from a local network or from a long distance telecommunications network. The communication may be any type of communication that is transmitted through a telecommunication network such as a voice or data communication. A voice communication may include a toll free communication or long distance communication originated by a user at a telephonic device.

In operation the central service hub may analyze the communication for information that may aid the central service hub in processing the communication. For example the communication may include information indicating the originating device from which the communication was initiated the destination device and the type of communication. Other information may also be included including time of day the communication originated and information concerning the network through which the communication is to be transmitted. In general any information about the communication may be included that may aid a telecommunication network in processing and properly routing the communication.

In operation the central service hub may determine based on the information obtained in operation whether one or more services are to be applied to the communication. As discussed above the central service hub may apply one or more services to a communication based on programmed operations within the hub or may route the communication to a proper telecommunications network for application of the services to the communication. Thus the central service hub may include or otherwise have access to a database that indicates the action to be taken for communications of the networks associated with the hub. Further the central service hub may include one or more programs as discussed in more detail below for processing the communications based on the information stored in and obtained from the database. In one example all communications intended for a first network may have services applied to the communication by the central service hub based on the type and information obtained about the communication. Communications intended for a second network may be routed to the second network by the central service hub in response to one or more instructions stored in the central service hub or associated database.

If the central service hub determines in operation that services are to be applied to the communication the hub may apply such services in operation . Services applied to a communication may include customer determined services call routing services information gathering services and billing services. For example for a toll free communication the central service hub may provide a recorded message and detect one or more telephone button selections made by the originator of the communication. In another example the central service hub may note the type of communication the time of day and the destination for the communication and provide such information to a billing system. Other services applied to the communication by the central service hub may be dependent on the information gathered such as the type of communication and products previously purchased by the communication originator. In general any service known or hereafter developed that may be applied to a communication of a telecommunication network for processing of the communication is envisioned being applied to the communication in operation .

If the central service hub determines in operation that services are not to be applied to the communication or after the services have been applied by the central service hub in operation the central service hub may transmit the communication to the designated telecommunication network for further routing. The telecommunication network that receives the communication may be the network designated in the communication information or may be an alternate network as determined by the central service hub. In general any network connected to or associated with the central service hub may receive the communication in operation .

I O device may also include an input device not shown such as an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys for communicating information and or command selections to the processors . Another type of user input device includes cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processors and for controlling cursor movement on the display device.

System may include a dynamic storage device referred to as main memory or a random access memory RAM or other computer readable devices coupled to the processor bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processors . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processors . System may include a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to the processor bus for storing static information and instructions for the processors . The system set forth in is but one possible example of a computer system that may employ or be configured in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure.

According to one embodiment the above techniques may be performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . These instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as a storage device. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory may cause processors to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with the software instructions. Thus embodiments of the present disclosure may include both hardware and software components.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . Such media may take the form of but is not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

It should be noted that the flowcharts of is illustrative only. Alternative embodiments of the present invention may add operations omit operations or change the order of operations without affecting the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The foregoing merely illustrates the principles of the invention. Various modifications and alterations to the described embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the teachings herein. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise numerous systems arrangements and methods which although not explicitly shown or described herein embody the principles of the invention and are thus within the spirit and scope of the present invention. From the above description and drawings it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the particular embodiments shown and described are for purposes of illustrations only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. References to details of particular embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

