---

title: PCI DSS compliant proxy service
abstract: The innovation includes systems and methods of facilitating electronic commerce (e-commerce) via a proxy service. Such a method can include the acts of receiving a hypertext transfer protocol with secure socket layer (HTTPS) request from a client application and translating the HTTPS request to a format appropriate for an e-commerce web application. Additionally, such a method can include the steps of sending the translated request to the e-commerce web application via HTTPS and receiving a response based at least in part on the translated HTTPS request. The method can also include the acts of translating the HTTPS response to a format appropriate for the client application and sending the translated response to the client application via HTTPS. Secure information can be encrypted and stored at the client application separately from the encryption key, which can be stored by the proxy service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886937&OS=08886937&RS=08886937
owner: Resource Interactive, LLC
number: 08886937
owner_city: Columbus
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120312
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 61 451 915 entitled PCI DSS COMPLIANT PROXY SERVICE and filed Mar. 11 2011. The entirety of the above noted application is incorporated by reference herein.

The subject innovation relates to securely transporting information to and from an electronic commerce system.

As product purchases and monetary exchanges continue to emerge via the Internet regulations have been enacted to control how these transactions are consummated. Generally Internet transactions are referred to as electronic commerce or e commerce transactions which refers to the act of buying and selling products and services via electronic systems such as the Internet.

There has been explosive growth in the use of the Internet as a medium for facilitating online ordering and purchasing. However in most merchant cases the effort to build a single e Commerce Web Application to service multiple consumer driven applications can be overwhelming. In most situations a merchant has to build multiple e Commerce Web Applications either acting as individual fulfillment systems or independently connecting to a single fulfillment system.

With continued popularity and ease of these e commerce transactions the amount of trade conducted electronically has grown extraordinarily as Internet usage becomes commonplace in today s society. A large percentage of electronic commerce is conducted entirely electronically e.g. for items such as bill payment money transfers service purchases etc. However many e commerce transactions involve transportation of physical items following an on line purchase.

Along with the emergence of e commerce is a need for regulation to govern these types of transactions. The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS is a worldwide information security standard defined by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council. The standard increases controls related to e commerce data in an attempt to prevent credit card fraud and other malicious attacks. The standard applies to all organizations that hold process or exchange cardholder information from any card branded with the logo of one of the card brands.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the innovation. This summary is not an extensive overview of the innovation. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the innovation or to delineate the scope of the innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the innovation in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation in one aspect thereof can comprise a method of facilitating electronic commerce e commerce . Such a method can include the acts of receiving a hypertext transfer protocol with secure socket layer HTTPS request from a client application and translating the HTTPS request to a format appropriate for an e commerce web application. Additionally such a method can include the steps of sending the translated request to the e commerce web application via HTTPS and receiving a response based at least in part on the translated HTTPS request. The method can also include the acts of translating the HTTPS response to a format appropriate for the client application and sending the translated response to the client application via HTTPS.

In other aspects the subject innovation can comprise an e commerce management system. Such a system can include a proxy service component that can provide for secure communication between a client application and an e commerce web application. The proxy service component can include a client interface component that can receive a request from the client application and an e commerce interface component that can translate the request to a format appropriate for the e commerce web application send the translated request to the e commerce web application and receive a response from the e commerce web application. The client interface component can also translate the response to a format appropriate for the client application and send the translated response to the client application. The system can also include a proxy service data store that can store non sensitive information associated with one or more of the request or the response.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the innovation are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation can be employed and the subject innovation is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the innovation will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the innovation can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the innovation.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

As used herein the term to infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Generally the subject innovation relates to securely transporting information to and from an electronic commerce system. The subject innovation can provide an e Commerce solution that efficiently and cost effectively facilitates product querying and online ordering from an existing e Commerce Web Application in other consumer driven applications without jeopardizing PCI DSS rules and regulations.

In aspects systems and methods of the subject innovation can provide a Proxy Service that can adhere to Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS rules and regulations and can communicate with a Secure Socket Layer SSL encrypted electronic commerce e Commerce Web Application on behalf of a Client Application. As used herein SSL is intended to also encompass related protocols such as Transport Layer Security. The Proxy Service can organize data received from the e Commerce Web Application into a serialized data object. Any organized data that is disallowed for transport in this context according to PCI DSS rules and regulations can be encrypted with a cipher e.g. 256 bit etc. before responding to the Client Application. The Client Application which does not have the salt key can relay the encrypted data back to the Proxy Service but cannot decrypt or make use of the encrypted data itself. The Proxy Service which does have the original salt key can decrypt and once again make use of the encrypted data.

In accordance with the innovation illustrates an example architecture of an e Commerce Management System in accordance with aspects of the innovation. Generally the system can include a Proxy Service Component and a Proxy Service data store that can enable an e commerce transaction between a Client Application and an e Commerce Web Application by facilitating secure e commerce data transfer e.g. via the Internet. In aspects Proxy Service Component can provide a PCI DSS compliant Proxy Service that can be used to facilitate the secure transport of product and transaction data from an existing e Commerce Web Application e.g. an existing web based merchant interface etc. to and or from a Client Application which is the environment that will interface with a customer which can be any of a variety of Client Applications such as different browsers mobile applications etc. .

Proxy Service Component can manage two sessions for every transaction. Proxy component can communicate with Client Application via a client interface component that can manage the session with Client Application e.g. receiving requests from the client application translating responses to a format appropriate for the client application sending the translated response to the client application etc. . In the session with Client Application some information can be stored by the Proxy Service Component at the Proxy Service data store e.g. non sensitive information some information can be sent to the Client Application e.g. non sensitive information and some sensitive information after being encrypted etc. to be stored at a client data store and some information can be stored at both as described further herein. Additionally proxy component can communicate with e Commerce Web Application via an e commerce interface component that can manage the session with e Commerce Web Application e.g. translating requests to a format appropriate for the e Commerce Web Application sending requests to the e Commerce Web Application receiving responses from the e Commerce Web Application etc. . In aspects the session with e Commerce Web Application can be implemented by proxy component e.g. by way of e commerce interface component via an Application Programming Interface API tailored specifically to the e Commerce Web Application . In various embodiments Proxy Service can enables a Programmer to create an API to communicate with the e Commerce Web Application . In some aspects all web based communications interacting with the Proxy Service Component can take place via Programmer implemented APIs. A Programmer can utilize the Proxy Service Component to interpret an e Commerce Web Application and can translate it into a set of API functions specific to the e Commerce Web Application . These API functions can allow multiple Client Applications to interface with the e Commerce Web Application across SSL via Proxy Service Component .

According to one aspect of the invention every transaction that takes place via the Proxy Service Component can strictly adhere to the guidelines set forth by the PCI Security Standards Council for e commerce transactions the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard PCI DSS . In such aspects all web based communications interacting with the Proxy Service can take place over SSL. All sessions with e Commerce Web Application can be isolated and abstracted from the Client Application to prevent or alleviate man in the middle attacks. The Proxy Service Component need not save data related to credit card holder information on any data storage device including but not limited to local hard drives network mounted hard drives database applications or removable media any or all of which are intended to be encompassed within Proxy Service data store . In the event that data must be maintained between proxied actions it can be encrypted by Proxy Service Component and sent to the Client Application to be stored in client data store for later use as substantially any local data storage mechanism accessible to the Client Application e.g. cookie local shared object javascript object etc . The Client Application can return the encrypted data back to the Proxy Service on a subsequent request where it can then be decrypted and re used. In various aspects Client Application is not provided the salt key to decrypt the encrypted data stored in client data store .

Workflow can begin at wherein the Client Application can submit an HTTPS request e.g. GET or POST form data PUT DELETE etc. at . This can be transmitted at as an HTTPS hypertext transfer protocol with SSL request to Proxy Service Component . After receiving the request at Proxy Service Component can translate the request to a format appropriate for e Commerce Web Application which will depend on aspects of e Commerce Web Application and can be based on an API developed to work specifically with e Commerce Web Application as explained herein. At the translated request can be sent via SSL by Proxy Service Component to e Commerce Web Application . E Commerce Web Application can process the request at and respond with the resulting data at which will depend on the nature of the request and the specifics e Commerce Web Application e.g. whether a product is being selected payment information is being provided etc. . At the response can be sent via SSL from e Commerce Web Application to Proxy Service Component . At the received response can be translated to a format appropriate for Client Application . The translated response can be sent via SSL at from Proxy Service Component to Client Application . At Client Application can receive the response which can be presented to a client interacting with Client Application .

From the standpoint of Proxy Service Component the flow of can be substantially as follows. An HTTPS request can be received at translated to a format appropriate for e Commerce Web Application at and the translated request can be sent via SSL at . The workflow can continue for the Proxy Service Component at where an HTTPS response is received. The response can be translated at to a format appropriate for Client Application and the translated response can be sent via SSL at . In aspects communications with Client Application can take place via client interface component while communications between Proxy Service Component and e Commerce Web Application can take place via e commerce interface component .

Referring to the workflow or method of according to various aspects of the innovation the Proxy Service Component can be utilized by a programmer to create an Application Programming Interface API tailored to a specific e Commerce Web Application . In embodiments all web based communications interacting with the Proxy Service Component can take place via Programmer implemented APIs. In such embodiments a Programmer can utilize the Proxy Service Component to interpret an e Commerce Web Application and can translate it into a set of API functions specific to the e Commerce Web Application . These API functions can allow multiple Client Applications to interface with the same e Commerce Web Application across SSL.

With continued reference to an example API workflow or method of a series of transactions used in a Proxy Service API implementation is shown. It is to be understood that the specific acts shown are merely examples and that in connection with various e Commerce Web Applications additional or alternative acts may take place that can also be implemented via an API created via Proxy Service Component . Also it is to be understood that Client Application is responsible for making requests to the Proxy Service in a meaningful sequence and this sequence of actions e.g. actions can differ from one implementation to the next. Actions are only one such sequence of actions.

The example workflow can include the following acts. At Client Application can retrieve product information from the e Commerce Website Application via the Proxy Service . This retrieval of product information can be via an HTTP and or HTTPS GET request and can proceed according to a workflow such as workflow described in connection with encompassing steps . The retrieval of product information via HTTP GET in this instance as opposed to HTTPS can remain compliant with PCI DSS in instances when a stateless e.g. anonymous request can be made to the e Commerce Website Application . Next at the Client Application can add a product to a shopping cart on the e Commerce Website Application via the Proxy Service using proxy data. As with action action as well as actions can proceed according to workflow of however for ease of illustration specific steps of workflow are only indicated in connection with action . At Client Application can submit shipping information to the e Commerce Website Application via the Proxy Service using proxy data and at the Client Application can submit billing information to the e Commerce Website Application via the Proxy Service using proxy data. Next at Client Application can submit a request to review order information from the e Commerce Website Application via the Proxy Service using proxy data. Finally at Client Application can submit the current order to the e Commerce Website Application via the Proxy Service using proxy data. Again as is to be understood the specific sequence of actions will depend upon requests made via the Client Application and may also depend on the specific nature of e Commerce Web Application which could provide for or necessitate additional or alternative actions etc. .

In accordance with aspects of the innovation illustrates an embodiment of a data workflow or method that can be performed by Client Application as it interacts with Proxy Service . Workflow can begin at and proceed to step wherein user input data can be collected e.g. selecting a product submitting billing or shipping information etc. . Next at step Client Application can determine if any previously collected encrypted session data was stored or not. If it was the workflow can proceed to where the Client Application can retrieve the stored session object for example by reading the encrypted session object at from client storage e.g. client data store etc. . Then at the encrypted data can be combined with the collected user input. At the Client Application can build a request object e.g. GET POST etc. for the intended Proxy Service functionality based on the user input either with or without encrypted session data depending on the determination at . The Client Application can call the Proxy Service at and send the request e.g. via HTTPS etc. to it at . At the Proxy Service can take any appropriate actions based on the request sent at and can send a response e.g. via HTTPS etc. at back to the Client Application . At the Client Application can organize the response data e.g. generate output to a user etc. and at can determine if the response data included encrypted data. If not workflow can end at where it can begin again if appropriate based on user input . If the response includes encrypted data e.g. a positive determination is made at then at the encrypted data can be stored by writing the encrypted session object at to the client storage .

Turning to illustrated is an example data workflow or method of a proxy service upon receiving a request e.g. via HTTPS etc. from a client application . In aspects workflow can be implemented at step of workflow although it need not be. The workflow can begin at and proceed to wherein the proxy service can organize the submitted request data e.g. of request if workflow is implemented in conjunction with workflow . Next at proxy service can determine if any encrypted session data was submitted or not as part of the request. If so the workflow can proceed to step where the salt key can be rebuilt and the encrypted session data can be decrypted. At the decrypted data can be combined with the unencrypted data. Next at the proxy service can organize the request data e.g. either just unencrypted data or unencrypted data combined with decrypted data if a positive determination was made at into proper API request parameters. At the proxy service can execute the appropriate proxy API call based at least in part on the API request parameters organized at . Proxy API which can in aspects be implemented as a sub component of proxy component such as in connection with e commerce interface component can at transform the API request parameters into a format that is compatible with e Commerce Web Application . At the proxy component e.g. via Proxy API etc. can submit the transformed request parameters to the e Commerce Web Application as request . At e commerce web application can perform any appropriate actions based on request e.g. process the request and respond with any resulting data etc. and at send a response to proxy component . After receiving the response at the Proxy API at can transform the response data into a format that is compatible with the Proxy Service . At the proxy service can organize the response data into an appropriate format for transmission to client application . This can involve a determination made at whether any sensitive data e.g. data indicated as sensitive according to PCI DSS etc. was returned to proxy service as part of the transformed response data. If sensitive data was returned then at the proxy service can rebuild the salt key and encrypt the sensitive data. If not or once the sensitive data has been encrypted then a response can be generated for the client application e.g. organizing the data in an appropriate format for the client application etc. and the workflow can end at with proxy service returning appropriate response data to the client application .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject innovation and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the innovation can be implemented. While the innovation has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the innovation also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the innovation may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the innovation includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject innovation.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the innovation.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the innovation can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment in accordance with the subject innovation. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the innovation for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the innovation for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the innovation are possible. Accordingly the innovation is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

