---

title: Teleradiology image processing system
abstract: A teleradiology image processing system configured to process radiology read requests and digital radiology image data is disclosed. In one embodiment, a radiology processing system includes a series of processing components configured to receive digital radiology data from a medical provider, extract relevant information and radiology scan images from the digital radiology data, and initiate and control a workflow with a qualified remote radiologist who ultimately performs a read of the radiology scan images. Further embodiments also facilitate data processing within the image processing system in response to medical facility rules and preferences; translation or conversion of digital images to other formats; compilation of patient and medical facility data obtained from the digital radiology data into medical records or data stores; assignment of radiology studies within a teleradiology workflow in response to licensing and credentialing rules; and billing functions in response to completed reads by the remote radiologist.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515778&OS=08515778&RS=08515778
owner: Virtual Radiologic Corporation
number: 08515778
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120417
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 870 271 entitled TELERADIOLOGY IMAGE PROCESSING SYSTEM filed on Aug. 27 2010 which is a continuation in part of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 783 073 filed May 19 2010 and entitled Multiple Resource Planning System which is a continuation of prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 288 645 filed Nov. 28 2005 and entitled Multiple Resource Planning System which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 656 215 filed Feb. 25 2005 by Backhaus and entitled Automated Credentialing and Licensing System 60 682 052 filed May 17 2005 by Backhaus et al. and entitled Integrated Caching Environment with Order Form Pre population 60 694 880 filed Jun. 29 2005 by Backhaus et al. and entitled Medical Data Management Method and System 60 699 119 filed Jul. 14 2005 by Backhaus et al. and entitled Medical Data Transfer System and Method 60 740 454 filed Nov. 28 2005 by Backhaus et al. and entitled Medical Data Transfer System and Method 60 740 589 filed Nov. 28 2005 by Casey and entitled Remote Scanning System and Method and 60 740 527 filed Nov. 28 2005 by Casey and entitled Patient Information Translation Method and System the entirety of all of the preceding applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to the processing of medical images and related data. The present invention more specifically relates to a radiology processing system such as a teleradiology image order management system configured for providing features in connection with a radiology workflow.

Medical images generated by an imaging modality such as X rays CAT computerized axial tomography scans and MRI s Magnetic Resonance Imaging are commonly digitized to facilitate reading by doctors at remote locations. In use hospitals and other healthcare providers commonly use systems to capture and digitize the medical images. The medical images are typically transmitted from the modality to a remote image server such as a Picture Archiving and Communications System PACS . This transmission may occur over a network such as an intranet or the Internet.

Additionally the hospital may also transmit orders corresponding to the images to an order server such as a Radiologist Information System RIS . Orders are used to request a doctor to interpret or read the images and return a diagnostic report. Orders may also contain additional information related to the image or the patient such as a patient identifier the procedure type associated with the image patient demographic information and a hospital identifier. Thus orders may be submitted by hospitals and healthcare providers to identify the patient and instruct the radiologist to provide information for a specific medical condition.

Processing systems used in radiological practices generally route images and orders to doctors in a fixed manner. For example all of the images and orders may be transmitted from the scanning area of a hospital to a set of doctors that work in the radiology department of the same hospital. The doctors may be at the hospital or access the images with remote systems.

In teleradiology settings the radiologist analyzes the image at a remote location and returns the diagnostic report. The diagnostic report may be transmitted through the network to the order server the teleradiology RIS which in turn may forward the report to the hospital or other medical facility that originally transmitted the order and images corresponding to the report. In contrast in hospital radiology settings the image and order systems are typically internal to the hospital. For example an emergency center may scan a patient digitize the images and transmit them to an image server e.g. a PACS at the hospital. Likewise the emergency center may enter an order that is sent to an order server at the hospital using an internal RIS. Both the images and orders may then be transmitted to a radiology department which is located at the hospital. As is evident much more complexity exists for the assignment transfer and review of radiology orders and data in teleradiology or remote viewing settings.

One aspect of the present invention relates to the integration and operation of a radiology processing system including the various aspects of data transferred between various parties and locations in a teleradiology setting. In one embodiment a set of components within the radiology processing system interact with each other to place and process radiology studies and study associated data. The operation of these components further effect an enhanced workflow of the radiology studies and the radiology read orders and images associated therewith particularly in a teleradiology setting where a remote radiologist is selected from a pool of eligible radiologists. The radiology processing system acts to process relevant information from the radiology study and assign the radiology study to the remote radiologist with a defined workflow. Other activities related to the teleradiology read such as medical facility billing radiologist compensation data processing and radiology study forecasting may be further facilitated within the teleradiology processing system through the collection and processing of data.

In one specific embodiment disclosed herein a radiology image processing system contains components modules or other similar processing structures and hardware to facilitate image processing order processing data processing and a teleradiology workflow. The image processing component may be configured to digitally store transmit and facilitate the display of a plurality of digital radiology images received from one or more medical facilities each of the plurality of digital radiology images being part of a radiology study derived from one or more radiology scan procedures. The order processing component may be configured to process and transmit radiology read orders received from the one or more medical facilities the radiology read orders corresponding to the plurality of digital radiology images within a radiology study.

The data component may be configured to collect data from the plurality of digital radiology images received at the image processing component and the orders received with the order processing component in addition to defining and implementing rules for the examination of the radiology study. In combination with the data component a workflow component may be configured to assign the orders and the plurality of digital radiology images to a qualified member of a pool of remote radiologists for review. The workflow component may also factor licensing and credentialing qualifications and medical facility or teleradiology service provider preferences when assigning the orders and the images to the qualified member.

Further components within the radiology image processing system may include a billing component configured to facilitate billing of radiology services with the one or more medical facilities whose operation may further be customized based on content within the plurality of digital radiology images a forecasting component configured to estimate levels of adequate radiologist staffing for future radiology reads a compensation component configured to track compensation for radiologist activities an access control component configured to provide security and restrict access to defined functions within the system enhanced features of the data processing component to interface with medical record and radiology information systems and enhanced features of the image processing component to convert radiology image data into a variety of digital image formats and or transmit image data to defined digital locations.

Other specific embodiments disclosed herein include methods for processing radiology images using a teleradiology workflow in accordance with the techniques described herein and computer program products configured for processing radiology images in a teleradiology workflow with the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable code embodied therewith each of these computer program products executable on computing hardware and machines to implement the techniques described herein.

One of the aspects of the present invention disclosed herein includes the configuration and interaction of a plurality of operating components within a teleradiology processing system. Within the processing system the operating components interact with each other to place and process teleradiology orders and facilitate reads of radiological images. The configuration and interactions between the operating components provides notable efficiencies and enable a dynamic workflow for the review of radiology image studies. Further the data processing which occurs within the processing system allows the customization and enforcement of rules covering radiologist compensation forecasting and assignment of teleradiology orders.

Referring to an operating configuration of an example teleradiology system is illustrated. The system can be used for capturing medical image data in one location and for reviewing medical images associated with the data in another location. The system may include many geographically separated imaging devices and many image review terminals. As further described herein system might be configured to operate as a remote teleradiology system connected to a plurality of healthcare locations or alternatively system may be configured to a generally localized radiology system used in a single hospital healthcare provider network or private radiology practice.

For purposes of illustration the teleradiology system illustrated in includes an imaging system at a medical facility an image order IO management system and an image review system . The imaging system at the medical facility for example may include an imaging device such as a CT computer tomography scanner an MRI magnetic resonance imaging scanner or another imaging modality. Using an energy source such as x rays or magnetic fields for example the imaging device may capture image data associated with a subject e.g. a patient .

The imaging device may be controlled by a radiology technician through the use of a workstation terminal or other electronic control . Prior to the radiology technician conducting the scan of a patient information is entered into the terminal . In most medical devices this information must be manually entered via an input device such as a keyboard or bar code reader operably coupled to the terminal . This information is then placed within the image itself. For example the imaging device may produce radiological images generally consistent with the DICOM format other industry accepted standards or proprietary standards.

Consistent with the appropriate image format the images produced by the image data source may include metadata. This metadata may be generated by the imaging device and or by the technician input collected by the terminal . Further the series of images may be obtained directly by the imaging device in the facility shown in or may be transferred in whole or in part from another image capturing device connected to the imaging device modality or the facility s local network. The imaging data source may also be transmitted through use of a local facility imaging server not shown such as a Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine DICOM server or other PACS.

The metadata within each imaging data file or DICOM data transmission may include identification information such as patient identifier and an identifier of the series of images in addition to information about the type of modality and the techniques used to obtain the images. Further for images formatted according to the DICOM standard data fields such as a unique image identifier a unique study identifier the patient s name and the facility from which the image originates may be included within the metadata.

The image data generated by the imaging device may include a series of two dimensional images. In some implementations the image data may be used to produce a three dimensional model that can be further manipulated and reformatted for generating two dimensional or three dimensional images. Image data captured by the imaging device may be stored and processed by the IO Management System or another imaging device server e.g. one or more computers with a processor and a memory and may be provided to other systems and computers in the system through network e.g. an intranet or the Internet .

In some implementations image data provided to the IO Management System results in data being stored and processed by one or more computers. For example the IO Management System may determine that the image data is to be forwarded to a system user e.g. a radiologist at an image review system . As shown image data may be provided by the IO Management System to the image review system through the network .

The image review system for example may include an image display server e.g. one or more computers with a processor and a memory a display device e.g. a monitor and input devices A B e.g. keyboards computer mice joysticks touch interfaces voice recognition interfaces and the like . In some implementations image data may be processed by the image display server and visually presented to the user as one or more images at the display device . Using the input devices A B the user may interact with the presented images for example by manipulating one or more user controls included in a graphical user interface presented at the display device in association with the images. For example the user may view an image or a series of related images and may specify one or more image adjustments such as zooming panning rotating changing contrast changing color changing view angle changing view depth changing rendering or reconstruction technique and the like. By viewing and interacting with presented image data and with the user interface for example the user may produce and indicate a diagnostic finding related to the subject .

When the IO Management System receives the image it may process the image with an image server component. This processing may include compressing or converting the image to a different format using a compressor converter module. This image server may also operate to extract metadata from each image file in a series of radiology scan images. For example the extracted metadata may include header data for the image providing patient information and hospital information for the hospital that sent the image. The image server may then store all or part of the extracted information in a study record that may be correlated with appropriate orders and studies.

The images may also contain information such as the medical facility A that sent the image the number of images in the transmission the patient name and other patient demographic information. The orders may contain information about a patient such as name medical history and the reason the image was taken. The order may also include a description of an associated image such as a pelvic abdominal scan a number of images associated with the order and an order type such as preliminary or final read. The presence of the patient name and other patient information may enable a particular image to be linked with a particular order.

The IO Management System may store the images and orders and assign the orders to appropriate users at the client devices . For example the IO Management System may assign an order from a medical facility A to a radiologist at a client device A. If the radiologist accepts the order the IO Management System makes the images associated with the order available to the radiologist for viewing as indicated by arrows and . The radiologist can interpret the images and send a report back to the IO Management System as represented by arrows and . The IO Management System then forwards the report to the originating medical facility as indicated by arrows and where the report is used in a diagnosis for the patient.

The IO Management System may be implemented on a single computing device or on multiple computing devices such as a server farm. In one implementation the IO Management System is disbursed over several servers that are connected through a network . This configuration may be advantageous by permitting easy expansion of the system and flexibility in managing the flow of received and output images and orders.

Medical facilities may send images and orders at the same time as one another or at different times. Images orders and reports may be sent over the same network or different networks. For example the IO Management System may receive images and orders through a single T1 connection to the Internet or the images may be received from the Internet through a T1 connection and the orders may be received through a modem connection. In another example the IO Management System receives an image and an order from a medical facility over the Internet and return a corresponding report to the medical facility over a fax connection.

Additionally the images and orders may be sent separately or combined in one transmission. For instance a computing device at a medical facility may use software that sends the orders and the images with a single application and single set of actions or the medical facility may send the images using one application that sends one transmission and send the orders using a different application that sends a separate transmission.

The network over which the images and orders are sent from the medical facilities to the IO Management System may be a secure network such as a virtual private network VPN . The VPN may include a secure computing device or terminal at the medical facility encrypted transmissions sent through the network and a secure computing device at the remote technician system . The transmission of encrypted scanning information requests and commands may also include the use of the Secure Socket Layer SSL communications. In this implementation the medical facility may have a public key which is issued by the remote technician system . The public key may be used to encrypt communications transmitted to the system and the remote technician system may then use a private key to decrypt the transmitted communication. In another implementation a remote desktop application such as the Citrix application produced by Citrix Systems Inc. of Fort Lauderdale Fla. may be used. For example the medical facility may have a Citrix server installed in a console server. A Citrix client installed at the remote technician system can communicate with the Citrix server using encrypted messages such as RSA encrypted messages.

In the IO Management System there may be an Access Control Module that controls users access to the IO Management System . Users may include staff at a hospital imaging center medical research facility or other medical facility and radiologists at the client devices . For example the Access Control Module may include a remote desktop application such as Terminal Services that allows users to login to the IO Management System . In another example the Access Control Module may include an application portal accessible from the remote desktop or from the Internet with individual logins and passwords for each user. If the Access Control Module grants access to a user at the medical facility A the user sends images and orders or receives reports as indicated by arrows and respectively. If an order is assigned to and accepted by a radiologist at the client device A the radiologist retrieves the order and its images or sends a report.

The Access Control Module may also monitor the connectivity status of the medical facilities or the client devices . For example control module may monitor whether a secure network connection between the medical facilities or the client devices and the IO Management System is operational.

Additionally the Access Control Module may monitor and log information such as which users access the system for how long what applications are accessed what type of data is transferred and how much data is transferred to the user. This information is stored in the Data Module and may be used for purposes of billing and compensation discussed below.

When an image is received by the IO Management System and accepted by the Access Control Module it may be sent to a Production Module . The Production Module may handle real time processing in the IO Management System such as managing the workflow of orders and images. The Production Module may forward the image to an Image Server as indicated by arrows and for storage. The Image Server may be part of a Picture Archive Communication System PACS which may digitally store transmit and facilitate the display of radiology images.

The Production Module and the Image Server may communicate in different formats so the IO Management System may include a Messaging Module to facilitate communication between the server and the Production Module. For example if the Production Module is able to read text files as input the Messaging Module may take output from another source such as the Image Server and convert it into a text file format that the Production Module can interpret.

Alternatively the Production or Messaging Modules may communicate directly with the Image Server through an API Application Programming Interface implemented by the Image Server . The API may provide an interface independent of the internal data structures of the Image Server . This enables communication even if the server software is updated because the functions used by the interface remain available even if internal structures or functions within the server change. Additionally this may eliminate the need to have the Image Server authorize direct inputs of data into internal structures.

When an order is received by the IO Management System and accepted by the Access Control Module it may be sent to the Production Module . The Production Module may forward the image to an Order Server such as a Radiology Information System RIS as represented by arrows and for processing. The Messaging Module may process communication between the Production Module and the Order Server .

Once the IO Management System receives an order the Production Module may assign the order to a user of a client device . The Production Module may also assign the order to several users at several client devices . If the Access Control Module grants a user of a client device access the user may retrieve orders from the Order Server and images from the Image Server as indicated by arrows and .

In a further embodiment the IO Management System may have an Operations Module that performs business related operations such as billing and compensation. Additionally the IO Management System may have a Data Module that stores data needed by the IO Management System . For example radiologist compensation rules and medical facility billing rules may be included in the Data Module . Billing and compensation are further discussed in the description of .

The IO Management System also may include an ASP Application Service Provider module . The ASP module provides a user of the client device access to orders and images from the Order and Image Servers respectively. Access to these servers is indicated by the arrows and . The ASP module is described in greater detail in association with .

The Medical Facilities may include several components for maintaining medical information and transmitting orders and images. For example the Medical Facility A may include a Facility Image Server which uses an image compressor . The Facility A may also include a Facility Order Server which transmits orders to the Order Server implemented at the IO Management System . In one implementation the Facility A may include a Legacy Facility Order Server . A translator translates and communicates orders from the Legacy Facility Order Server to the Facility Order Server . A HIS hospital information system may be connected to the Legacy Facility Order Server the Facility Image Server and the Facility Order Server . The Medical Facility A may transmit an alert to the IO Management System when patient information is updated. This will be described in greater detail below.

The Facility Image Server may store and transmit images to the IO Management System . The Facility Image Server may directly receive the images from an image source such as an MRI machine CT scanner or X Ray machine not shown . When transmitting the images the Facility Image Server may use the Image Compressor to encode the images in a compressed format before transmission to the IO Management System . The compressed format may be compatible with the native format of the Image Server implemented at the IO Management System so that no translation is necessary for the Image Server to receive and process the images. Use of the native format may decrease undesirable data loss in translation decrease translation errors and improve the speed at which images are transferred to the Image Server .

In another implementation the Facility Image Server does not use the Image Compressor so images are transmitted in an uncompressed format such as the DICOM format. The Image Server at the IO Management System then translates the DICOM image data into its native format before it is stored or processed in the Image Server . In other implementations the Image Compressor compresses the images in a format that is not native to the Image Server at the IO Management System . The compressed image is then decompressed and translated into the Server s native format or it is translated directly without being decompressed. The Server may include different modules that are responsible for translation of different image server formats such as a RadWorks translator an E Med translator and an IDX translator.

The Facility Image Server may work in cooperation with a Facility Order Server . In one implementation the Facility Order Server is interfaced in such a way as to easily exchange data. For instance the Facility Image and Facility Order Servers may share a native formatting scheme. This enables data to be exchanged between the servers without the need for extensive translation or any translation at all. In another implementation each of the servers implements APIs that facilitate the exchange of data and the control of functionality resident in each of servers.

The Facility Order Server may store and transmit textual medical information to the IO Management System . In one implementation the Facility Order Server may transmit order information in a format that is native to the Order Server implemented in the IO Management System . The Facility Order Server may also send the order information in a compressed format through an order compressor not shown . The Order Server may decompress the order information and translate it if necessary before ingesting the information.

The Facility Legacy Order Server may be a system that is used by the Medical Facility A to input orders. The system may be an older system or a system that is not tightly interfaced with the Facility Image Server . Also the Facility Legacy Order Server may not be able to transmit order information in the native format of the Order Server implemented at the IO Management System . The orders may be entered into the Facility Legacy Order Server and translated into a format compatible with the Facility Order Server which may then take advantage of communication schemes between the Facility Image Server and the Order Server that decreases transmission error and increases transmission speed. Utilizing the Legacy Facility Order Server the translator and the Facility Order Server may enable medical facility personnel to obtain the benefits of the Order Server without switching user interfaces based on the Legacy Facility Order Server .

The HIS may store medical information for the medical facility . The information may include demographic information medical history order information images and completed reports associated with specific patients. The HIS may be networked to the Legacy Order Server the Facility Order Server the facility image server and other medical databases used by the medical facility such as accounting databases. In one implementation the HIS is the primary storage system for the medical facility that permits access to all or most of a patient s medical data. The HIS may communicate with the other system servers such as the Order Servers in a standard protocol. For example the HIS and the Legacy Facility Order Server may communicate using HL7 compliant communications.

More specifically each medical facility may contain or otherwise access a HIS which is a system that stores patient information. The HIS may include several computing devices such as Personal Computers PCs servers terminals and storage devices such as individual hard drives and RAID Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks systems. A computing device is networked or interfaced with the HIS and may transmit requests for patient information and receive transmitted patient information.

The IO Management System may include an Access Control Module which is used to verify authorization of patient information requests. If a request for patient information is authorized the Access Control Module may permit access to the Data Module which may contain a registry .

The registry may include information linking patient information with network addresses for medical facilities . The network addresses may be provided to a requesting medical facility A and is used by the facility A to establish a direct connection with the medical facility B that contains the requested patient information. If the network address is not found in the registry the request is forwarded to a separate registry server that contains a secondary registry . The secondary registry is accessed to determine if it contains the specified network address and if it does the address is forwarded through the IO Management System or it is forwarded directly to the medical facility A.

For example a patient is admitted to the medical facility A. A doctor at the medical facility may wish to review the patient s previous medical history including images corresponding reports and medical files. The doctor or a technician may use the computing device A to make a request for the patient s information. The patient may have a patient ID identifier which uniquely identifies the patient. The patient ID may be a series of numbers letters words symbols or a combination thereof. The request for patient information may include the patient ID. The computing device A may transmit the request to the IO Management System as shown by arrow .

The Access Control Module may determine whether a particular user is authorized to request the patient information. A list of authorized persons may be stored in a Data Module and checked by the Access Control Module to determine whether the requester is an authorized person. The list may contain categories of people that are authorized by default to request patient information such as all medical doctors or medical personnel the patient which is associated with the information and the parents of a minor patient. Other groups of people may be given access on an individual basis such as the insurer for the patient and legal representatives for the patient.

In another implementation the user transmits proof of authorization with the request for patient information. The proof may include information such as a digital signature of the patient an encrypted token or key associated with the patient or a digital representation of an authorization form.

In one implementation the patient grants the access after a request for the patient s information has been received by the Access Control Module . When the request is made the Access Control Module sends an alert such as an email or an automated phone call to the patient using contact information in the patient s information. The alert may include an identification of the person or facility requesting the information what type of information is requested why the information is being requested and how to approve or disapprove the request. The patient or a legal representative of the patient may approve or deny the request by logging into the Access Control Module and entering information verifying the patient s identity such as a user name and password and electronic signature or an encrypted key or token. The patient may then authorize or deny the request. The request may be authorized on a one time basis on a time period basis e.g. the patient may grant access to the records for three months or on a permanent basis. Additionally the authorization may be granted for entire medical facilities or individuals whether or not they have requested the patient s information yet.

Alternatively the patient may store some or all of the patient information on a computer readable medium such as a CD ROM a subcutaneously implanted micro device a USB device or other flash or portable memory device. For example the CD ROM may be inserted in a CD ROM device and read by the computer at the client device or at a medical facility and transmitted to the IO Management System . Similarly a USB device may be inserted into a USB port at the client device or at the medical facility . The information is read from the USB device and transferred to the IO Management System. Alternatively the implanted micro device is an encapsulated microchip such as a radio frequency RF microchip. The microchip is read by a RF scanning device by placing the skin where it is implanted near the reader. The reader may then transmit information to the IO Management System .

In one implementation a patient may edit his or her demographic information by inserting or positioning the computer readable medium so that the information it contains is accessed. Then the data on the computer readable medium is synchronized with the edited data stored by the IO Management System . The client device initiates the synchronization process by transmitting a change alert to the IO Management System where the change alert signifies that the patient information has been modified or supplemented. The change alert may include a patient identifier that specifies which patient records need to be updated. After receiving the change alert the IO Management System may request the updated patient information from the client device . The client device may transmit all of the information stored on the computer readable medium. The IO Management System replaces the existing patient information stored in the Data Module information for the patient corresponding to the patient identifier with the updated patient information transmitted from the client device. Alternatively client device transmits only the supplemented or modified patient information. In this case the IO Management System may only replace the existing patient information that has been modified and may add the supplemental information to the existing patient information for the patient specified by the patient identifier.

Alternatively the data is synchronized with the patient information stored on the IO Management System anytime the medium is accessed by the client device . Additionally when the medium is accessed the client device may transmit a request to the IO Management System to update the medium with any new patient information.

In one implementation an update module stored either on the medium or on the client device is executed by the client device . The update module establishes a TCP IP session between the client device and the IO Management System . The module then transmits an update request and a patient identifier. The IO Management System locates the patient information associated with the patient identifier in Data Module and transmits the information to the client device . Additionally the IO Management System may query the medical facilities as discussed above to receive the patient information. The patient information is then transmitted to the client device and written to the medium. At a later time when the patient is admitted to a medical facility the medical facility may retrieve the medical information from the computer readable medium using a computing device instead of requesting it from the IO Management System .

Alternatively the medium is part of an authorization scheme. A patient may receive an alert that prompts the patient to insert or position the medium for reading by a client device . For example the alert may be an e mail sent to a patient e mail address by the IO Management System . The patient s e mail address is stored in the Data Module at the IO Management System with the patient s medical data. The IO Management System may access the patient s e mail address and use a mail server program to transmit the e mail message. The alert may also be a telephone message. The IO Management System may retrieve the patient s telephone number from the patient information stored in Data Module . The system then transmits the telephone number to an automatic dialing device which calls the patient and gives an automated message instructing the patient to insert the medium into the client device .

Once the medium is accessed by the client device the device may search the medium for an identity tag associated with a patient s identification. The identity tag may be a private key or an encrypted token known only to the patient. The client device may transmit a proof that the medium contains the identity tag or it may submit an encrypted version of the identity tag. The IO Management System receives the proof or the encrypted version and verifies the proof or decrypts the version respectively. The proof is verified by comparing it against patient identity information stored for the submitting patient in Data Module . Alternatively the decrypted version is compared to the patient identity information stored in the Data Module . After the patient s identity is verified by the IO Management System the system may transmit a request for the patient to approve or deny an access request to the patient s information submitted by a third party.

The request may also be approved automatically based on information stored within the medium such as a pre approved list of medical facilities or individuals. For example the client device may query the medium to determine if a pre approval list exists. If the list is present the client device may determine if the third party requesting access is included on list. If the third party is included on the list the client device may transmit a response indicating the access request is approved. Alternatively the IO Management System may store the pre approval list with the patient information in the Data Module and the system may determine if the third party submitting the access request is pre approved without sending an alert to the patient.

In another implementation the medium may store all or part of the registry which is described more fully below. For example the medium may store a registry entry for the patient who uses the medium. The registry is read from the medium by a medical facility when a patient is admitted. The registry may contain network addresses that identifies where the patient information is stored such as servers in other medical facilities or database files on the IO Management System . In one implementation the medical facility may have an information retrieval module which uses the network address to retrieve the patient information. The information retrieval module may use secure file transfer protocol SFTP to establish a TCP IP socket connection to the device specified by the network address. The retrieval module may then request and receive the patient information.

After authorization the registry may be accessed as shown by arrow . The patient ID may be compared with the patient IDs stored within the registry. If a patient ID in the registry matches the patient ID associated with the request for patient information the registry may determine if a network address is associated with the patient ID. The network address may be an address such as an IP Internet protocol address or a URL uniform resource locator which identifies the location of a computing device on a network. If the registry has one or more network addresses associated with the patient ID it may return the network addresses to the computing device A as shown by arrows and . The network addresses may identify a computing device B at a medical facility B that includes a HIS B that contains information for the patient associated with patient ID.

If the registry does not contain a network address for a medical facility B it may contain a network address for a registry server which may contain a secondary registry . The secondary registry may also contain patient IDs and network addresses for medical facilities that contain patient information associated with the patient IDs. This permits decentralization of the registry information. For example the secondary registry may be responsible for maintaining patient IDs and associated network addresses for a region such as city county state or country. If a request for patient information is made to the registry the registry may forward it as shown in by the arrow to the secondary registry responsible for maintaining that information.

If the secondary registry contains a network address associated with the patient ID this information may be transmitted back to the IO Management System which may transmit it to the medical facility A as shown by arrow . Alternatively the registry server may transmit the network address to the medical facility A directly not shown without transmitting information to the IO Management System .

Secondary registries may hold information which is duplicative of information stored in the registry . This duplicative information may be used to insure the registry information is correct by checking it against information stored in other registries. Additionally storing the information in more than one location and on more than one machine may provide benefits such as a backup in case of data failure and a security measure to prevent all data from being compromised if the system is accessed by unauthorized users.

In another implementation the registry server is queried instead of the IO Management System . Distributing the registries among several computing devices may increase the response time to the queries for patient information and decrease message traffic required bandwidth and computational load on the IO Management System .

If neither the registry implemented at the IO Management System nor the secondary registry contains a network address associated with the patient ID the IO Management System may return a negative response to the requesting medical facility A indicating that no network addresses are available. In another implementation the IO Management System may initiate queries to medical data storage systems at medical facilities for information associated with that patient ID if no network addresses are found. The queries may be transmitted to the computing devices at each facility . If a facility is found that contains information associated with the patient ID the network address for the computing device may be added to registry and transmitted to the requesting medical facility.

If a network address is returned to a requesting medical facility A the facility A may use it to establish a direct link as shown by arrow with the medical facility B which contains patient information associated with the patient ID. In one implementation the Facility A may then request and receive patient information from the facility B. In another implementation and the facilities may exchange patient information that is related to the patient ID.

This scheme may also be employed by the users of client devices to obtain patient information. For example a patient a remote doctor or an insurance company employee may request patient information associated with a patient ID. Client software installed on the client device may permit the request to be transmitted and the network address to be received. Client software may then establish a connection with the medical facility B and download the patient information for display. The software may include applications such as a Web browser and plug ins for the Web browser that enable a browser to perform operations such as displaying the medical information and images. In another implementation software may include specific applications for viewing images reports and other medical history or data.

In step the operation System Receives User Query with Patient ID is performed. The system may receive a query from a user for patient information associated with a patient ID. For example a medical facility A may request patient information for a patient that has been admitted to the hospital. This request is transmitted by the computing device A shown in . The request may be for a network address of the computing device B which may communicate with the HIS B that contains historical information for the patient.

In step the operation Users are Authenticated is performed. The system may include an Access Control Module that restricts access to patient information. For example the Access Control Module may only allow authorized persons access to the registry which contains information linking a patient ID to a source of patient information. The authorization may have default authorized persons such as doctors and medical personnel and specifically authorized persons such as insurance company employees. Additionally the user query may also contain proof that a user is authorized such as a digital representation of an authorization form. This proof is used to verify that a user is authorized.

In step the operation Information Linked to Patient ID Present in Registry is performed. The registry is accessed to determine whether information linked to the patient ID is present. If it is not step is performed. If it is step is performed. For example the patient ID transmitted with the request for patient information is compared to patient IDS stored within the registry. If a match is found step is performed. If no match is found step is performed.

In step the operation System Returns Negative Response to User is performed. A negative response is transmitted to the user requesting patient information there is no match for the patient ID in the registry. For example the system may not find a match in the registry for the patient ID transmitted with a request for patient information. The system may send a response indicating there is no information in the registry associated with the provided patient ID.

In step the operation What Type of Information Is Linked to the Patient ID is performed. The type of information linked to the patient ID is determined. The type may include a network address for a medical facility or a network address for a secondary registry. For example if a patient ID provided with the request matches the patient ID present in the registry it is determined what type of information associated is linked with the patient ID. If the registry is stored in a database the field name storing a particular network address is used to determine whether the address identifies a medical facility or secondary registry. If the network address is associated with a secondary registry optional step may be performed. If the network addresses associated with a medical facility step may be performed.

In optional step the operation System Forwards Requests to Secondary Registry is performed. If the information associated with the patient ID is a network address for secondary registry the system may forward the requests to the secondary registry identified by the network address. For example if the network address identifies the registry server the IO Management System may transmit the request to the registry server. The step may then be repeated to determine whether information linked to the patient ID is present in the Secondary Registry .

In step the operation Return Network Address of Medical Facility is performed. The network address associated with the patient identifier provided with the request for patient information may be transmitted to the requesting user. For example after determining that the patient ID matches a patient ID in either the registry or the secondary registry the system may transmit the network address identifying the medical facility B that contains the requested patient information. The user such as the medical facility A may then establish a direct connection with the medical facility B request and receive the patient information using a peer to peer connection.

Users may be charged a fee for the matchmaker service provided by the system . For example a user may be charged for every request for patient information. A user ID may also be presented with the request for patient information. The user ID is sent to a billing module implemented in the Operations Module . The billing module may calculate the cost of the request based on billing rules that is stored in the Data Module .

The user s credit card information may also be included in the request for information or a stored in the Data Module. After the request is received the user s credit card is billed. Alternatively an invoice is generated and sent to the user. In another implementation the user may pay a subscription fee for a certain number of requests made during a defined period of time such as 100 requests per week. In another implementation the user may only be charged if the request for patient information is successful and a network address for the medical facility B containing the patient information is returned to the requesting medical facility A.

The Medical Facilities and the IO Management System may include many of the same components as shown in the but the System may also include a translator which will be described in greater detail below.

In the implementation shown in the Medical Facility A may transmit a request for patient information to the IO Management System . The request may include a patient ID. The IO Management System may receive the request and the Access Control Module may determine whether the requester is authorized to view the patient information. If the requester is not authorized the request is refused. If the requester is authorized the IO Management System may access the registry within the Data Module . The patient ID included in request is used to determine if there is a matching patient ID with the registry. The functionality described above may be similar to the functionality described in association with .

If a matching patient ID is not located within the registry the IO Management System may return a negative response to the requesting medical facility A indicating that no information associated with the patient ID was found.

In another implementation the IO Management System may initiate queries to medical data storage systems at medical facilities for information associated with that patient ID if no network addresses are found. The queries are transmitted to the computing devices at each facility . If a facility is found that contains information associated with the patient ID the network address for the computing device is added to the registry and the system may retrieve the information.

The medical facilities queried may be facilities that are located within the same region as the requesting medical facility. For example the system may query medical facilities in the same city county or state. This query may have a higher probability of success than querying a medical facility in another region because a patient admitted to the requesting medical facility may be more likely to have been treated at a facility in the surrounding region than at a facility in a different city county or state. In another implementation all medical facilities with network addresses in the registry are queried for the patient information.

If a matching patient ID is located within the registry there may be network addresses identifying computing devices for medical facilities which may contain patient information associated with the patient identifier. For example the system may use the network address to establish a connection with the medical facility B. After a connection is established the system may request and receive the patient information associated with the patient ID.

Images received from the medical facility B may be transmitted to the Image Server before they are transmitted to the requesting medical facility A. The images may be in a different format than the native image format of the Image Server and may require remapping or reformatting before the Image Server may accept the images. This may be accomplished using modules that are responsible for translating different image server formats as described above. Alternatively a Translator implemented in the Production Module may be used to translate images from the received image format to the native format of the Image Server .

Reports received from the medical facility B may be transmitted to the Order Server before they are transmitted to the requesting medical facility A. The orders may be in a different format than the native report format of the Order Server . The translator may also be used to translate the reports from the received report format to the native report order format of the Order Server . Alternatively the Order Server may have modules responsible for translating the reports into the native format similar to the modules described for the Image Server .

In one implementation translation may occur in the following way. The device requirements of each system may be determined dynamically each time a transaction is performed. For example a command may be transmitted to the computing devices A to identify what types of HIS system order server and image server are operating at the medical facility A. Alternatively the system parameters may be stored in a database or the registry that is queried to determine what formats such as image format report format and medical file format are required.

For example to format a report the following steps may be performed. After the report is received by the IO Management System it may convert the report from a format compatible with the client device to a format compatible for the medical facility. There may be a pointer that associates the images with an order or report. Given this pointer the identity of the ordering facility and knowledge of the facility s data format requirements the finished report may be formatted into appropriate structure and delivered to the ordering facility.

Reformatting may require parsing the report storing the data in a structure that identifies each piece of information creating a new report using the stored data and remapping rules specific to the report format required by the medical facility. For instance the remapping rules may be stored in the translator or in the Data Module . They may specify where in the new report structure information from the old report structure must be placed. For instance if the last name of the patient is in a first field of the old report it may be remapped to a third field of the new report based on the remapping rules used by the translator . Similar remapping rules may be used to reformat images and other medical information.

The knowledge of the facilities data format requirements may be recorded in a database implemented at system . The requirements may be entered when the facility registers with the system or they may be automatically determined by the system and entered into the database.

If conversion is necessary the report may be validated by comparing the order information with the converted report information to ensure the information has been mapped correctly during the report conversion process. For example the patient name fields may be compared. The order corresponding to the report may be accessed using the unique identifier discussed earlier.

In another implementation received patient medical information may be stored in the Data Module before it is transmitted to the requesting medical facility A. This patient medical data may include a variety of information such as medical charts patient demographic information prescription drug records hospitals to which the patient has been at admitted information on medical procedures performed on the patient medical personnel notations and the received reports and images.

The Data Module may serve as a cache that stores the patient information for future queries. For example a query is received from a medical facility for medical information for Patient A. The IO Management System may retrieve the information as described above store it in the Data Module and relay it to the requesting medical facility using a caching module. If the same or a different medical facility requests the information the IO Management System may retrieve the medical information from the Data Module instead of from an external medical facility. This may decrease the time needed for the requesting medical facility to receive the data.

In one implementation the caching module may create and store persistence values with the patient s medical information. The persistence values may indicate how long the data has been cached in the Data Module . When the persistence values indicate the medical data has not been accessed for a predetermined period of time the caching module may delete or overwrite medical information associated with the persistence values.

The persistence values may be based on several measures. For example the IO Management System may store patient information based on time e.g. the system stores all the requested patient information for two months the requesting facility e.g. the system stores all the requests from a particular medical facility or client device user and the frequency of requests e.g. the system stores all patient information that is requested more than once .

The registry may indicate whether information is stored locally in the Data Module or remotely at the medical facility . For example the registry may include a pointer to the information in the Data Module. The caching module may update the registry with the pointer when patient information is stored in the Data Module . When a request is made for patient information the IO Management System may access the pointer in the registry to determine if the data is stored locally. If the pointer is present the IO Management System may use the pointer to locate and access the patient information in the Data Module. If the pointer is not present the IO Management System may retrieve the data from the medical facility using a network address for that medical facility stored in the registry. Alternatively the pointer may always be present. When the patient information is cached the pointer specifies a location in the Data Module and when the information is not cached the pointer specifies a location at the remote facility .

In another implementation the medical data requested by the medical facility is not transmitted to the facility. Instead personnel at the requesting medical facility may view the requested data using the ASP module described in more detail below. The information may remain on the IO Management System and is not transmitted to or stored at the requesting medical facility.

The translator may determine what format the requesting medical facility A requires to receive the patient information. For instance the facility A may require the information in a format compatible with the HL7 or IHE standard. Also the facility may require the images in a specific format such as raw DICOM Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine format RadWorks format and E Med format. The translator may translate the patient information including the images to the proper format before transmitting the data to the facility A.

The patient information may be transmitted to different servers or computing devices at the facility A. For example the images may be transmitted to the Facility Image Server the reports to the Facility Order Server and the additional patient information to the computing device A. In another implementation all the patient information may be transmitted to the computing device A for transmission to the HIS .

The proper transmission format required for the medical facility A may be stored in the Registry of the Data Module . The translator may access the Registry to determine what translation algorithm to use for the requesting medical facility A. After translation the system may transmit the data. Alternatively the system may determine the translation requirements of the requesting medical facility on the fly. For example the registry may not contain the translation requirements for the requesting medical facility A so the system may query the facility A to determine what format or formats the system requires for the patient information.

After determining the requirements the Translator may translate the patient information and transmit it in the required format. Additionally the translation requirements may then be entered in the registry and associated with the medical facility A for future reference. In another implementation similar transmission requirements may be entered in the registry for the sending medical facility B. The requirements may be used for any necessary translation if the sending medical facility later requests patient information.

A user such as a patient a remote doctor and an insurance employee may also request patient information. Similar steps and structure to those described for the requesting medical may be employed by these users. However these users may not have some of the elements described in such as the Facility Image and Order Servers or a HIS . The users may simply have a computing device A which has a browser or other software configured to receive the patient information for display or storage.

There may be more than one network address associated with the patient ID. The IO Management System may request information from each of the facilities B associated with the network address and transmit it to the requesting medical facility A or the user. The patient information may be passed as it is received by each of the medical facilities B or it may be accumulated and passed in one transmission.

In another implementation the system shown in may also have a secondary registry as shown in and described above.

A user requesting the patient information may be billed in a manner similar to that described above for . However instead of being billed for providing a network address of another medical facility that contains the patient information the charge may be for directly providing the patient information to the requesting facility. Additional fees may be charged for any translation operations performed by the translator .

The steps and are similar to steps and in . However if the results of the operation Information Linked to Patient ID Present in Registry performed in step are NO the step or the optional step may be performed.

In optional step the operation System Queries Medical Facilities for Patient Information is performed. If no information is linked to the patient ID the system may query the medical facilities to determine if the facilities have patient information linked to the patient ID. For example the IO Management System may query medical facilities B within the same city as the requesting medical facility A. The system may transmit the patient ID with the query to the facilities B to determine if the patient ID matches any patient IDs within the facilities systems. If there is no matching patient ID for any of the systems queried step may be performed. If one of the medical facilities B does have a matching patient ID step may be performed.

In step the operation System Establishes a Direct Connection with the Medical Facility and Requests Patient Information is performed. If the queried medical facility has information related to the patient ID the system may establish a direct connection with the medical facility and may request the patient information. For example the medical facility B may return a response that indicates it has patient information associated with the patient ID. The system may establish a connection with the medical facility B request and receive the patient information. If more than one medical facility returns a positive response the patient information may be received from each of the medical facilities. Additionally if more than one network address is linked to the patient ID as described in steps and connections with each of the medical facilities specified by the network addresses may be initiated to obtain the patient information from each facility.

In optional step the operation System Translates Patient Information is performed. The system may translate patient information received from the sending medical facility. For example the translator may determine what format the requesting medical facility requires to process the patient medical information. The translator may then translate the received patient information into the required format.

In step the operation System Transmits Patient Information to the User is performed. The system transmits the received patient information to the requesting user. For example the system may transmit patient information to the requesting medical facility A.

The medical facility ID may include an identifier for the medical facility. This facility ID may be provided to the requesting medical facility A when the network address is provided in the matchmaker method shown in or when the patient information is transmitted in the middleman method shown in . The facility ID may be used by the requesting medical facility to record the source of the patient s information or to facilitate contacting the medical facility if clarification or additional patient information is required. In one implementation the medical facility ID may be a unique number identifying the facility such as 123456789 a name such as James River Hospital or a combination thereof JamesRiver123456789 .

In one implementation the network address may identify systems other than medical facilities. For example the network address may identify universities and remote doctor systems which may store patient information. Likewise the medical facility ID may identify these other systems instead of medical facilities.

The medical facility system requirements may describe the format that is required by the medical facility identified by the network address. For example one network address may identify a facility image server which only accepts raw DICOM data. The system requirements may be used by the translator to determine the appropriate format for the patient information before transmitting the information to the requesting medical facility A.

The modification dates may identify the dates that new information associated with the patient ID was generated. For example if the medical facility with the medical facility ID 123456789 admitted the patient on Oct. 10 2004 and later on Nov. 2 2005 both these dates may be entered in the registry. The dates may be used to determine whether a requesting medical facility has already received patient information from a medical facility for that patient. For example a requesting medical facility A may request patient information for patient 987654321 and may receive it on Nov. 11 2004. Later on Dec. 2 2005 the facility A may request information for the patient again. The modification dates may be used to prevent information associated with the date Oct. 10 2004 from being transmitted again along with the information that was generated on Nov. 2 2005. The modification dates may be transmitted to the registry as described in greater detail below.

The secondary registry network address may identify the address of the registry server that contains the secondary registry . This may be used in the manner described in association with .

In other implementations the registry may also contain information such as a summary of the patient information e.g. X ray Images of the Head Current Prescriptions and Family Medical History medical facility admission and check out dates for patients and authorization information e.g. BlueCross BlueShield employees are authorized to view patient information .

In optional step the operation Alert Received to Update Information in Registry is performed. The system may receive an alert from a medical facility that new patient information has been generated and that the information is available for updating the registry. For example a patient may be admitted to a hospital. The patient may already have a unique patient identifier or a unique identifier may be generated for him or her at the hospital. Hospital personnel may enter information about the patient s pending and past medical procedures into the hospital s HIS. The computing device A networked with the HIS may send an alert to the system that new information associated with the patient s ID has been created.

In another implementation upon entry of patient information associated with a patient ID an alert may be sent to the IO Management System to obtain or be ready to obtain patient information from other medical facilities. This may occur for example when the patient associated with the patient ID 12345679 is admitted to a hospital. The computing device A may send out an automatic query to the system to cache information associated with the patient ID. The cached information may be stored in the system s Data Module . If a doctor later requests additional patient information from the IO Management System the information may be transmitted to the computing device A and made available to the requesting doctor. Alternatively the system may receive the alert and locate medical facilities that contain information associated with a patient ID but the system may not initiate a download of the information until the information is requested by a doctor or other medical personnel.

In some implementations the medical facility may receive a notification that additional patient information is available for download. The notification may be inserted in the patient s medical information stored at the medical facility. It may also be stored separately. Regardless of its location users of the HIS or computing device A may receive the notification when accessing the patient information. In another implementation the notification may be received independent of whether the associated patient information is viewed. For example it may be displayed in an email or a worklist assigned to a doctor or medical personnel.

In other implementations the alert may initiate an automatic download of patient information. For example the patient with the patient ID 123456789 may be admitted to a hospital. When the patient ID is entered into the hospital s system it may automatically be sent with a request to the IO Management System to download additional information associated with patient ID. This may happen without any user intervention.

In optional step the operation System Requests Information from the Medical Facility is performed. The IO Management System may request from the medical facility the information associated with the patient ID. For example the system may request information such as the medical facility s network address the medical facility s ID the system requirements and the modification dates .

In one implementation steps and may be combined where the information associated with the patient ID is sent with the alert or serves the function of the alert namely to inform the system that new information is available. In another implementation only step may be performed. For example instead of a computing device at a medical facility initiating the data transfer the system may periodically query the medical facility to determine if any new patient information has been generated. The system may use an application similar to a web crawler or web spider that communicates with the medical facilities systems in a methodical automated manner to determine whether new patient information is present. On finding new information the system may request the information to update the registry.

In step the operation System Receives Information is performed. The system may receive the information associated with the patient ID. For example the system may receive patient information such as information shown in .

In optional step the operation System Verifies that Information is Reliable is performed. The Access Control Module may determine whether the medical facility sending the patient information is an authorized sender. For example the Access Control Module may compare the sending medical facility s network address and medical facility ID with the medical facility network address and the medical facility ID stored in the registry. The patient modification date may also be compared with previous modification dates to determine if the information is already recorded in the registry. If the information has been previously stored the newly received information may be compared with the previously stored information to determine if the information is identical which may indicate the transmissions were reliable.

In step the operation System Enters the Information into the Registry is performed. The IO Management System may enter the received information into the registry. For example the system may enter the received information associated with patient ID into the registry . The method may be repeated for separate medical facilities . The method may also be repeated for each facility every time new patient information is generated and it may be repeated for a single medical facility after a predetermined time period or the occurrence of an event such as the alert in step .

The Image Server may include stored images which may be placed in directories or logical file folders associated with particular doctors. The placement of the images in certain folders may be determined by a filter which may use filtering criteria such as Doctor IDs that may identify which images should be placed in which doctor s folders. The image server may also include a report flag which indicates that a doctor has analyzed an image and submitted a report to the Order Server not shown based on that image.

When an image is received from a medical facility by the IO Management System it may be passed to the workflow module which can determine which doctor may receive the image for study. The radiologist may be chosen from an available pool. Several criteria may be applied to determine radiologist s availability. For example an examination of the radiologist s status with the facility may include determining whether a contract exists between the radiologist and the medical facility to provide services whether the radiologist is licensed in the facility s state whether the doctor is credentialed at the facility the doctor s registered sub specialties and facility preferences with respect to specific radiologists. All of this data may be stored and accessed in the database .

The workflow module may apply filtering to the order if multiple radiologists meet the first round selection criteria. Additional criteria used for filtering may include radiologist contractual information such as compensation variations for orders. For example Dr. A may receive a standard fee for an order sent Tuesday at 8 pm because Dr. A is contractually obligated to be on call and accept studies at this time. Dr. B however is not on call at this time and is contractually entitled to receive the standard fee plus additional compensation for completing an order at this time. In this example the study may be sent to Dr. A to minimize costs. Other contractual information that may affect the compensation may include the type of study such as MRI X ray or CAT the body part depicted and the number of orders already completed by a radiologist. This information may be retrieved from the database in the system for use in filtering. In another implementation additional criteria for filtering may include the bidding price of a radiologist for completing an order or the compensation bid offered by a medical facility.

After the selected doctor or doctors have been determined by the workflow module a list of Doctor IDs corresponding to the selected doctors may be provided to the Image Server. The Doctor IDs may be used by the filter to determine which doctors should receive the images. For example in one specific embodiment a set of folders or file locations are each associated with a specific doctor to receive and hold the images. When the images are placed in the folders they may then be transmitted to the doctors who are subscribed to those folders. For example Dr. Cliff Huxtable may be subscribed to a folder associated with the Doctor ID CH. When an image is placed in the CH folder it may be transmitted to the client device that Dr. Huxtable uses. The images are the same images that were used by the workflow module to determine the doctors available for analyzing the images.

In an alternate embodiment instead of using folders the Production Module maintains a list of which studies are assigned to which radiologists that is a list of which radiologists have been approved to read each pending study. A caching module may then transmit the images to client devices such as client device based on the assignments managed by the Production Module . As is apparent a folder list or any other number of similar mechanisms may be used to maintain a list of valid reading radiologists for a given study and transmit the images and study data to the correct doctor location.

The doctor may be alerted of the image arrival or the doctor may view it when an order associated with the images is selected. For instance an order may appear on a radiologist s worklist which may be displayed on the client device . The doctor may select the order and an image viewer that displays the image may open. In either case the system may monitor the status of the order associated with the image and provide feedback to the ordering medical facility regarding the status of the order. If the order is not acted upon in a timely manner by the radiologist additional radiologists may be assigned and provided the images and order information.

After the radiologist analyzes the images the radiologist may submit a report to the system . The report may enter the system through various means including direct typing an audio file such as a .wav file voice recognition dictation email text or through use of a transcriptionist. Regardless of the source and format of the report from the radiologist it may be converted or reformatted into a default format into the system while maintaining the electronic signature of the radiologist.

When the report is received by the system the report flag may be sent to the Image Server . The report flag may be transmitted with the report from the client device or may be generated by the IO Management System and transmitted to the Image Server when the report is received. The report flag may be associated with the images to which it relates using DICOM information embedded in the image and information in the transmitted report such as the facility that sent the image and the patient name or patient ID. The IO Management System may associate the report flag with the images. The report flag may associated with the images in a way that indicates the images have been analyzed by a doctor. For example the report flag may be stored with the images in the folder. This may prevent the images from being sent to another doctor or the same doctor for analysis.

In another implementation the flag may indicate that the images are old images related to a previous report. The images may be sent along with new images to a radiologist however the old images may be identified as older images using the report flag. The flag may be used to cause the image server to transmit the old images in way that indicates they are old. For example the old images may be transmitted with information that indicates they have been read and provides the report corresponding to the images or a link to the report. The image viewer on the client device may separate the old and new images so that the new images to be read are displayed with the order. If the doctor desires to see previous medical data he or she may click on a link for the older images or the older report.

The report flag may also be used to indicate that a transaction has been completed so that the billing module and the compensation module may calculate billing and compensation respectively for the transaction. The report flag may be received at the Image Server and transmitted to the Operations Module . The report flag may contain information about the transaction such as the time the report was completed the doctor that completed it the facility that requested it the type of image read the number of images and the time the image was submitted to the doctor. Some or all of this information may be present in the report flag when it is transmitted from the client device or it may be added at the Image Server . The billing rules and the compensation rules may be applied to the information extracted from the report flag to calculate the billing and compensation.

The billing module may use billing rules when calculating bills for the medical facilities . The billing rules may be stored in a database or within the billing module . If the rules are stored within the database the billing module may retrieve the billing rules from the database as indicated by arrow . The billing module may use the billing rules together with the report flags for a particular medical facility A in order to process the billing for that medical facility A. In one implementation the report flags may be stored in the Image Server . The billing module may retrieve the report flags as represented by arrows and .

For example the bill for the medical facility A may depend on several rules applied to report flag extracted data. The data may include the order type which may be an identifier signifying whether the order associated with the report was a preliminary study or a final study the doctor identifier for the doctor completing the study the time of day the order and the report were transmitted and received the number of images associated with the report the medical facility sending the images and the region of the patient s body depicted in the image.

The rules may calculate different fees or charges based on this data. For example one doctor identifier may be associated with a higher fee rule because the doctor may bill more for a read than other doctors. Additionally the rules may include different fees based on whether an order was processed during the day or the night or whether it was processed during a weekday or the weekend. Additionally rules may be implemented where fees are modified based on the number of images associated with the report. For example a base fee may be associated for the first 50 images afterwards an excess image fee may be charged for each additional image. Some rules may change the image reading fee based on the medical facility sending the images. For instance one medical facility may receive a lower fee for each order requested if it contracts to send at least 50 orders every day. Some fees may align with CPT Current Procedure Terminology codes or with other study procedure definitions. Fees may be aligned with requirements issued by state or federal government programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. Rules may also determine from the order type whether to charge a fee for a preliminary read or a final read. Additionally different rules may be created to generate a range of fees based on what type of body region is depicted in the image. For example an order for a head scan may be charged a different fee than an order for a pelvic abdomen scan.

There may also be flat fees or surcharges added to a bill that may be unrelated to the fulfilled order such as a network maintenance fee for particular hospitals on call fees or other one time fees for special events. In another implementation the report flags may be stored in the Data Module and retrieved with the billing rules to calculate the appropriate amount to bill the medical facility A.

In connection with use of the radiology processing system some medical facilities may work with an associated group of radiologists. The associated group may be referred to as a practice or in other cases as a hospital or corporate organization of multiple hospitals. The billing module may store billing rules for a practice individual radiologists or combination thereof Medical facilities may be associated with practices in data structures located in the database . The association may be a hierarchal association where one or more medical facilities are linked to each practice. The medical facilities may be considered delivery entities because they may deliver services to patients based upon the reports returned by radiologists.

The practices may be considered billing entities. The billing module may generate bills or invoices on behalf of the practices. Invoices may be sent to the practices which may bill the medical facilities . Alternatively the invoices may be sent to the medical facilities directly on behalf of another entity such as the practices the individual radiologists or an entity that manages or controls the IO Management System .

Billing may occur on a periodic basis such as daily or monthly or billing may occur on an event basis such as when a report flag is received by the IO Management System . Additionally there may be a minimum number of orders or images charged per period regardless of whether a report flag is received. For example if nine orders are requested and nine reports are received for the medical facility A in one daily period and the faculty has a minimum of ten orders in a daily period the billing module may charge the medical facility A for ten orders.

The billing module may electronically debit the medical facilities such as by an electronic fund transfer from a bank account or an electronic debit to a credit card. Additionally the billing module may output an invoice report that can be mailed faxed or electronically mailed to the medical facilities . In another example the billing module may output the billing information to an accounting services application that may create invoices for the medical facilities .

The compensation module may use the report flag compensation data and compensation rules when calculating the radiologists compensation. The compensation data may be similar to the billing data described above. The compensation rules may be stored in the database or within the compensation module . If the rules are stored within the database the compensation module may retrieve the rules from the database as indicated by arrow . The compensation module may use the compensation rules together with the compensation data and the data extracted from the report flag to calculate the compensation for the radiologist associated with a report as indicated by the report flag.

For example the data extracted from the report flag may indicate whether a report was a preliminary or final study what time the order was requested or processed whether the report was submitted during a weekday or the weekend whether the doctor was a subspecialist whether the report as a result of a request for a second opinion or a consultation and a doctor identifier for determining the appropriate compensation for that doctor. Additionally compensation may be based on the number of images associated with the report the type of image or the part of the patient s body depicted in the image.

The compensation module may implement compensation rules that use compensation data such as a base rate per report to compensate radiologists on a per report basis. There may be a base study count or quota of reports corresponding to a base salary for the radiologists such that the compensation module utilizes the compensation rules to calculate an additional compensation on a per report basis when the radiologist exceeds the quota.

Compensation may take multiple forms for example stock options in the entity managing the IO Management System vacation days or preferred scheduling requests may be compensation.

The compensation data may be recorded in a predetermined layout on a medium. For example the compensation data may be recorded on a paper form. The form may be a contract with the compensation data recorded in predetermined parts such as the base salary is listed in the first paragraph of the contract approximately three inches from the left side of the document and four inches from the top of the document. A user may enter the compensation data into a database such as the database by employing a GUI graphical user interface that has approximately the same layout as the digital or paper form. For example the GUI may have a text entry box for base salary that is approximately three inches from the left side of the GUI and four inches from the top of the GUI. Alternatively the form may be digitally represented on the GUI. For example it may include all the text of the contract with a text entry box located in approximately the same position in the first paragraph as the base salary in the paper contract. The user may quickly locate and enter all the necessary information using the similar representations of the GUI and the paper form.

In one implementation the radiologists may bid on the compensation for the order where the radiologist with the lowest bid may process the order. The medical facility may post the number of orders it needs fulfilled and the radiologists may offer bids to fulfill the orders. For example the workflow module would attempt to assign orders to as many radiologists as possible while still honoring licensing and credentialing limitations and facility preferences. There may also be limits such as a limit on the number of orders currently accepted by a single radiologist. The limit may be based on the radiologist s productivity and the desired turnaround time for order completion. The radiologists may view and bid on orders assigned and not yet accepted by them at their client devices . The radiologist with the lowest bid may accept the order.

In another implementation the medical facilities may provide compensation bids for a radiologist s services. Many facilities may bid to obtain the services offered by a radiologist. For example a radiologist may submit an offer to provide 50 reports for requested orders over given time. Medical facilities may submit compensation bids to have 50 of their orders completed by the radiologist. The medical facility with the highest compensation bid may be selected and the radiologists may then receive 50 orders from that facility.

For monetary compensation the compensation module may electronically credit the radiologists such as by an electronic fund transfer to a bank account. In another implementation the compensation module may output a check and a report that can be mailed faxed or electronically transmitted to the radiologists. In another example the compensation module may output the compensation information to an accounting services application that performs the electronic fund transfer or creates a report that can be sent to the radiologists. The compensation module may also have a user interface such as a portal application where a radiologist can view reports of orders assigned to the radiologist and the compensation for those orders. The Access Control Module may restrict access to the user interface for radiologist compensation assigned orders and submitted reports.

In step the operation Images Transmitted to Doctor is performed. The IO Management System transmits the images to the client device. For example the IO Management System may transmit the images for analysis to the client device operated by a remote radiologist. The radiologists may be selected from a pool of available radiologists based on criteria such as licensing credentialing schedule information facility preferences and the like.

In step the operation Receive Report from Doctor is performed. The report may be received at the IO Management System from the client device. For example the doctor may generate a report based on the images received and transmit the report from the client device to the system . In one implementation a report flag may be transmitted with a report from the client device .

In step the operation Report Flag Transmitted to Image Server is performed. The report flag may be transmitted to the image server by the IO Management System . For example the system may generate a report flag when a report is received and forward the flag to the image server . In another implementation the flag may be received with the report and transmitted to the image server by the system .

In step the operation Image Server Transmits Transaction Data Including Report Flag to Operations Module is performed. For example the Image Server may transmit the report flag to the Operations Module .

Steps and may occur independent of each other after step . In step the operation Billing Module Calculates Fee Based on Billing Rules is performed. The billing module may apply the billing rules to information extracted from the report flag and generate a calculated fee. For example data extracted from the report flag may indicate that James River Hospital in Virginia submitted images associated with the report. The billing rules may be used by the billing module to calculate the appropriate fees for images and generate a fee total for James River Hospital. After the fee is calculated either steps or may be optionally performed.

In optional step the operation Billing Module Creates Invoice is performed. For example the fee generated by the billing module may be used to generate an invoice that is mailed to James River Hospital.

In optional step the operation Billing Module Bills Credit Card is performed. For example the billing module may debit the credit card account of James River Hospital. The credit card information may have been stored in the Data Module .

In step the operation Compensation Module Calculates Compensation Based on Compensation Rules is performed. The compensation module may apply the compensation rules to information extracted from the report flag and generate a compensation amount for a doctor. For example the data extracted from the report flag may indicate that Dr. Huxtable generated the report and that the report exceeded the doctor s quota of reports. The compensation rules may be used by the compensation module to calculate Dr. Huxtable s compensation including any bonuses for completing extra reports over his required limit.

In step the operation Compensation Module Credits Bank Account is performed. The compensation module may electronically credit the bank account of a doctor that completes a report. For example the compensation module may access Dr. Huxtable s bank account information which may be stored in the Data Module and make an electronic deposit in the account for the calculated compensation using that information.

The radiologist does not need the full image and order applications installed on the client device to access the images and orders but instead may use the applications included in the ASP module. The ASP functionality may enable users of clients to fulfill orders without locally installed order report and image software. In one implementation the ASP module may be used to enable independent radiologists to fulfill orders without a full install of software compatible with the order and image servers .

For example after an image and order has been transmitted from a hospital to the IO Management System a user of the client device may be alerted that the order is available. This alert may be a request for bids from radiologists to complete the order or an assignment of the order to a particular radiologist. The alert may be sent out by electronic means such as email an order which shows up on the radiologist s worklist or a request posted on a web server. The computing device transmitting or posting the alerts may be part of the IO Management System or may be operated by an independent party such as the hospital requesting the order or a representative for the hospital. The radiologist that is selected to complete the order may or may not have the software necessary to access the order and images or return the report. If the radiologist does not he or she may employ the ASP module to complete the order. In one implementation the radiologist may access the module using a browser and download plug ins that permit the browser to utilize the ASP applications.

Using the ASP module in combination with the image server and order server in the system may permit the remote users to view the images and orders without downloading the all the data associated with the images and orders. For example a doctor may view a scan with multiple images without having to download all of the data associated with each of the images. The doctor may view a screenshot of the image as manipulated by the image viewer used by the ASP. The data needed to manipulate the images does not need to be stored on the doctor s computer instead it may be stored in the system manipulated by the ASP applications and the displayed manipulations may be transmitted to the remote user. The displayed manipulations may require less bandwidth to transmit than transmitting the full image data required to perform the manipulations if the remote user had the appropriate image viewing software.

Additionally the remote user may not need every image or every part of the image data for analysis. The doctor may not review the unneeded images or image data. Unneeded image data and even the screenshot of the unneeded images may not be transmitted to the remote doctor.

Not transmitting the full image may mitigate the need to compress as well as decompress and translate image data before transmitting it to or from a remote user. This may also be true for other medical data such as reports and orders. Also the image server may not have to push full images to client devices. Instead client devices may log into the ASP module to access the images without the need to receive the images which may require large amounts of bandwidth to transmit.

In another implementation the ASP module may have its own translator not shown or may utilize the translator to translate the images orders or other medical information into a format compatible with software installed on the doctor s client device . In this implementation the doctor may have a full image and order viewer on his or her system but may require access to the images orders or other medical information in a format incompatible with the software installed on the client device . For example the doctor may use an image viewer that only accepts image data in RadWorks format while the images stored at the image server are in raw DICOM format. The translator may convert the images from DICOM format to RadWorks format before transmission to the client device .

The images reports and medical data may be stored or pre loaded on the client device for future reference or to decrease the time required by a doctor to manipulate or view the images or data. Translating transmitting and storing the data on the client device may allow the client device s software to access the information in less time than accessing the same information resident on the IO Management System because the size of the information may necessitate a significant transmission time from the IO Management System to the client device .

The client device may request that the IO Management System transmit the images reports and medical data to the client device for storage using a local caching module not shown implemented at the device . The local caching module may transmit the request to have the information stored locally if the information meets a size threshold. For example an image may be 20 MB in size and the size threshold is 8 MB. The local caching module transmits the requests to have the images stored at the client device because remote viewing of the images causes undesirable delays in manipulating the images.

Alternatively the local caching module may transmit the request if the client device has adequate storage to contain the images reports and medical data. For instance the client device issues two queries the first is a query to a local hard drive to determine the amount of space available and the second is a query to the IO Management System requesting the size of the information to be sent. Comparing the results from the two queries the caching module may determine if the local hard drive has enough capacity to store the information. If enough capacity is available the local caching module may transmit the request to have the information stored locally.

In another implementation the local caching module may transmit the request if the connection established between the client device and the IO Management System meets a threshold bandwidth. For example if the client device determines that the connection averages 150 kbps the client device may transmit a request that the information be stored locally. In some implementations the functions performed by the local caching module at the client device may be integrated into the caching module at the IO Management System . In these implementations the caching module would transmit queries to the client device to determine information such as hard drive space bandwidth threshold and size threshold.

The reports and other medical data may be generated at the client device and transmitted to the ASP module. The ASP module may translate the received data into a default format and store the data in the IO Management System. The ASP module may also translate the received medical information into a format compatible with another client device or medical facility and then may transmit it to the corresponding device or facility. For instance a radiologist may log into the ASP module and receive images and an order issued by Hospital A. The doctor may create a report based on the images and order and transmit this to the ASP module. The module may translate this report to a default format and then translate it to a format compatible with the report software used at Hospital A. The module may transmit the report to Hospital A.

Additionally the ASP module may translate the report received from the radiologist directly into a format compatible with Hospital A instead of first translating it into a default format.

In another example a patient may log into or otherwise interface with the ASP module and receive his or her patient medical information including images reports and demographic information. The patient may also edit demographic information such as his or her home address. The patient may then transmit the edited information back to the ASP module. The patient s medical information may be stored in a default format on the IO Management System or may be transmitted to one or medical facilities for storage.

Users logged into the ASP module may be limited from viewing modifying or deleting medical data. For example the patient viewing his or her medical records may edit the demographic information but may not edit the reports or images. In this example the Access Control Module informs the ASP module as to which permissions a user is entitled using permission sets stored in the access control module.

The permission sets may indicate individual user IDs and restrictions or authorizations associated with those IDs. For example a user ID may have doctor flag set to 1 which indicates the user is a doctor. Directories or files in the IO Management System may have an associated flag that indicates whether a doctor is permitted to modify the directory or file. The IO Management System may access the permission sets associated with the user ID before allowing the corresponding user to access files stored on the system .

In another implementation the reports and medical data are stored in a neutral or default format on the IO Management System . The information is translated to a format compatible with software installed on the client device such as a browser. In one implementation the translator may remap or reformat the reports and medical data in various formats such as HTML XML Java or JavaScript so that it may be displayed with an Internet browser. For example the translator may contain a set of translation rules such as a RIS to HTML rule. The translator may use the RIS to HTML rule to take fields in a RIS order and generate an HTML document. The translator may map the name John Smith in a patient name RIS field into an HTML document under a tag containing text Patient Name. 

The HTML document may be a template stored at the IO Management System. In this implementation the field names in the RIS order may be matched to existing heading names in the HTML template. The data stored in the RIS data field is inserted under the corresponding heading name. Alternatively the HTML document is dynamically generated based on the contents of the RIS order. For example the translator may generate an HTML heading tag for every field in the RIS order and include the information associated with each field in the header. The order of the RIS fields may used to determine the text of the heading tag. For instance the first field may be the patient s name so the translator generates a HTML heading Patient Name for the first field.

When the doctors log into the ASP module separate profiles may be available for different types of doctors. The profiles may control the type of image and order applications the ASP module presents the doctor or may influence the way the images and orders are displayed within an application. For example a cardiologist that logs into the ASP module may be presented with images in 3 D to facilitate viewing blood flow around the heart in a cinematic fashion. This view may be desirable for cardiologists to accurately diagnose defects in the heart s function. In contrast a radiologist may be presented with image data in a raw cross sectional axial view progressing to a multiplanar reconstruction with the potential to move to 3 D and screen out certain image elements such as bones muscle and tissue. These views may require the ASP module to initiate different applications or initiate one application with specific options enabled for each type of specialist.

When the doctor submits a report using the ASP the report flag may be transmitted as discussed above. The billing module may use information extracted from the report flag to bill the doctor for access to the ASP module . The billing factors may include how much compensation the doctor is entitled to for completing the study. For example the billing module may bill the doctor for an amount equivalent to 10 of the compensation he receives for analyzing the images. Alternatively the doctor may be billed on the amount of information transferred to him or her during the ASP session the length of the ASP session or for every report completed by the doctor. The report flag may also be used to compensate the doctor and bill the medical facility as discussed above.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the described implementations. For example in steps and may be optional and they may also be performed in the method of . Additionally the transfer of medical data in may occur among clients and medical facilities as well as between two medical facilities.

Within the IO management system an image server and an order server receive images and orders respectively from the medical facility . The image server and the order server send the images and the orders to the doctor systems A C for review by the doctors. An access control module provides secure access to the IO management system from the medical facility and the doctor systems A C.

As shown in the medical facility may send a medical request e.g. a request for a radiologist review of electronic medical images comprising DICOM images to the IO management system . The image server receives the DICOM images . The image server may be part of a PACS which digitally stores transmits and displays medical images. The image server may store the image files as images . A DICOM processor extracts DICOM data from the images and stores the DICOM data associated with the images in a database . The images are assigned an identifier that is stored in the database and is used to access the images when needed for transmission or other purposes. When received a compressor not shown may compress the images using a variety of compression algorithms to compress the images such as JPEG JPEGLS JPEG2000 PNG GIF XBM BMP and TIFF.

The compressor may be implemented on the same computing device as the image server . In one implementation the image compressor may be accessible by the software that executes the functions of the image server . For example the image compressor may be a dynamic load library DLL code segment stored on the same computing device and accessed by the image server . Alternatively the compressor may be implemented on a separate computing device from the image server . For example the compressor may be accessible to software that executes the functionality of an Internet server which is resident on a separate machine from the image server . The Internet server may access the compressor whenever it receives images from the image server for transmission to the network.

Additionally the database and the images may be stored at the image server . For example the images and database may be stored on same machine that executes the image server software. This may simplify the operation and maintenance of the software. Alternatively the images and database may be stored on a different machine from the image server. For example the database may be installed on its own machine that has increased security protections and is isolated from the network in order to protect the medical data stored in the database. Similarly the images may be installed on a separate machine that provides more storage capacity and specialized hardware that facilitates quick and efficient retrieval and storage of the images. After the workflow module assigns the orders and corresponding images to the selected doctors the image server may transmit the compressed images over the network to the doctor systems A C.

In one embodiment configured to process DICOM formatted images a comparator module receives extracted DICOM data and database data from the image server . The image server extracts the original DICOM data from the images again and transmits it to the comparator module for comparison with the database data . The comparison may be used to determine if the DICOM processor stored the extracted data correctly and under the correct patient name. For example if the medical facility ID provided by the medical facility is not unique within the database the workflow module may be unable to provide the correct ID to the data module to filter the medical request. In addition if a patient name included in the database data and associated with the medical request does not match a patient name specified in the DICOM data then the request may be incorrectly associated with the patient. If the request is incorrectly associated then the comparator module sends an unidentified order to the order server for correction. Otherwise the comparator module provides the medical facility ID derived from the DICOM data included in the medical request to a caching module .

The caching module caches information related to the medical request. The caching module transmits the medical facility ID to the workflow module . The workflow module transmits the medical facility ID to the data module which may use the facility ID to access doctor information for doctors credentialed at a medical facility specified by the facility ID. The data module then returns the doctor information to the workflow module . Additionally the data module may return medical facility information such as how many requests per day the facility is contracted to request. The workflow module then performs filtering algorithms to determine a doctor to receive the request and returns an associated doctor ID to the caching module.

The caching module sends the identified doctor ID to the image server . The image server may place the images included in the medical request in file folders or directories associated with the identified doctor ID or the images may be transmitted directly to a remote location or server such as the doctor system . The caching module generates a pre populated order using the extracted DICOM data and sends the pre populated order to the order server . In one specific embodiment the pre populated order serves as a formal order to read radiology images and is pre populated with patient and hospital information such as the hospital and patient name.

The order server sends the pre populated order to the medical facility . The medical facility validates the information contained in the pre populated order and sends the validated order to the order server . For example staff at the medical facility may check the pre populated information for correctness and specify or validate a number of images included in the request a reason for the request and a medical history of the patient. After receipt of the validated order the order server sends the validated order to the caching module .

Unidentified orders may also be corrected and then transmitted to the caching module . For example personnel at the medical facility may contact an operator with access to the order server. The medical facility personnel may provide the correct patient identification and other necessary information to correct the unidentified order . The operator may then correct the order allowing the corrected order to be transmitted to the caching module as an identified order .

In another implementation unidentified orders are corrected by transmitting a pre populated order to a best guess or most likely medical facility for confirmation. For example the DICOM information associated with the unidentified order may be used to generate a pre populated order that includes the patient s name and other extracted information. If the originating facility is uncertain the order server may use probabilistic or statistical methods to determine the medical facility with the highest likelihood of being the originating facility. The order server may then transmit the pre populated form with the patient information for confirmation. If the order server determines that more than one medical facility matches information from the DICOM header the order server may send a pre populated form to all the matching medical facilities. The confirmed order is ultimately then transmitted to the caching module .

As images included in a medical request are received the caching module queries the image server to determine if the correct number of images have been received as indicated by arrow . If there are either too few or too many images received then the caching module refers the medical request to an operations unit where the image count is corrected as indicated by arrow . In one implementation the image count is manually corrected by an operator that may contact personnel at the medical facility to inquire about the image count. When the image count is correct the caching module sends to the order server an auto arrived alert and the order associated with the received medical images is placed in the doctor work list associated with the doctor assigned to review the medical request.

The order server sends the validated order which is in the doctor s work list to the order client at the doctor system A. The image server transmits the images to an image client at the doctor system A. The doctor system A is associated with the identified doctor ID and it is accessible by the identified doctor. The doctor may then review the images and the order associated with the request. Ultimately the doctor generates a report based on the review and the report is sent to the medical facility either directly or through the IO management system .

In a further embodiment a forecasting component may also be integrated within the IO Management System to predict an amount and origin of future radiology read requests estimate adequate radiologist staffing for future radiology reads and reserve or forecast processing requirements of the teleradiology image processing system. This information in turn may also be used to ensure enough doctors are available to handle the predicted number and type of radiology read requests. Additionally the information may be used to identify if more radiology read requests are needed to fully utilize the predicted amount of doctors available to review the requests.

The forecasting component may further operate to estimate future usage of the teleradiology image processing system based in part on data derived from the data transmission and the radiology read order. Thus the forecasting component may use historical medical request data to generate a prediction for the amount and origin of medical requests occurring during the future time period. The prediction may indicate the average number of medical requests received per hour from a particular medical facility on a particular day of the week or similar time period. In another implementation the forecasting component may use contractual information associated with each of the medical facilities to assist with generation of the prediction. For example the prediction generator may use an indicator specifying a future timer period to determine what facilities are contractually obligated to submit requests during the period. Moreover the predictive information may be used in workflows or other implemented processing in connection with the use and operation of the teleradiology image processing system.

Those skilled in the art would recognize that the various processing modules and components described herein in addition to the overall structure and operation of a radiology processing system may be adapted for use in a variety of healthcare and information processing settings. Thus some of the components described herein may be removed or substituted without departing from the overall scope of the present invention. Additionally portions of various components and modules described herein may be implemented or interfaced with existing healthcare and radiology processing systems such as existing RIS and PACS systems .

The features of the present invention described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations thereof For example a computer program product designed to perform functions of the described implementations may be embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon an apparatus such as a computing system with a processor and memory may embody components structured to perform functions of the described implementations and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A program is generally a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer or other electronic programmable device to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Although various representative embodiments of this invention have been described above with a certain degree of particularity those skilled in the art could make numerous alterations to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the inventive subject matter set forth in the specification and claims.

