---

title: Distributed commerce application-widget
abstract: In some example embodiments, a system and method are illustrated as including generating an item page that includes widget code and details related to an item for sale. Some example embodiments may include making the widget code available for retrieval from the item page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09613375&OS=09613375&RS=09613375
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09613375
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120831
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 967 911 filed Dec. 31 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 260 687 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 912 077 filed Apr. 16 2007 PUBLICATION AND INFORMATION SYSTEM which are both incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present application relates generally to the technical field of algorithms and programming and in one specific example the use of widgets to implement a distributed commerce and viral marketing regime.

Software applications may be executed within the context of other software applications to perform certain predefined functions. For example a software application written in JavaScript may be executed within the context of a web browser to provide a user of the web browser a richer and dynamic viewing experience. This richer and dynamic viewing experience may be used to sell good and services.

A system and method for using widgets to facilitate distributed commerce are illustrated. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of some embodiments. It may be evident however to one skilled in the art that some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

In some example embodiments a system and method are shown that facilitate distributed commerce and or viral marketing through the use of widgets embedded in web pages. These web pages may be associated with social networking web sites or web sites transacting commerce. These widgets may be used to sell good or services.

In some example embodiments a widget may be a portable piece of code that can be installed and executed within any separate eXtensible Markup Language XML and or Hyper Text Markup Language HTML based web page. Widgets may be implemented using technology and programming techniques that includes Dynamic HTML DHTML Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX FLASH a Java applet or some other suitable technology.

In some example embodiments a widget may be an interface element that is part of a Graphical User Interface GUI . Examples of this type of widget may include a button scroll bar any object appearing in a GUI that may be executed using an input device e.g. a mouse light pen keyboard or touch screen . Further combinations of objects appearing in a GUI may form a widget. Technologies and techniques used to implement a widget may include Java C C Visual Basic or some other suitable programming language.

Some example embodiments may include a system and method to facilitate distributed commerce. Distributed commerce may include distributing widgets in the form of widget code to various users for placement into web pages operated or managed by users of the web pages. These widgets may track a good or service for sale and or allow a person e.g. a natural person or legal entity to purchase the good or service using the widget.

In some example cases viral marketing may be used to distribute these widgets. Viral marketing may include allowing persons to freely distribute and use widget code and to be compensated for the this distribution and use. In one example embodiment a user may retrieve widget code from a commerce server or a social networking server e.g. an originating server and then implement this widget code. This widget code may be implemented on a commerce server or social networking server that is distinct from the originating server. Once this widget code is implemented the user may be compensated monetarily for this use e.g. widget use based upon for example page views of the good or service for sale as advertised by the widget click throughs using the widget bids using the widget or some other suitable basis to count the usage of the widget.

In some example embodiments the widget use is tracked based upon ID values associated with the widget itself e.g. a widget ID the user of the widget e.g. a user ID a buyer of the good or service advertised by the widget e.g. buyer ID or some other suitable basis to track widget use. These ID values may be Globally Unique Identifier GUID value that may serve to distinguish these ID from one another and other values. A GUID may be a 16 byte number that may be hexadecimal decimal or binary in form. In some example embodiments a number of some other suitable length may be used. As used herein ID may GUID may be considered to be interchangeable.

In some example embodiments once the commerce server retrieves item data from the item data store the commerce server may transmit a widget code request to a widget server . This item data may be in the form of a web page e.g. an item page advertising a good or service for sale. This widget server may generate widget code to accompany the item data. This widget code may be sent to the commerce server in response to the widget code request . This widget code may then be combined with an item page to form an item page with widget code . This item page with widget code may be sent back across the network to be displayed on the web interface . The widget server may use any one of a number of the above references technologies and techniques to generate the widget code .

In some example embodiments the widget code request includes item data and code type data. Item data may include data relating to how a web page upon which the widget is to appear is to be formatted. For example the Cascading Style Sheet CSS information for a web page may be included in the item data. The code type data may include identifiers used to identify the technology and techniques to be used to generate a widget.

In some example embodiments once the item page with widget code is received and displayed as a part of the web interface the user may retrieve his or her social networking page from a social networking server . This social networking page may be a web page. In some example embodiments the user may retrieve a web page from some other type of server used to transact commerce. In some example embodiments the user may retrieve a social networking page and display this social networking page as a part of a web browser an Integrated Development Environment IDE an HTML editor or as part of some other suitable application. The user may extract the widget code from the item page with widget code and paste the widget code into the social networking page to generate a social networking page with widget . In some example embodiments this process of extracting the widget code from item page with widget code and inserting or pasting into the social networking page with widget may be automated. Automation may include the user not engaging in any direct action to extract the widget code and insert it into a social networking page. Rather this process is automatically e.g. the widget code is automatically inserted executed by a computer system. This social networking page with widget may then be transmitted across the network by the user utilizing the web interface to be received by the social networking server . The social networking server may store this social networking page with widget into a user page data database. Additionally the social networking server may post or otherwise display for others to review the social networking page with widget .

Some example embodiments may include the item page with widget code that also includes a distribution menu. This distribution menu may identify certain web sites including social networking sites or other commercial sites that transact in good or services to which the widget code may be posted. When executed using an input device a menu selection may prompt the user with a login associated with a selected web site e.g. a social networking site or other commercial site . In some example embodiments HTTP or Secure Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTPS aver a Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP may be used to facilitate the login process. Where login is successful widget code may be directly inserted into the user s web page associated with the web site.

In some example embodiments the commerce server may create a TCP IP connection with a social networking server a social networking server and a social networking server . In some example embodiments HTTP HTTPS or a File Transfer Protocol FTP session may be established between the commerce server and each of the social networking servers and . Once this HTTP HUTS or FTP session is established between the commerce server and each of the social networking servers e.g. and the commerce server may transmit widget code for a page widget code for page and widget code for page across the network to separate social networking servers. For example the widget code for page may be transmitted across the network to be received and posted by the social networking server . The widget code for page may be transmitted across the network to be received by and posted by the social networking server . Additionally the widget code for page may be transmitted across the network to be received by and posted by the social networking server . The widget code for page may be stored into the user page data data base using SQL or MDX. The widget code for page may be stored into the user page data data base using SQL or MDX. The widget code for page may be stored into the user page data database using SQL or MDX. This process for generating widget code and posting it to a plurality of social networking servers will be illustrated below more fully.

Some example embodiments may include the item page with widget code including a share button. This share button when executed using an input device may generate a prompt asking the user where they would like to embed the widget code e.g. what web page associated with what web site and servers associated with the web site . Where a web site is selected the user may be prompted with a login associated with this web site. In some example embodiments HTTP HTTPS or FTP over TCP IP may be used to facilitate the login process. Where login is successful widget code may be directly inserted into the user s web page associated with the web site. This insertion process may not involve user .

In some example embodiments the commerce server and security server may be connected via an internet a LAN or a WAN not pictured . The verification process to verify IDs may be executed by the security server or may occur as a part of the commerce server . Once some type of authentication occurs the commerce server may send an authentication confirmation back across the network to be received by the buyer . Once the authentication confirmation is received by the buyer a complete purchase command may be generated and sent back across the network to be received by the commerce server thereby concluding the purchase of an item advertised by the widget appearing on the social networking page.

In some example embodiments the initial generation of the item purchased with the request ID may be facilitated by for example the buyer generating and transmitting across the network a social networking page request . In response the social networking server may retrieve the requested social networking page from the user data database. A widget may be associated with the requested social networking page so as to generate a social networking page with widget . This social networking page with widget may be transmitted by the social network server back across the network to be displayed within the web interface . This social networking page with widget may then be reviewed and the widget included on the social networking page activated so as to generate the previously referenced item purchase request with ID .

In some example embodiments a widget may be used to purchase a good or service. For example buyer may execute a button on a widget to purchase a good or service. Once this button is executed the widget may establish an HTTP or HTTPS over TCP IP connection with the commerce server . The buyer may be prompted to provide a user ID e.g. a buyer ID . The buyer may be prompted to identify an image in some examples. Where the user ID and image are successfully identified the buyer may be prompted to enter a widget password. Where all or some of the IDs and passwords are valid the buyer may be prompted with a complete purchase page that when executed e.g. a button residing on the page is executed generates a complete purchase signal.

Some example embodiments may include the user receiving some type of credit or other monetary compensation for the user and becoming affiliates of the user . For example each time the widget code existing as a part of social networking page with widget is copied or otherwise utilized by the user or user the user may receive some type of credit or other monetary compensation. Further each time the widget code existing as a part of the social networking page with widget is viewed clicked on or otherwise activated the user may also receive credit or monetary compensation. Additionally in some example embodiments every time the copied widget code with ID is activated by some user the user receives credit or other monetary compensation such that the more users that utilize the copied widget code with ID the more credit or other monetary compensation the user receives.

In some example embodiments the ID value associated with a widget is used to track the viral distribution of a widget from its originating source. For example each time a widget is copied and activated a signal is sent to the commerce server informing the commerce server of the activation of the widget. This tracking of the viral distribution may be facilitated through the establishment of a TCP IP connection between the widget and the commerce server wherein the commerce server is updated as to the activities of the widget. Widget activity or activation may include as referenced elsewhere clicks bids views purchases copying or any other suitable activity. Further the widget may also receive item updates as to changes in the item being advertised by the widget. Users or sites maintaining the server s upon which the web page including the widget resides may receive credit or monetary compensation for the widget activity.

Some example embodiments may include the selling of items using a widget. For example a widget may be posted on a web page. This widget may be a selling widget such that the widget may facilitate the posting of goods or services for sale on the commerce server . In one example embodiment a selling widget is executed so as to posted goods or services for sale on a commerce server . Once executed the user is prompted with a login for the commerce server . The user may then be prompted with a security confirmation image. Further the user may be prompted with a password for a widget. Where one or more of the login security confirmation image or password for the widget is successfully provided the user may be prompted to provide details relating to the good or service for purchase. These item details when entered may then be posted along with the other item data for the good or service being sold. Further these details may also be stored into the item data store . Item details may include seller contact information selling price information condition of item information time of same information lowest bid price information or some other suitable information.

In some example embodiments other example widget code may be implemented. This example widget code may differ based upon the particular function that the widget code is being used to perform. For example widget code is single item widget code. In addition to single item widget code store version widget code may be implemented. An example of this store version widget code may have the form 

These various versions of widget code are only for illustrative purposes. The actual implementation details of how to design and implement a widget may be left up to the individual persons designing a widget.

In some example embodiments shown is an account manager that may reside as a part of a commerce server . This account manager may ensure that the user upon whose social networking page the widget is placed gets credit or monetary compensation for the activation of the widget. Activation may include views of the item using the widget mouse clicks made with regard to the item using the widget purchases of the item may using the widget or some other suitable bases for giving credit or monetary compensation to a user such as user . In examples where a purchase request using widget is generated and received by the widget manager the account manager may generate a purchase confirmation and transmit this purchase confirmation back across the network such as network to be received by the widget . This purchase confirmation may then be sent on to for example a buyer to confirm their purchase using the widget. In some example embodiments the account manager may additionally send widget updates to the widget appearing as a part of the social networking page e.g. social networking page with widget . For example the widget may be updated using the account manager .

In some example embodiments the item page with widget code is received through the execution of an operation . An operation may be executed that extracts widget code from the item page with widget code . An operation may be executed that inserts the widget code into a social networking page. An operation may be executed that transmits the social networking page with widget code or transmits an update signal e.g. signals relating to item updates to be received by the execution operation . Operations through may reside as a part of for example the devices . A social networking page with widget may be received through the execution of operation . In other example embodiments item updates may be transmitted through the execution of operation and received through the execution of operation . An operation is executed to post the social networking page with widget to a user home page on for example the social networking servers or . The operations and may reside as a part of for example the social networking server and or .

In some example embodiments the process for the retrieval of the widget code and the insertion of this widget code into a social networking page are automated. For example where this process is automated a user may need only generate an item page request such that the commerce server my then generate or retrieve the necessary widget code corresponding to the item referenced in the item page request . The commerce server may then associate this widget code with a pre identified social networking page belonging to user . In some example embodiments a script written in for example Pert Python or some other suitable scripting language may be used to identify and retrieve widget code and to associate this widget code with a social networking page. This script may identify data stores including items data e.g. item data store widget code e.g. widget code database and item pages e.g. item page database and retrieve the necessary data to generate for example a social networking page with widget . In lieu of the automatic insertion of widget code into a social networking page in some example embodiments the user as previously discussed may copy and paste the widget code into a respective social networking page.

In some example embodiments server selections may be transmitted through the execution of operation received through the execution of operation . An operation may be executed that broadcast widget codes such as for example widget code for page and to various respective social networking servers such as social networking servers and . In some example embodiments the social networking server to which is transmitted the widget code for page and may be transmitted based on multiple social networking accounts held by the user on social networking servers and . A social networking account may be an account managed by or controlled by a user such as user .

In cases where decisional operation evaluates to true a further decisional operation is executed. In cases where decisions operation is executed the determination is made as to whether or not a cookie has been enabled for authentication purposes. This cookie may be used to authenticate a buyer for example as having an account that is a part of the commerce service . In cases where the buyer is logged on to the commerce server and where cookie authentication has been enabled a further decisional operation is executed. In cases where decisional operation evaluates to false an operation is executed that prompts a buyer such as buyer for log in information. This log in information may include a buyer ID value. In some example embodiments a decisional operation may be executed and that determines whether a buyer is valid. A valid buyer may be a buyer capable of purchasing an item. The capability to purchase an item my be based upon the buyer having the financial means to purchase the item.

In cases where decisional operation evaluates to false operation as previously illustrated may be re executed in an iterative or recursive manner. When decisional operation evaluates to true an operation may be executed that generates an authentication confirmation such as authentication confirmation that may be received through the execution of operation . An operation may be executed that generates a complete purchase signal such that this complete purchase signal may be for example the complete purchase and may signify to the commerce server that the buyer wants to consummate the purchase of the particular item described via the widget.

Some embodiments may include the various databases e.g. or being relational databases or in some cases OLAP based databases. In the case of relational databases various tables of data are created and data is inserted into and or selected from these tables using SQL or some other database query language known in the art. In the case of OLAP databases one or more multi dimensional cubes or hypercubes including multidimensional data from which data is selected from or inserted into using MDX may be implemented. In the case of a database using tables and SQL a database application such as for example MYSQL SQLSERVER Oracle 8I 10G or some other suitable database application may be used to manage the data. In this the case of a database using cubes and MDX a database using Multidimensional On Line Analytic Processing MOLAP Relational On Line Analytic Processing ROLAP Hybrid Online Analytic Processing HOLAP or some other suitable database application may be used to manage the data. These tables or cubes made up of tables in the case of for example ROLAP are organized into an RDS or Object Relational Data Schema ORDS as is known in the art. These schemas may be normalized using certain normalization algorithms so as to avoid abnormalities such as non additive joins and other problems. Additionally these normalization algorithms may include Boyce Codd Normal Form or some other normalization optimization algorithm known in the art.

In some example embodiments a table is shown including item data. This item data may include data describing a particular item for sale as advertised by for example the commerce server . This item data may include data relating to seller contact information price description time of sale deadline for sale or other suitable information. Data types including for example XML data types HTML data types or other suitable data types may be used to store the data included within the table . A table is also shown that includes user account credit data for a particular widget use. Included within this table may be for example a user ID and a widget ID or other new information used to uniquely identify or associate a user and a widget. Data types used to store data within this table may include for example a string integer 128 bit value 256 bit value a BLOB or other suitable data type. Table is also shown that includes administrative codes for coding instructions. This table may include data relating to the particular code type in which a particular widget is to be written. This data may be formatted using a string data type XML data type or some other suitable data type. A table is shown that includes a unique ID for data. Some example embodiments for table includes various key values to uniquely identify data included in each of the previously illustrated tables e.g. tables through . The data types used to uniquely identify each one of the types of data included in each of these tables through may include for example an integer float BLOB or other suitable data type.

In some embodiments a method is illustrated as implemented in a distributed or non distributed software application designed under a three tier architecture paradigm whereby the various components of computer code that implement this method may be categorized as belonging to one or more of these three tiers. Some embodiments may include a first tier as an interface e.g. an interface tier that is relatively free of application processing. Further a second tier may be a logic tier that performs application processing in the form of logical mathematical manipulations of data inputted through the interface level and communicates the results of these logical mathematical manipulations to the interface tier and or to a backend or storage tier. These logical mathematical manipulations may relate to certain business rules or processes that govern the software application as a whole. A third storage tier may be a persistent storage medium or non persistent storage medium. In some cases one or more of these tiers may be collapsed into another resulting in a two tier architecture or even a one tier architecture. For example the interface and logic tiers may be consolidated or the logic and storage tiers may be consolidated as in the case of a software application with an embedded database. This three tier architecture may be implemented using one technology or as will be discussed below a variety of technologies. This three tier architecture and the technologies through which it is implemented may be executed on two or more computer systems organized in a server client peer to peer or some other suitable configuration. Further these three tiers may be distributed between more than one computer system as various software components.

Some example embodiments may include the above illustrated tiers and processes or operations that make them up as being written as one or more software components. Common to many of these components is the ability to generate use and manipulate data. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server or peer computer systems. These various components may be implemented by a computer system on an as needed basis. These components may be written in an object oriented computer language such that a component oriented or object oriented programming technique can be implemented using a Visual Component Library VCL Component Library for Cross Platform CLX Java Beans JB Java Enterprise Beans EJB Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM or other suitable technique. These components may be linked to other components via various Application Programming interfaces APIs and then compiled into one complete server client and or peer software application. Further these APIs may be able to communicate through various distributed programming protocols as distributed computing components.

Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of the above illustrated components across a distributed programming environment as distributed computing components. For example an interface component e.g. an interface tier may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system including a logic component e.g. a logic tier . These first and second computer systems may be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other suitable configuration. These various components may be written using the above illustrated object oriented programming techniques and can be written in the same programming language or a different programming language. Various protocols may be implemented to enable these various components to communicate regardless of the programming language used to write these components. For example a component written in C may be able to communicate with another component written in the Java programming language through utilizing a distributed computing protocol such as a Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or some other suitable protocol. Some embodiments may include the use of one or more of these protocols with the various protocols outlined in the OSI model or TCP IP protocol stack model for defining the protocols used by a network to transmit data.

Some embodiments may utilize the OSI model or TCP FP protocol stack model for defining the protocols used by a network to transmit data. In applying these models a system of data transmission between a server and client or between peer computer systems is illustrated as a series of roughly five layers comprising an application layer a transport layer a network layer a data link layer and a physical layer. In the case of software having a three tier architecture the various tiers e.g. the interface logic and storage tiers reside on the application layer of the TCP IP protocol stack. In an example implementation using the TCP IP protocol stack model data from an application residing at the application layer is loaded into the data load field of a TCP segment residing at the transport layer. This TCP segment also includes port information for a recipient software application residing remotely. This TCP segment is loaded into the data load field of an IP datagram residing at the network layer. Next this IP datagram is loaded into a frame residing at the data link layer. This frame is then encoded at the physical layer and the data transmitted over a network such as an Internet LAN WAN or some other suitable network. In some cases Internet refers to a network of networks. These networks may use a variety of protocols for the exchange of data including the aforementioned TCP IP and additionally ATM SNA SDI or some other suitable protocol. These networks may be organized within a variety of topologies e.g. a star topology or structures.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a Graphics Processing Unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or a Cathode Ray Tube CRT . The computer system may also includes an alpha numeric input device e.g. a keyboard a GUI cursor controller e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device e.g. a transmitter .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions illustrated herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device using any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any of the one or more of the methodologies illustrated herein. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic medium and carrier wave signals 

In some example embodiments a system and method is shown that facilitates the purchase of goods and services through the use of widgets displayed on web pages. These web pages may include web pages appearing one social networking servers. These widgets may be distributed virally by users copying the code associated with the widget manually or automatically and inserting this code into a web page. A user may receive some type of monetary compensation for inserting the widget code into a web page. Further the user may receive monetary compensation each time the widget is activated. Various widget IDs user IDs buyer IDs seller IDs may be used to track widget user buyer and seller activity.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 CFR 1.72 b requiring an abstract that may allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it may not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

