---

title: Crystal structure of human JAK3 kinase domain complex and binding pockets thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to human Janus Kinase 3 (JAK3) and JAK3-like binding pockets. The present invention provides a computer comprising a data storage medium encoded with the structure coordinates of such binding pockets. This invention also relates to methods of using the structure coordinates to solve the structure of homologous proteins or protein complexes. In addition, this invention relates to methods of using the structure coordinates to screen for and design compounds, including inhibitory compounds, that bind to JAK3 protein or JAK3 protein homologues, or complexes thereof. The invention also relates to crystallizable compositions and crystals comprising JAK3 kinase domain and JAK3 kinase domain complexes with AMP-PNP.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08712749&OS=08712749&RS=08712749
owner: Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated
number: 08712749
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 471 896 filed May 26 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 192 972 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 114 979 filed Apr. 26 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 558 717 which claims priority from Provisional Application No. 60 669 771 filed Apr. 8 2005 and Provisional Application No. 60 566 393 filed Apr. 28 2004. Each of these prior applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to human Janus Kinase 3 JAK3 and JAK3 like binding pockets. The present invention provides a computer comprising a data storage medium encoded with the structure coordinates of such binding pockets. This invention also relates to methods of using the structure coordinates to solve the structure of homologous proteins or protein complexes. In addition this invention relates to methods of using the structure coordinates to screen for and design compounds including inhibitory compounds that bind to JAK3 protein or JAK3 protein homologues or complexes thereof. The invention also relates to crystallizable compositions and crystals comprising JAK3 kinase domain and JAK3 kinase domain complexes with AMP PNP.

Janus kinases JAKs are non receptor tyrosine kinases that play an essential role in cytokine signaling Darnell et al. 264 1415 1421 1994 Ihle 60 1 35 1995 . The JAK family consists of four evolutionary conserved mammalian JAK proteins JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 and TYK2 which are each approximately 120 kDa in molecular mass and homologues in other vertebrates such as chicken and zebrafish and . These kinases appear to be responsible for the transmission of signal by most cytokines and neurokines Rane and Reddy 19 5662 5679 2000 . Accumulated evidence suggests that binding of cytokines to their receptors induces receptor oligomerization which results in an increased affinity of the cytoplasmic domain of the receptor for the JAK kinases. As a consequence of this increased affinity the JAK kinases are recruited to the receptors resulting in their phosphorylation and subsequent activation. The activated JAKs then phosphorylate the cytoplasmic tails of the receptors on target tyrosines residues which in turn serve as the docking sites for the Src homology 2 SH2 domains of signal transducer and activation of transcription STAT proteins. The recruited STATs are phosphorylated by JAKs on specific tryosine residues which causes their release from the receptor and finally dimerization through a reciprocal phosphotyrosine SH2 domain interaction Chen et al. 93 827 839 1998 Becker et al. 394 145 151 1998 . The dimerized STAT proteins then translocate to the nucleus where they act as transcription factors.

A unique feature of the domain structure of JAKs that distinguishes them from other tyrosine kinases a C terminal catalytic domain and an immediately preceded pseudokinase domain Ihle supra . The pseudokinase domain lacks canonical residues that are essential for catalytic function. Several lines of evidence suggest that this domain regulates catalytic activity and autophosphorylation Saharinen et al. 14 1448 1459 2003 Saharinen et al. 20 3387 3395 2000 Saharinen et al. 277 47954 47963 2002 Chen et al. 20 947 956 2000 .

In addition to the two kinase domains JAKs contain an N terminal band four point one erzin radixin moesin FERM homology domain and an SH2 like domain Girault et al. 24 54 57 1999 . The FERM domain is a 300 amino acid protein protein interaction module that mediates receptor interactions and is important for the preservation of proper catalytic function Terawaki et al. . D59 177 179 2003 Smith et al. 278 4949 4956 2003 Hamada et al. 19 4449 4462 2000 Hamada et al. 22 502 514 2003 Pearson et al. 101 259 270 2000 Zhou et al. 8 959 969 2001 .

The activity of JAKs is also regulated by the two tyrosines in the activation loop of the catalytic domain Gauzzi et al. 271 20494 20500 1996 Feng et al. 17 2497 2501 1997 Zhou et al. 94 13850 13855 1997 . In JAK3 phosphorylation of Tyr980 and Tyr981 results in positive and negative regulation of its enzymatic activity respective Zhou supra .

JAK3 is predominantly expressed in lymphoid and myeloid cell lines and in hematopoietic tissues such as the thymus bone marrow spleen and fetal liver Rane and Reddy 21 3334 3358 2002 . In contrast other JAKs are ubiquitously expressed. JAK3 specifically associates with the common chain c of the cytokine receptors for interleukin 2 IL 2 IL 4 IL 7 IL 9 IL 15 and IL 21 Kisseleva et al. 285 1 24 2002 O Shea et al. 109 Suppl S121 131 2002 . In humans mutations in JAK3 or c result in sever combined immunodeficiency SCID which is characterized by the absence of circulating mature T cells and natural killer cells but not B cells TBSCID Notarangelo et al. 18 255 263 2001 Roberts et al. 103 2009 2018 2004 Epub in November 2003 . JAK3 mice also exhibit severe immunodeficiency Thomis et al. 270 794 797 1995 .

Therapeutic targeting of JAK3 kinase has received particular attention because the effects owing to the complete absence of JAK3 are limited to the immune system. Several JAK3 inhibitors such as JANEX 1 AG 490 WHI P154 and PNU156804 have been reported Sudbeck et al. 5 1569 1582 1999 Cetkovic Cvrlje et al. 53 648 654 2003 Cetkovic Cvrlje et al. 106 213 225 2003 Saemann et al. 75 1864 1874 2003 Stepkowski et al. 99 680 689 2002 . More recently Pfizer imported an orally active JAK3 selective inhibitor CP 690 550 as an immunosuppressive agent in mouse and monkey transplant models Changelian et al. 302 875 878 2003 . Collectively these data suggest that JAK3 is an attractive pharmacologic target for the treatment of immune mediated transplant rejection Kirken 33 3268 3270 2001 .

Despite its importance in SCID and as a clinical target for immunosuppression very little is known about the three dimensional structure of JAK3. Drug design for human therapy has been hampered because the structure of JAK3 was not previously known. Without structural information of JAK3 the detailed knowledge of the mechanism is limited and progress of designing drugs as specific inhibitors is impeded. Structural information on the unique features of the active site of human JAK3 would facilitate drug discovery.

The present invention solves the problems identified above by providing for the first time the crystal structure of JAK3 AMP PNP complex. This crystal structure of human JAK3 kinase domain in complex with AMP PNP bound to its ATP binding site provides important structural information for the development of novel JAK3 selective inhibitors.

The present invention also provides molecules comprising JAK3 binding pockets or JAK3 like binding pockets that have similar three dimensional shapes. In one embodiment the molecules are JAK3 kinase domain complexes. In another embodiment the molecules are JAK3 kinase domain homologues or complexes thereof. In another embodiment the molecules are in crystalline form.

The invention provides crystallizable compositions and crystals comprising JAK3 kinase domain complexes thereof or homologues thereof.

The invention provides a computer comprising a machine readable storage medium comprising a data storage material encoded with machine readable data wherein the data defines the JAK3 or JAK3 like binding pocket or domain according to the structure coordinates of Table 2. Such storage medium when read and utilized by a computer programmed with appropriate software can display on a computer screen or similar viewing device a three dimensional graphical representation of such binding pockets. In one embodiment the structure coordinates of said binding pocket or domain are produced by homology modeling of at least portion of the coordinates of Table 2.

The invention also provides method for designing selecting evaluating and identifying and or optimizing compounds which bind to the molecules or molecular complexes or their binding pockets. Such compounds are potential inhibitors of JAK3 JAK3 like proteins or its homologues.

The invention also provides a method for determining at least a portion of the three dimensional structure of molecules or molecular complexes which contain at least some structurally similar features to JAK3 particular JAK3 homologues. This is achieved by using at least some of the structure coordinates obtained from the JAK3 kinase domain.

The present invention provides a crystal comprising a Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain homologue complex.

The present invention also provides a crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and a chemical entity selected from the group consisting of adenosine ATP an ATP analogue AMP PNP a nucleotide triphosphate a nucleotide diphosphate phosphate and active site inhibitor.

The present invention also provides a crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and AMP PNP.

The present invention also provides a crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain a crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex a crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and a chemical entity selected from the group consisting of adenosine ATP an ATP analogue AMP PNP a nucleotide triphosphate a nucleotide diphosphate phosphate and active site inhibitor and a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and AMP PNP wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain is selected from the group consisting of amino acid residues 810 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1104 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1115 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1124 of SEQ ID NO 1 and amino acid residues 813 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1.

The present invention also provides crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and a chemical entity selected from the group consisting of adenosine ATP an ATP analogue AMP PNP a nucleotide triphosphate a nucleotide diphosphate phosphate and active site inhibitor and a crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and AMP PNP wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain is amino acid residues 810 1115 of SEQ ID NO 1.

The present invention provides a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain.

The present invention provides a crystallizable composition comprising a Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain homologue.

The present invention provides a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex.

The present invention provides a crystallizable composition comprising a Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain homologue complex.

The present invention also provides a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and a chemical entity selected from the group consisting of adenosine ATP an ATP analogue AMP PNP a nucleotide triphosphate a nucleotide diphosphate phosphate and active site inhibitor.

The present invention also provides a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and AMP PNP.

The present invention also provides a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and a chemical entity selected from the group consisting of adenosine ATP an ATP analogue AMP PNP a nucleotide triphosphate a nucleotide diphosphate phosphate and active site inhibitor and a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and AMP PNP wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain is selected from the group consisting of amino acid residues 810 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 813 1104 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1115 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1124 of SEQ ID NO 1 and amino acid residues 813 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1.

The present invention also provides a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and a chemical entity selected from the group consisting of adenosine ATP an ATP analogue AMP PNP a nucleotide triphosphate a nucleotide diphosphate phosphate and active site inhibitor and a crystallizable composition comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex comprises human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and AMP PNP wherein said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain is amino acid residues 810 1115 of SEQ ID NO 1.

wherein said means for generating three dimensional structural information is provided by means for generating a three dimensional graphical representation of said binding pocket or domain.

wherein said output hardware is a display terminal a printer CD or DVD recorder ZIP or JAZ drive a disk drive or other machine readable data storage device.

The present invention provides a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity that interacts favorably with a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

The present invention also provides a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity that interacts favorably with a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

The present invention also provides a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity that interacts favorably with a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

The present invention also provides a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity that interacts favorably with a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

The present invention provides a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity with a favorable shape complementarity in a binding pocket consisting of a set of amino acid residues that are identical to human Kinase 3 amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 according to Table 2 wherein the root mean square deviation of the backbone atoms between said set of amino acid residues and said human Janus Kinase 3 amino acid residues is not greater than about 2.5 

The present invention also provides a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity with a favorable shape complementarity in a binding pocket consisting of a set of amino acid residues that are identical to human Janus Kinase 3 amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 according to Table 2 wherein the root mean square deviation of the backbone atoms between said set of amino acid residues and said human Janus Kinase 3 amino acid residues is not greater than about 2.5 

The present invention also provides a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity with a favorable shape complementarity in a binding pocket consisting of a set of amino acid residues that are identical to human Janus Kinase 3 amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 according to Table 2 wherein the root mean square deviation of the backbone atoms between said set of amino acid residues and said human Janus Kinase 3 amino acid residues is not greater than about 2.5 

The present invention provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor of a molecule or molecular complex comprising a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

The present invention provides a method of designing a compound or complex that interacts with a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

The present invention provides a method of utilizing molecular replacement to obtain structural information about a molecule or molecular complex of unknown structure wherein the molecule is sufficiently homologous to human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain comprising the steps of 

The present invention also provides a method of utilizing molecular replacement to obtain structural information about a molecule or a molecular complex of unknown structure wherein the molecule is sufficiently homologous to human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain comprising the steps of 

wherein the molecule is selected from the group consisting of a Janus Kinase 3 protein and a protein comprising a Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain homologue.

The present invention also provides a method of utilizing molecular replacement to obtain structural information about a molecule or a molecular complex of unknown structure wherein the molecule is sufficiently homologous to human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain comprising the steps of 

wherein the molecular complex is selected from the group consisting of a Janus Kinase 3 protein complex a Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain complex and a Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain homologue complex.

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

wherein the binding site of said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or said homologue thereof determined in step d comprises the structure coordinates according to Table 1 of a set of amino acid residues that are identical to human Janus Kinase 3 amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Glu985 Glu988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp993 wherein the root mean square deviation from the backbone atoms of said amino acids is not more than 2.0 .

The present invention also provides the method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the step of determining a binding site of said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or the homologue thereof from a three dimensional model to design or identify the candidate inhibitor which interacts with said binding site.

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the step of determining a binding site of said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or the homologue thereof from a three dimensional model to design or identify the candidate inhibitor which interacts with said binding site 

wherein the binding site of said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or said homologue thereof determined comprises the structure coordinates according to Table 1 of a set of amino acid residues that are identical to human Janus Kinase 3 amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Glu985 Glu988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 wherein the root mean square deviation from the backbone atoms of said amino acids is not more than 2.0 .

The present invention also provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor of a molecule or molecular complex comprising a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

The present invention also provides a method of using a crystal comprising a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain and a crystal comprising a Janus Kinase 3 kinase domain homologue in an inhibitor screening assay comprising 

In order that the invention described herein may be more fully understood the following detailed description is set forth.

Throughout the specification the word comprise or variations such as comprises or comprising will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or groups of integers but not exclusion of any other integer or groups of integers.

The term about when used in the context of root mean square deviation RMSD values takes into consideration the standard error of the RMSD value which is 0.1 .

The term associating with refers to a condition of proximity between a chemical entity or compound or portions thereof and a binding pocket or binding site on a protein. The association may be non covalent wherein the juxtaposition is energetically favored by hydrogen bonding hydrophobic van der Waals or electrostatic interactions or it may be covalent.

The term ATP analogue refers to a compound derived from adenosine 5 triphosphate ATP . The compound can be adenosine AMP ADP or a non hydrolyzable analogue such as but not limited to AMP PNP. The analogue may be in complex with magnesium or manganese ions.

The term binding pocket refers to a region of a molecule or molecular complex that as a result of its shape favorably associates with another chemical entity. The term pocket includes but is not limited to a cleft channel or site. JAK3 JAK3 like molecules or homologues thereof may be binding pockets which include but are not limited to peptide or substrate binding sites and ATP binding sites. The shape of a binding pocket may be largely pre formed before binding of a chemical entity may be formed simultaneously with binding of a chemical entity or may be formed by the binding of another chemical entity to a different binding pocket of the molecule which in turn induces a change in shape of the binding pocket.

The term catalytic active site or active site refers to the portion of the protein kinase to which nucleotide substrates bind. For example the catalytic active site of JAK3 is at the interface between the N terminal and C terminal domains.

The term chemical entity refers to chemical compounds complexes of at least two chemical compounds and fragments of such compounds or complexes. The chemical entity can be for example a ligand substrate nucleotide triphosphate nucleotide diphosphate phosphate nucleotide agonist antagonist inhibitor antibody peptide protein or drug. In one embodiment the chemical entity is an inhibitor or substrate for the active site.

The term conservative substitutions refers to residues that are physically or functionally similar to the corresponding reference residues. That is a conservative substitution and its reference residue have similar size shape electric charge chemical properties including the ability to form covalent or hydrogen bonds or the like. Preferred conservative substitutions are those fulfilling the criteria defined for an accepted point mutation in Dayhoff et al. 5 345 352 1978 Supp. which is incorporated herein by reference. Examples of conservative substitutions are substitutions including but not limited to the following groups a valine glycine b glycine alanine c valine isoleucine leucine d aspartic acid glutamic acid e asparagine glutamine f serine threonine g lysine arginine methionine and h phenylalanine tyrosine.

The term contact score refers to a measure of shape complementarity between the chemical entity and binding pocket which is correlated with an RMSD value obtained from a least square superimposition between all or part of the atoms of the chemical entity and all or part of the atoms of the ligand bound for example AMP PNP in the binding pocket according to Table 2. The docking process may be facilitated by the contact score or RMSD values. For example if the chemical entity moves to an orientation with high RMSD the system will resist the motion. A set of orientations of a chemical entity can be ranked by contact score. A lower RMSD value will give a higher contact score. See Meng et al. 4 505 524 1992 .

The term corresponds to to corresponding amino acid when used in the context of amino acid residues that correspond to JAK3 amino acid residues refers to particular amino acid residues or analogues thereof in a JAK3 kinase domain homologue that corresponds to amino acid residues in the human JAK3 kinase domain. The corresponding amino acid may be an identical mutated chemically modified conserved conservatively substituted functionally equivalent or homologous amino acid residue when compared to the JAK3 amino acid residue to which it corresponds.

Methods for identifying a corresponding amino acid are known in the art and are based upon are sequence structural alignment its functional position or a combination thereof as compared to the JAK3 kinase. For example corresponding amino acids may be identified by superimposing the backbone atoms of the amino acids in JAK3 and the protein using well known software applications such as QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 . The corresponding amino acids may also be identified using sequence alignment programs such as the bestfit program or CLUSTAL W Alignment Tool Higgins et al. 266 383 402 1996 .

The term crystallization solution refers to a solution that promotes crystallization comprising at least one agent including a buffer one or more salts a precipitating agent one or more detergents sugars or organic compounds lanthanide ions a poly ionic compound and or a stabilizer.

The term docking refers to orienting rotating translating a chemical entity in the binding pocket domain molecule or molecular complex or portion thereof based on distance geometry or energy. Docking may be performed by distance geometry methods that find sets of atoms of a chemical entity that match sets of sphere centers of the binding pocket domain molecule or molecular complex or portion thereof. See Meng et al. 4 505 524 1992 . Sphere centers are generated by providing an extra radius of given length from the atoms excluding hydrogen atoms in the binding pocket domain molecule or molecular complex or portion thereof. Real time interaction energy calculations energy minimizations or rigid body minimizations Gschwend et al. 9 175 186 1996 can be performed while orienting the chemical entity to facilitate docking. For example interactive docking experiments can be designed to follow the path of least resistance. If the user in an interactive docking experiment makes a move to increase the energy the system will resist that move. However if that user makes a move to decrease energy the system will favor that move by increased responsiveness. Cohen et al. 33 889 894 1990 . Docking can also be performed by combining a Monte Carlo search technique with rapid energy evaluation using molecular affinity potentials. See Goodsell and Olsen 8 195 202 1990 . Software programs that carry out docking functions include but are not limited to MATCHMOL Cory et al. 2 39 1984 MOLFIT Redington 16 216 1992 and DOCK Meng et al. supra .

The term full length JAK3 refers to the complete human JAK3 protein amino acid residues 1 to 1124 SEQ ID NO 1 .

The term generating a three dimensional structure or generating a three dimensional representation refers to converting the lists of structure coordinates into structural models or graphical representation in three dimensional space. This can be achieved through commercially or publicly available software. A model of a three dimensional structure of a molecule or molecular complex can thus be constructed on a computer screen by a computer that is given the structure coordinates and that comprises the correct software. The three dimensional structure may be displayed or used to perform computer modeling or fitting operations. In addition the structure coordinates themselves without the displayed model may be used to perform computer based modeling and fitting operations.

The term homologue of JAK3 kinase domain or JAK3 kinase domain homologue refers to a domain that retains JAK3 kinase activity and that has mutations conservative substitutions or both as compared to the human JAK3 kinase domain. In one embodiment the homologue is at least 95 96 97 98 or 99 identical in sequence to amino acid residues 810 1124 of SEQ ID NO 1 and has conservative substitutions as compared to the JAK3 kinase domain. In another embodiment the homologue is at least 95 96 97 98 or 99 identical in sequence to amino acid residues 813 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1 and has conservative substitutions as compared to the JAK3 kinase domain. Examples of homologues include but are not limited to the following the kinase domains of JAK3 from another species or the foregoing with mutations conservative substitutions or both. Such animal species include but are not limited to mouse rat a primate such as monkey or other primates.

The term homology model refers to a structural model derived from know three dimensional structure s . Generation of the homology model termed homology modeling can include sequence alignment residue replacement residue conformation adjustment through energy minimization or a combination thereof.

The term interaction energy refers to the energy determined for the interaction of a chemical entity and a binding pocket domain molecule or molecular complex or portion thereof. Interactions include but are not limited to one or more of covalent interactions non covalent interactions such as hydrogen bond electrostatic hydrophobic aromatic van der Waals interactions and non complementary electrostatic interactions such as repulsive charge charge dipole dipole and charge dipole interactions. As interactions energies are measured in negative values the lower the value the more favorable the interaction.

The term JAK refers to the kinases from the JAK kinase family. Examples of this family of kinases include but are not limited to JAK3 JAK2 JAK1 and TYK2.

The term JAK3 ATP binding pocket refers to a binding pocket of a molecule or molecular complex defined by the structure coordinates of a certain set of amino acid residues present in the JAK3 structure as described below. In general the ligand for the ATP binding pocket is a nucleotide such as ATP. This binding pocket is in the catalytic active site of the catalytic domain. In the protein kinase family the ATP binding pocket is generally located at the interface of the N terminal and C terminal domains and is bordered by the glycine rich loop and the hinge see Xie et al. 6 983 991 1998 incorporated herein by reference .

The term JAK3 catalytic domain JAK3 kinase catalytic domain JAK3 protein kinase catalytic domain JAK3 catalytic kinase domain or JAK3 kinase domain refers to human JAK3 amino acid residues 810 1115 of SEQ ID NO 1 or the foregoing with additions and deletions of up to 9 amino acid residues at the C terminal and or 20 amino acids at the N terminal of these amino acid residues. The kinase domain includes the catalytic active site.

The term JAK3 inhibitor binding pocket refers to that portion of the JAK3 enzyme active site to which the inhibitor binds. The inhibitor binding pocket is defined by the structure coordinates of a certain set of amino acid residues present in the JAK3 inhibitor structure.

The term JAK3 like refers to all or a portion of a molecule or molecular complex that has a commonality of shape to all or a portion of the JAK3 protein. For example in the JAK3 like ATP binding pocket the commonality of shape is defined by a root mean square deviation of the structure coordinates of the backbone atoms between the amino acids in the JAK3 like ATP binding pocket and the JAK3 amino acids of the JAK3 ATP binding pocket the corresponding amino acid residues in the JAK3 like binding pocket may or may not be identical. Depending on the set of JAK3 amino acid residues that define the JAK3 ATP binding pocket one skilled in the art would be able to locate the corresponding amino acid residues that define a JAK3 like binding pocket in a protein based on sequence or structural homology.

The term JAK3 protein complex or JAK3 homologue complex refers to a molecular complex formed by associating the JAK3 protein or JAK3 homologue with a chemical entity for example a ligand a substrate nucleotide triphosphate nucleotide diphosphate phosphate an agonist or antagonist inhibitor antibody drug or compound.

The term motif refers to a group of amino acid residues in the JAK3 kinase or homologue that defines a structural compartment or carries out a function in the protein for example catalysis structural stabilization or phosphorylation. The motif may be conserved in sequence structure and function. The motif can be contiguous in primary sequence or three dimensional space. Examples of a motif include but are not limited to a binding pocket activation loop the glycine rich loop and the DFG loop See Xie et al. 6 983 991 1998 .

The term part of a binding pocket refers to less than all of the amino acid residues that define the binding pocket. The structure coordinates of amino acid residues that constitute part of a binding pocket may be specific for defining the chemical environment of the binding pocket or useful in designing fragments of an inhibitor that may interact with those residues. For example the portion of amino acid residues may be key residues that play a role in ligand binding or may be residues that are spatially related and define a three dimensional compartment of the binding pocket. The amino acid residues may be contiguous or non contiguous in primary sequence. In one embodiment part of the binding pocket has at least two amino acid residues preferably at least three six eight ten fourteen or fifteen amino acid residues.

The term part of a JAK3 kinase domain or part of a JAK3 kinase domain homologue refers to less than all of the amino acid residues of a JAK3 kinase domain or kinase domain homologue. In one embodiment part of the JAK3 kinase domain or kinase domain homologue defines the binding pockets sub domains and motifs. The structure coordinates of amino acid residues that constitute part of a JAK3 kinase domain or JAK3 kinase domain homologue may be specific for defining the chemical environment of the protein or useful in designing fragments of an inhibitor that interact with those residues. The portion of amino acid residues may also be residues that are spatially related and define a three dimensional compartment of the binding pocket or motif. The amino acid residues may be contiguous or non contiguous in primary sequence. For example the portion of amino acid residues may be key residues that play a role in ligand or substrate binding peptide binding antibody binding catalysis structural stabilization or degradation.

The term quantified association refers to calculations of distance geometry and energy. Energy can include but is not limited to interaction energy free energy and deformation energy. See Cohen supra.

The term root mean square deviation or RMSD means the square root of the arithmetic mean of the squares of the deviations from the mean. It is a way to express the deviation or variation from a trend or object. For purposes of the invention the root means square deviation defines the variation in the backbone atoms of JAK3 a binding pocket a motif a domain or portion thereof as defined by the structure coordinates of JAK3 described herein. It would be apparent to the skilled worker that the calculation of RMSD involves a standard error of a 0.1 .

The term soaked refers to a process in which the crystal is transferred to a solution containing the compound of interest.

The term structure coordinates refers to Cartesian coordinates derived from mathematical equations related to the patterns obtained on diffraction of a monochromatic beam of X rays by the atoms scattering centers of a protein or protein complex in crystal form. The diffraction data are used to calculate an electron density map of the repeating unit of the crystal. The electron density maps are then used to establish the positions of the individual atoms of the molecule or molecular complex.

The term substantially all of a JAK3 binding pocket or substantially all of a JAK3 kinase domain refers to all or almost all of the amino acids in the JAK3 binding pocket or kinase domain. For example substantially all of a JAK3 binding pocket can be 100 95 90 80 or 70 of the residues defining the JAK3 binding pocket.

The term substrate binding pocket refers to the binding pocket for a substrate of JAK3 or homologue thereof. A substrate is generally defined as the molecule upon which an enzyme performs catalysis. Natural substrates synthetic substrates or peptides or mimics of a natural substrate of JAK3 or homologue thereof may associate with the substrate binding pocket.

The term sufficiently homologous to JAK3 kinase domain refers to a protein that has a sequence identity of at least 25 compared to JAK3 kinase domain. In other embodiments the sequence identity is at least 40 . In other embodiments the sequence identity is at least 50 60 70 80 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 .

The term three dimensional structural information refers to information obtained from the structure coordinates. Structural information generated can include the three dimensional structure or graphical representation of the structure. Structural information can also be generated when subtracting distances between atoms in the structure coordinates calculating chemical energies for a JAK3 molecule or molecular complex or homologues thereof calculating or minimizing energies for an association of a JAK3 molecule or molecular complex or homologues thereof to a chemical entity.

According to one embodiment the invention provides a crystal or crystallizable composition comprising a JAK3 kinase domain a JAK3 kinase domain homologue a JAK3 kinase domain complex or a JAK3 kinase domain homologue complex. In one embodiment the chemical entry is an ATP analogue nucleotide triphosphate nucleotide diphosphate phosphate adenosine or AMP PNP. In a certain embodiment the chemical entity is AMP PNP.

The JAK3 kinase domain in the crystal or crystallizable composition may be amino acid residues 810 1124 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1115 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1104 of SEQ ID NO 1 amino acid residues 810 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1 or amino acid residues 813 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1 the JAK3 kinase domain homologue may be the foregoing with conservative substitutions.

In one embodiment the a crystallizable composition comprises a crystallization solution of equal volumes of JAK3 protein 7.5 30 mg ml a salt a buffer between pH 5.0 and 7.0 0 10 mM DTT and a polyethylene glycol. The salt includes but is not limited to KCl NaCl and NH SO. The polyethylene glycol includes but is limited to PEGMME 550 PEGMME2000 PEG4000 PEG6000. If the crystals are derived from seeding techniques the concentration of the polyethylene glycol may be less than 20 . In another embodiment the crystallizable composition comprises a crystallization solution of equal volumes of JAK3 protein 10 15 mg mL in 50 mM Hepes at pH 8.0 500 mM NaCl 20 v v glycerol 5 mM DTT and 0.05 w v octylglucopyranoside and a solution of 20 26 PEG 3350 200 260 mM KCl 20 mM spermine 10 mM DTT and 100 mM bis Tris pH 6.0. In one embodiment the volume of protein used is 0.5 L. In another embodiment the volume of protein used in 1.0 L. In another embodiment the volume of protein used in 2.0 L.

Crystals can be grown using sitting drop or hanging drop vapour diffusion techniques such as but not limited to techniques described in Example 3. Crystals can be grown in the Corning 384 Well plate available from Fisher Scientific Greiner crystallization low profile plates available from Hampton Research Aliso Veijo Calif. both the 96 well CrystalQuick standard profile round and flat bottom plates available from Hampton Research Aliso Viejo Calif. and the 24 well VDX plates available from Hampton Research Aliso Viejo Calif. . The volume of the reservoir for the 384 well plate can be 50 L. The volume of the reservoir for the 96 well low profile plate can be 100 L and for the CrystalQuick plates it can be varied between 70 100 L. Crystals can also be grown in 72 well terasaki plates using the microbatch method. They also can be grown in 96 well Corning available from Hampton Research Aliso Viejo Calif. with a reservoir of 50 L.

According to one embodiment the invention provides for a crystal with unit cell dimensions of a 59.98 b 90.19 c 69.00 90 111.5 and space group P2with 2 molecules in the asymmetric unit. Preferably the crystal comprises the JAK3 AMP PNP complex.

According to another embodiment the invention provides for a crystal with unit cell dimensions of a 72.36 b 90.04 c 105.60 90 and a space P222with 2 molecules in the symmetric unit. Preferably the crystal comprises the JAK3 AMP PNP complex.

It will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that the unit cells of the crystal compositions may deviate up to 1 4 in cell length and 7 8 in angle in the P2space group from the above cell dimensions depending on the deviation in the unit calculations or conformational change in the protein.

The JAK3 kinase domain or homologue thereof may be produced by any well known method including synthetic methods such as solid phase liquid phase and combination solid phase liquid phase syntheses recombinant DNA methods including cDNA cloning optionally combined with site directed mutagenesis and or purification of the natural products. In one embodiment the protein is overexpressed in baculovirus system.

The invention also relates to a method of obtaining a crystal of JAK3 kinase domain of JAK3 homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

The invention also relates to a method of obtaining a crystal of a JAK3 kinase domain complex or JAK3 kinase domain homologue complex further comprising the step of 

The invention also relates to a method of obtaining a crystal of JAK3 kinase domain complex or JAK3 kinase domain homologue complex comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the chemical entity is selected from the group consisting of an ATP analogue nucleotide triphosphate nucleotide diphosphate phosphate adenosine AMP PNP substrate inhibitor or active site inhibitor. In another embodiment the crystallization solution is as described previously. In another embodiment the composition is treated with micro crystals of JAK3 kinase domain or JAK3 kinase domain homologues or complexes thereof.

In certain embodiments the method of making crystals of JAK3 kinase domain. JAK3 kinase domain homologues or complexes thereof includes the use of a device for promoting crystallizations. Devices for promoting crystallization can include but are not limited to the hanging drop sitting drop dialysis or microtube batch devices. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 886 646 5 096 676 5 130 105 5 221 410 and 5 400 741 Pav et al. 20 98 102 1994 incorporated herein by reference . The hanging drop sitting drop and some adaptations of the microbatch methods D Arcy et al. 168 175 180 1996 and Chayen 30 198 202 1997 produce crystals by vapor diffusion. The hanging drop and sitting drop containing the crystallizable composition is equilibrated in a reservoir containing a higher or lower concentration of the precipitant. As the drop approaches equilibrium with the reservoir the saturation of protein in the solution leads to the formation of crystals.

Microseeding or seeding may be used to increase the size and quality of crystals. In this instance micro crystals are crushed to yield a stock seed solution. The stock seed solution is diluted in series. Using a needle glass rod micro pipet micro loop or strand of hair a small sample from each diluted solution is added to a set of equilibrated drops containing a protein concentration equal to or less than a concentration needed to create crystals without the presence of seeds. The aim is to end up with a single seed crystal that will act to nucleate crystal growth in the drop.

In would be readily apparent to one of skill the art to vary the crystallization conditions disclosed above to identify other crystallization conditions that would produce crystals of a JAK3 kinase domain homologue a JAK3 kinase domain homologue complex a JAK3 kinase domain or another JAK3 kinase domain complex. Such variations include but are not limited to adjusting pH protein concentration and or crystallization temperature changing the identity or concentration of salt and or precipitant used using a different method of crystallization or introducing additives such as detergents e.g. TWEEN 20 monolaurate LDAO Brij 30 4 lauryl ether sugars e.g. glucose maltose organic compounds e.g. dioxane dimethylformamide lanthanide ions or polyionic compounds that aid in crystallization. High throughput crystallization assays may also be used to assist in finding or optimizing the crystallization condition.

As disclosed herein applicants have provided the three dimensional X ray structure of JAK3 AMP PNP complex. The atomic coordinates for the structures of JAK3 AMP PNP complex are presented in Table 2.

To use the structure coordinates generated for the JAK3 complex or one of its binding pockets or homologues thereof it may be necessary to convert the structure coordinates or portions thereof into a three dimensional shape i.e. a three dimensional representation of these complexes or binding pockets . This is achieved through the use of a computer and commercially available software that is capable of generating the three dimensional representations or structures of molecules or molecular complexes or portions thereof from a set of structural coordinates. These three dimensional representations may be displayed on a computer screen.

Binding pockets also referred to as binding sites in the present invention are of significant utility in fields such as drug discovery. The association of natural ligands or substrates with the binding pockets of their corresponding receptors or enzymes is the basis of many biological mechanisms of action. Similarly many drugs exert their biological effects through association with the binding pockets of receptors and enzymes. Such associations may occur with all or part of the binding pocket. An understanding of such associations will help lead to the design of drugs having more favorable associations with their target receptor or enzyme and thus improved biological effects. Therefore this information is valuable in designing potential inhibitors of the binding pockets of biologically important targets. The binding pockets of this invention will be important for drug design.

The conformations of JAK3 and other proteins at a particular amino acid site along the polypeptide backbone can be compared using well known procedures for performing sequence alignments of the amino acids. Such sequence alignments allow for the equivalent sites on these proteins to be compared. Such methods for performing sequence alignment include but are not limited to the bestfit program and CLUSTAL W Alignment Tool Higgins et al. supra.

In one embodiment the ATP binding pocket comprises amino acid residues Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Ala853 Lys855 Val884 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Cys909 Arg911 Asp949 Arg953 Asn954 Leu956 Asp967 and Gln988 according to the structure of the JAK3 AMP PNP complex in Table 2. These amino acid residues are within 5 5 sphere of amino acids of AMP PNP bound in the ATP binding pocket as identified using the program QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 .

In another embodiment the ATP binding pocket comprises amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 according to the structure of the JAK3 AMP PNP complex in Table 2. These amino acid residues are within 8 8 sphere of amino acids of AMP PNP bound in the ATP binding pockets as identified using the program QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 .

It will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art that the numbering of amino acid residues in homologues of human JAK3 may be different than that set forth for human JAK3. Corresponding amino acids in JAK3 homologues are easily identified by visual inspection of the amino acid sequences or by using commercially available homology software programs. Homologues of JAK3 include for example JAK3 from other species such as non humans primates mouse rat etc.

Those of skill in the art understand that set of structure coordinates for an enzyme or an enzyme complex or a portion thereof is a relative set of points that define a shape in three dimensions. Thus it is possible that an entirely different set of coordinates could define a similar or identical shape. Moreover slight variations in the individual coordinates will have little effect on overall shape. In terms of binding pockets these variations would not be expected to significantly alter the nature of ligands that could associate with those pockets.

The variations in coordinates discussed above may be generated because of mathematical manipulations of the JAK3 AMP PNP structure coordinates. For example the structure coordinates set forth in Table 2 may undergo crystallographic permutations of the structure coordinates fractionalization of the structure coordinates integer additions or subtractions to sets of the structure coordinates inversion of the structure coordinates or any combinations of the above.

Alternatively modifications in the crystal structure due to mutations additions substitutions and or deletions of amino acids or other changes in any of the components that make up the crystal may also account for variations in structure coordinates. If such variations are within a certain root mean square deviation as compared to the original coordinates the resulting three dimensional shape is considered encompassed by this invention. Thus for example a ligand that bound to the ATP binding pocket of JAK3 would also be expected to bind to another binding pocket whose structure coordinates defined a shape that fell within the RMSD value.

Various computational analyses may be necessary to determine whether a molecule or binding pocket or portion thereof is sufficiently similar to the binding pockets above described. Such analyses may be carried out in well known software applications such as ProFit A.C.R. Martin ProFit version 1.8 http www.bioinf.org.uk software Swiss Pdb Viewer Guex and Peitsch 18 2714 2723 1997 the Molecular Similarity application of QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 and as described in the accompanying User s Guide which are incorporated herein by reference.

The above programs permit comparisons between different structures different conformations of the same structure and different parts of the same structure. The procedure used in QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 and Swiss Pdb Viewer Guex and Peitsch 18 2714 2723 1997 to compare structures is divided into four steps 1 load the structures to be compared 2 define the atom equivalences in these structures 3 perform a fitting operation on the structures and 4 analyze the results.

The procedure used in ProFit to compare structures includes the following steps 1 load the structures to be compared 2 specify selected residues of interest 3 define the atom equivalences in the selected residues 4 perform a fitting operation on the selected residues and 5 analyze the results.

Each structure in the comparison is identified by a name. One structure is identified as the target i.e. the fixed structure all remaining structures are working structures i.e. moving structures . Since atom equivalency within QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 is defined by user input for the purposes of this invention we will define equivalent atoms as protein backbone atoms N O C and C for all corresponding amino acid residues between two structures being compared.

The corresponding amino acids may be identified by sequence alignment programs such as the bestfit program available from the Genetics Computer Group which uses the local homology algorithm described by Smith and Waterman in 2 482 1981 which is incorporated herein by reference. A suitable amino acid sequence alignment will require that the proteins being aligned share minimum percentage of identical amino acids. Generally a first protein being aligned with a second protein should share in excess of about 35 identical amino acids Hanks et al. 241 42 1988 Hanks and Quinn 200 38 1991 . The identification of equivalent residues can also be assisted by secondary structure alignment for example aligning the helices sheets in the structure. The program Swiss Pdb viewer Guex and Peitsch 18 2714 2723 1997 utilizes a best fit algorithm that is based on secondary sequence alignment.

When a rigid fitting method is used the working structure is translated and rotated to obtain an optimum fit with the target structure. The fitting operation uses an algorithm that computes the optimum translation and rotation to be applied to the moving structure such that the root mean square difference of the fit over the specified pairs of equivalent atom is an absolute minimum. This number given in angstroms is reported by the above programs. The Swiss Pdb Viewer program Guex and Peitsch 18 2714 2723 1997 sets an RMSD cutoff for eliminating pairs of equivalent atoms that have high RMSD values. An RMSD cutoff value can be used to exclude pairs of equivalent atoms with extreme individual RMSD values. In the program ProFit the RMSD cutoff value can be specified by the user.

For the purpose of this invention any molecule molecular complex binding pocket motif domain thereof or portion thereof that is within a root mean square deviation for backbone atoms N C C O when superimposed on the relevant backbone atoms described by structure coordinates listed in Table 2 are encompassed by this invention.

One embodiment of this invention provides a crystalline molecule comprising a protein defined by structure coordinates of a set of amino acid residues that are identical to JAK3 amino acid residues according to Table 2 wherein the RMSD between backbone atoms of said set of amino acid residues and said JAK3 amino acid residues is not more than about 3.0 . In other embodiments the RMSD between backbone atoms of said set of amino acid residues and said JAK3 amino acid residues is not greater than about 2.0 not greater than about 1.5 not greater than about 1.1 not greater than about 1.0 not greater than about 0.9 not greater than about 0.8 not greater than about 0.7 not greater than about 0.6 or not greater than about 0.5 . Calculations of RMSD values were done with Swiss Pdb Viewer Guex Peitsch 18 2714 2723 1997 .

In one embodiment the present invention provides a crystalline molecule comprising all or part of a binding pocket defined by a set of amino acid residues comprising amino acid residues which are identical to human JAK3 amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 according to Table 2 wherein the RMSD of the backbone atoms between said JAK3 amino acid residues and said amino acid residues which are identical is not greater than about 2.5 . In other embodiments the RMSD is not greater than about 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.5 0.3 or 0.2 . In other embodiments the binding pocket is defined by a set of amino acid residues comprising at least four six eight ten twelve fifteen twenty twenty five thirty thirty five forty forty five or fifty amino acid residues which are identical to said JAK3 amino acid residues.

According to another embodiment this invention provides a machine readable data storage medium comprising a data storage material encoded with machine readable data wherein said data defines the above mentioned molecules or molecular complexes. In one embodiment the data defines the above mentioned binding pockets by comprising the structure coordinates of said amino acid residues according to Table 2. To use the structure coordinates generated for JAK3 homologues thereof or one of its binding pockets it is at times necessary to convert them into a three dimensional shape or to extract three dimensional structural information from them. This is achieved through the use of commercially or publicly available software that is capable of generating a three dimensional structure or a three dimensional representation of molecules or portions thereof from a set of structure coordinates. In one embodiment three dimensional structure or representation may be displayed graphically.

Therefore according to another embodiment this invention provides a machine readable data storage medium comprising a data storage material encoded with machine readable data. In one embodiment a machine programmed with instructions for using said data is capable of generating a three dimensional structure or three dimensional representation of any of the molecules or molecular complexes or binding pockets thereof that are described herein.

Three dimensional data generation may be provided by an instruction or set of instructions such as a computer program or commands for generating a three dimensional structure or graphical representation from structure coordinates or by subtracting distances between atoms calculating chemical energies for a JAK3 molecule or molecular complex or homologues thereof or calculating or minimizing energies for an association of a JAK3 molecule or molecular complex or homologues thereof to a chemical entity. The graphical representation can be generated or displayed by commercially available software programs. Examples of software programs include but are not limited to QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 O Jones et al. 47 110 119 1991 and RIBBONS Carson 24 958 961 1991 which are incorporated herein by reference. Certain software programs may imbue this representation with physico chemical attributes which are know from the chemical composition of the molecule such as residue charge hydrophobicity torsional and rotational degrees of freedom for the residue or segment etc. Examples of software programs for calculating chemical energies are described in the Rational Drug Design section.

Information of said binding pocket or information produced by using said binding pocket can be outputted through display terminals touchscreens facsimile machines modems CD ROMS printers a CD or DVD recorder ZIP or JAZ drives or disk drives. The information can be in graphical or alphanumeric form.

In one embodiment the computer is executing an instruction such as a computer program for generating three dimensional structure or docking. In another embodiment the computer further comprises a commercially available software program to display the information as a graphical representation. Examples of software programs include but as not limited to QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 O Jones et al. 47 110 119 1991 and RIBBONS Carson 24 958 961 1991 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Input hardware coupled to computer by input lines may be implemented in a variety of ways. Machine readable data of this invention may be inputted via the use of a modem or modems connected by a telephone line or dedicated data line . Alternatively or additionally the input hardware may comprise CD ROM or DVD ROM drives or disk drives . In conjunction with display terminal keyboard may also be used as an input device.

Output hardware coupled to computer by output lines may similarly be implemented by conventional devices. By way of example output hardware may include CRT display terminal for displaying a graphical representation of a binding pocket of this invention using a program such as QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 as described herein. Output hardware may also include a printer so that hard copy output may be produced or a disk drive to store system output for later use. Output hardware may also include a display terminal touchscreens facsimile machines modems a CD or DVD recorder ZIP or JAZ drives disk drives or other machine readable data storage device.

In operation CPU coordinates the use of the various input and output devices coordinates data accesses from mass storage and accesses to and from working memory and determines the sequence of data processing steps. A number of programs may be used to process the machine readable data of this invention. Such programs are discussed in reference to the computational methods of drug discovery as described herein. Specific references to components of the hardware system are included as appropriate throughout the following description of the data storage medium.

The magnetic domains of coating of medium are polarized or oriented so as to encode in manner which may be conventional machine readable data such as that described herein for execution by a system such as system of .

In the case of CD ROM as is well known coating is reflective and is impressed with a plurality of pits to encode the machine readable data. The arrangement of pits is read by reflecting laser light off the surface of coating . A protective coating which preferably is substantially transparent is provided on top of coating .

In the case of a magneto optical disk as is well known coating has no pits but has a plurality of magnetic domains whose polarity or orientation can be changed magnetically when heated above a certain temperature as by a laser not shown . The orientation of the domains can be read by measuring the polarization of laser light reflected from coating . The arrangement of the domains encodes the data as described above.

In one embodiment the structure coordinates of said molecules or molecular complexes are provided by homology modeling of at least a portion of the structure coordinates of Table 2. Homology modeling can be used to generate structural models of JAK3 homologues or other homologues proteins based on the known structure of JAK3. This can be achieved by performing one or more of the following steps performing sequence alignment between the amino acid sequence of a molecule possibly an unknown molecule against the amino acid sequence of JAK3 identifying conserved and variable regions by sequence or structure generating structure coordinates for structurally conserved residues of the unknown structure from those of JAK3 generating conformation for the structurally variable residues in the unknown structure replacing the non conserved residues of JAK3 with residues in the unknown structure building side chain conformations and refining and or evaluating the unknown structure.

Software programs that are useful in homology modeling include XALIGN Wishart et al. 10 687 688 1994 and CLUSTAL W Alignment Tool Higgins et al. supra. See also U.S. Pat. No. 5 884 230. These references are incorporated herein by reference.

To perform the sequence alignment programs such as the bestfit program available from the Genetics Computer Group Waterman in 2 482 1981 which is incorporated herein by reference and CLUSTAL W Alignment Tool Higgins et al. supra which is incorporated by reference can be used. To model the amino acid side chains of homologous molecules the amino acid residues in JAK3 can be replaced using a computer graphics program such as O Jones et al. 47 110 119 1997 by those of the homologous protein where they differ. The same orientation or a different orientation of the amino acid can be used. Insertions and deletions of amino acid residues may be necessary where gaps occur in the sequence alignment. However certain portions of the active site of JAK3 and its homologues are highly conserved with essentially no insertions and deletions.

Homology modeling can be performed using for example the computer programs SWISS MODEL available through Glaxo Wellcome Experimental Research in Geneva Switzerland WHATIF available on EMBL servers Schnare et al. 256 701 719 1996 Blundell et al. 326 347 352 1987 Fetrow and Bryant 11 479 484 1993 Greer 202 239 252 1991 and Johnson et al. 29 1 68 1994 . An example of homology modeling can be found for example in Szklarz 61 2507 2520 1997 . These references are incorporated herein by reference.

Thus in accordance with the present invention data capable of generating the three dimensional structure or three dimensional representation of the above molecules or molecular complexes or binding pockets thereof can be stored in a machine readable storage medium which is capable of displaying structural information or a graphical three dimensional representation of the structure. In one embodiment the means of generating a three dimensional is provided by the means for generating a three dimensional structural representation of the binding pocket or protein of a molecule or molecular complex.

The JAK3 structure coordinates or the three dimensional graphical representation generated from these coordinates may be used in conjunction with a computer for a variety of purposes including drug discovery.

For example the structure encoded by the data may be computationally evaluated for its ability to associate with chemical entities. Chemical entities that associate with JAK3 may inhibit or activate JAK3 or its homologues and are potential drug candidates. Alternatively the structure encoded by the data may be displayed in a graphical three dimensional representation on a computer screen. This allows visual inspection of the structure as well as visual inspection of the structure s association with chemical entities.

In one embodiment the invention provides for a method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity that interacts favorably with a binding pocket or domain comprising the steps of 

Three dimensional structural information in step a may be generated by instructions such as a computer program or commands that can generate a three dimensional representation subtract distances between atoms calculate chemical energies for a JAK3 molecule molecular complex or homologues thereof or calculate or minimize the chemical energies of an association of JAK3 molecule molecular complex or homologues thereof to a chemical entity. These types of computer programs are known in the art. The graphical representation can be generated or displayed by commercially available software programs. Examples of software programs include but are not limited to QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 O Jones et al. 47 110 119 1991 and RIBBONS Carson 24 958 961 1991 which are incorporated herein by reference. Certain software programs may imbue this representation with physico chemical attributes which are known from the chemical composition of the molecule such as residue charge hydrophobicity torsional and rotational degrees of freedom for the residue or segment etc. Examples of software programs for calculating chemical energies are described below.

The above method may further comprise the following step after step d outputting said quantified association to a suitable output hardware such as a CRT display terminal a CD or DVD recorder ZIP or JAZ drive a disk drive or other machine readable data storage device as described previously. The method may further comprise generating a three dimensional structure graphical representation thereof or both of the molecule or molecular complex prior to step b .

One embodiment of this invention provides for the above method wherein energy minimization molecular dynamics simulations or rigid body minimizations are performed simultaneously with or following step b .

In another embodiment the invention provides for the method of using a computer for selecting an orientation of a chemical entity with a favorable shape complementarity in a binding pocket comprising the steps of 

The method above may further comprise the step of generating a three dimensional graphical representation of the binding pocket and all or part of the ligand bound therein prior to step b .

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for screening a plurality of chemical entities to associate at a deformation energy of binding of less than 7 kcal mol with said binding pocket 

Alternatively the structure coordinates of the JAK3 binding pocket may be utilized in a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor of a molecule or molecular complex comprising a binding pocket of JAK3. This method comprises the steps of 

In one embodiment the invention provides a method of designing a compound or complex that associates with all or part of the binding pocket comprising the steps of 

For the first time the present invention permits the use of molecular design techniques to identify select and design chemical entities including inhibitory compounds capable of binding to JAK3 or JAK3 like binding pockets motifs and domains.

Applicant s elucidation of binding pockets on JAK3 provides the necessary information for designing new chemical entities and compounds that may interact with JAK3 substrate active site in whole or in part.

Throughout this section discussions about the ability of a chemical entity to bind to interact with or inhibit JAK3 binding pockets refer to features of the entity alone.

The design of compounds that bind to or inhibit JAK3 binding pockets according to this invention generally involves consideration of two factors. First the chemical entity must be capable of physically and structurally associating with parts or all of the JAK3 binding pockets. Non covalent molecular interactions important in this association include hydrogen bonding van der Waals interactions hydrophobic interactions and electrostatic interactions.

Second the chemical entity must be able to assume a conformation that allows it to associate with the JAK3 binding pockets directly. Although certain positions of the chemical entity will not directly participate in these associations those portions of the chemical entity may still influence the overall conformation of the molecule. This in turn may have a significant impact on potency. Such conformational requirements include the overall three dimensional structure and orientation of the chemical entity in relation to all or a portion of the binding pocket or the spacing between functional groups of a chemical entity comprising several chemical entities that directly interact with the JAK3 or JAK3 like binding pockets.

The potential inhibitory or binding effect of a chemical entity on JAK3 binding pockets may be analyzed prior to its actual synthesis and testing by the use of computer modeling techniques. If the theoretical structure of the given entity suggests insufficient interaction and association between it and the JAK3 binding pockets testing of the entity is obviated. However if computer modeling indicates a strong interaction the molecule may then be synthesized and tested for its ability to bind to a JAK3 binding pocket. This may be achieved by testing the ability of the molecule to inhibit JAK3 using the assay described in Example 9.

A potential inhibitor of a JAK3 binding pocket may be computationally evaluated by means of a series of steps in which chemical entities or fragments are screened and selected for their ability to associate with the JAK3 binding pockets.

One skilled in the art may use one of several methods to screen chemical entities or fragments or moieties thereof for their ability to associate with the binding pockets described herein. This process may begin by visual inspection of for example any of the binding pockets on the computer screen based on the JAK3 structure coordinates Table 2 or other coordinates which define a similar shape generated from the machine readable storage medium. Selected chemical entities or fragments or moieties thereof may then be positioned in a variety of orientations or docked within that binding pocket as defined supra. Docking may be accomplished using software such as QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 and Sybyl Tripos Associates St. Louis Mo. followed by or performed simultaneously with energy minimization rigid body minimization Gshwend supra and molecular dynamics with standard molecular mechanics force fields such as CHARMM and AMBER.

Specialized computer programs may also assist in the process of selecting fragments or chemical entities. These include 

Once suitable chemical entities or fragments have been selected they can be assembled into single compound or complex. Assembly may be preceded by visual inspection of the relationship of the fragments to each other on the three dimensional image displayed on a computer screen in relation to the structure coordinates of JAK3. This would be followed by manual model building using software such as QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 or Sybyl Tripos Associates St. Louis Mo. .

Useful programs to aid one of skill in the art in connecting the individual chemical entities or fragments include 

Instead of proceeding to build an inhibitor of a JAK3 binding pocket in a step wise fashion one fragment or chemical entity at a time as described above inhibitory or other JAK3 binding compounds may be designed as a whole or de novo using either an empty binding pocket or optionally including some portion s of a known inhibitor s . There are many de novo ligand design methods including 

Other molecular modeling techniques may also be employed in accordance with this invention see e.g. Cohen et al. Molecular Modeling Software and Methods for Medicinal Chemistry 33 883 894 1990 see also Navia M. A. and Murcko M. A. The Use of Structural Information in Drug Design Current Opinions in Structural Biology 2 202 210 1992 Balbes et al. A Perspective of Modern Methods in Computer Aided Drug Design in K. B. Lipkowitz and D. B. Boyd Eds. VCH Publishers New York 5 337 379 1994 see also Guida W. C. Software For Structure Based Drug Design 4 777 781 1994 .

Once a chemical entity has boon designed or selected by the above methods the efficiency with which that entity may bind to any of the above binding pockets may be tested and optimized by computational evaluation. For example an effective binding pocket inhibitor must preferably demonstrate a relatively small difference in energy between its bound and free states i.e. a small deformation energy of binding . Thus the most efficient binding pocket inhibitors should preferably be designed with a deformation energy of binding of not greater than about 10 kcal mole more preferably not greater than 7 kcal mole. Binding pocket inhibitors may interact with the binding pocket in more than one conformation that is similar in overall binding energy. In those cases the deformation energy of binding is taken to be the difference between the energy of the free entity and the average energy of the conformation observed when the inhibitor binds to the protein.

A chemical entity designed or selected as binding to any one of the above binding pocket may be further computationally optimized so that in its bound state it would preferably lack repulsive electrostatic interaction with the target enzyme and with the surrounding water molecules. Such non complementary electrostatic interactions include repulsive charge charge dipole dipole and charge dipole interactions.

Specific computer software is available in the art to evaluate compound deformation energy and electrostatic interactions. Examples of programs designed for such uses include Gaussian 94 revision C M. J. Frisch Gaussian Inc. Pittsburgh Pa. 1995 AMBER version 4.1 P. A. Kollman University of California at San Francisco 1995 QUANT CHARMM Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 Insight II Discover Molecular Simulations Inc. San Diego Calif. 1998 DelPhi Molecular Simulations Inc. San Diego Calif. 1998 and AMSOL Quantum Chemistry Program Exchange Indiana University . These programs may be implemented for instance using a Silicon Graphics workstation such as an Indigo2 with IMPACT graphics. Other hardware systems and software packages will be known to those skilled in the art.

Another approach enabled by this invention is the computational screening of small molecule databases for chemical entities or compounds that can bind in whole or in part to any of the above binding pocket. In this screening the quality of fit of such entities to the binding pocket may be judged either by shape complementarity or by estimated interaction energy Meng et al. 13 505 524 1992 .

Another particularly useful drug design technique enabled by this invention is iterative drug design. Iterative drug design is a method for optimizing associations between a protein and a chemical entity by determining and evaluating the three dimensional structures of successive sets protein chemical entity complexes.

In iterative drug design crystals of a series of protein or protein complexes are obtained and then the three dimensional structures of each crystal is solved. Such an approach provides insight into the associated between the proteins and compounds of each complex. This is accomplished by selecting compounds with inhibitory activity obtaining crystals of this new protein compound complex solving the three dimensional structure of the complex and comparing the associations between the new protein compound complex and previously solved protein compound complexes. By observing how changes in compound affected the protein compound associations these associations may be optimized.

In some cases iterative drug design is carried out by forming successive protein compound complexes and then crystallizing each new complex. High throughput crystallization assays may be used to find a new crystallization condition or to optimize the original protein crystallization condition for the new complex. Alternatively a pre formed protein crystal may be soaked in the presence of an inhibitor thereby forming a protein compound complex and obviating the need to crystallize each individual protein compound complex.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

In another embodiment the binding site of said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or said homologue thereof determined in step d comprises the structure coordinates according to Table 1 of amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 wherein the root mean square deviation from the backbone atoms of said amino acids is not more than 2.0 .

In one embodiment this invention provides for a method of for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the steps of 

In another embodiment the binding site of said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or said homologue thereof determined in step d comprises the structure coordinates according to Table 1 of amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 wherein the root mean square deviation from the backbone atoms of said amino acids is not more than 2.0 .

In another embodiment this invention provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor that interacts with a binding site of a human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or a homologue thereof comprising the step of determining a binding site said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or the homologue thereof from a three dimensional model to design or identify the candidate inhibitor which interacts with said binding site.

In another embodiment the binding site of said human Janus Kinase 3 kinase protein or said homologue thereof determined in step d comprises the structure coordinates according to Table 1 of amino acid residues Gln827 Leu828 Gly829 Lys830 Gly831 Asn 832 Phe833 Gly834 Ser835 Val836 Glu837 Leu838 Val852 Ala853 Val854 Lys855 Gln856 Leu857 Val884 Lys885 Tyr886 Leu900 Val901 Met902 Glu903 Tyr904 Leu905 Pro906 Ser907 Gly908 Cys909 Leu910 Arg911 Asp912 His947 Asp949 Leu950 Ala951 Ala952 Arg953 Asn954 Ile955 Leu956 Val957 Ala966 Asp967 Leu970 Lys978 Glu985 Gln988 Ser989 Pro990 and Trp 993 wherein the root mean square deviation from the backbone atoms of said amino acids is not more than 2.0 .

In one embodiment this invention provides a method for identifying a candidate inhibitor of a molecule or molecular complex comprising a binding pocket or domain selected from the group consisting of 

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of using a crystal of this invention in an inhibitor screening assay comprising 

Any of the above methods may be used to design peptide or small molecule mimics of the a ligand which may have inhibitory effects on full length JAK3 protein or fragments thereof or on full length JAK3 protein which is mutated in or fragments of the mutated protein thereof.

The structure coordinates set forth in Table 2 can also be used in obtaining structural information about other crystallized molecules or molecular complexes. This may be achieved by any of a number of well known techniques including molecular replacement.

According to one embodiment the machine readable data storage medium comprises a data storage material encoded with a first set of machine readable data which comprises the Fourier transform of at least a portion of the structure coordinates set forth in Table 2 or homology model thereof and which when using a machine programmed with instructions for using said data can be combined with a second set of machine readable data comprising the X ray diffraction pattern of a molecule or molecular complex to determine at least a portion of the structure coordinates corresponding to the second set of machine readable data.

In another embodiment the invention provides a computer for determining at least a portion of the structure coordinates corresponding to X ray diffraction data obtained from a molecule or molecular complex having an unknown structure wherein said computer comprises 

For example the Fourier transform of at least a portion of the structure coordinates set forth in Table 2 or homology model thereof may be used to determine at least a portion of the structure coordinates of the molecule or molecular complex.

Therefore in another embodiment this invention provides a method of utilizing molecular replacement to obtain structural information about a molecule or molecular complex of unknown structure wherein the molecule or molecular complex is sufficiently homologous to JAK3 kinase domain comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the methods is performed using a computer. In another embodiment the molecule is selected from the group consisting of JAK3 kinase domain and a JAK3 kinase domain homologue. In another embodiment the molecular complex is a JAK3 kinase domain complex or a JAK3 kinase domain homologue complex.

By using molecular replacement all or part of the structure coordinates of JAK3 as provided by this invention and set forth in Table 2 can be used to determine the structure of a crystallized molecule or molecular complex whose structure is unknown more quickly and efficiently than attempting to determine such information ab initio.

Molecular replacement provides an accurate estimation of the phases for an unknown structure. Phases are a factor in equations used to solve crystal structures that can not be determined directly. Obtaining accurate values for the phases by methods other than molecular replacement is a time consuming process that involves iterative cycles of approximations and refinements and greatly hinders the solution of crystal structures. However when the crystal structure of a protein containing at least a homologous portion has been solved the phases from the known structure may provide a satisfactory estimate of the phases for the unknown structure.

Thus this method involves generating a preliminary model of a molecule or molecular complex whose structure coordinates are unknown by orienting and positioning the relevant portion of JAK3 kinase domain according to Table 2 within the unit cell of the crystal of the unknown molecule or molecular complex so as best to account for the observed X ray diffraction pattern of the crystal of the molecule or molecular complex whose structure is unknown. Phases can then be calculated from this model and combined with the observed X ray diffraction pattern amplitudes to generate an electron density map of the structure whose coordinates are unknown. This in turn can be subjected to any well known model building and structure refinement techniques to provide a final accurate structure of the unknown crystallized molecule or molecular complex E. Lattman Use of the Rotation and Translation Functions in 115 55 77 1985 M. G. Rossmann ed. The Molecular Replacement Method Int. Sci. Rev. Ser. No. 13 Gordon Breach New York 1972 .

The structure of any portion of any crystallized molecule or molecular complex that is sufficiently homologous to any portion of the structure of human JAK3 kinase domain can be resolved by this method.

In one embodiment the method of molecular replacement is utilized to obtain structural information about a JAK3 homologue. The structure coordinates of JAK3 as provided by this invention are particularly useful in solving the structure of JAK3 complexes that are bound by ligands substrates and inhibitors.

Furthermore the structure coordinates of JAK3 kinase domain as provided by this invention are useful in solving the structure of JAK3 kinase domains that have amino acid substitutions additions and or deletions referred to collectively as JAK3 mutants as compared to naturally occurring JAK3 . These JAK3 mutants may optionally be crystallized in co complex with a chemical entity. The crystal structures of a series of such complexes may then be solved by molecular replacement and compared with that of wild type JAK3. Potential sites for modification within the various binding pockets of the enzyme may thus be identified. This information provides an additional tool for determining the most efficient binding interactions for example increased hydrophobic interactions between JAK3 and a chemical entity or compound.

The structure coordinates are also particularly useful in solving the structure of crystals of the kinase domain of JAK3 or homologues co complexes with a variety of chemical entities. This approach enables the determination of the optimal sites for interaction between chemical entities including candidate JAK3 inhibitors. For example high resolution X ray diffraction data collected from crystals exposed to different types of solvent allows the determination of where each type of solvent molecule resides. Small molecules that bind tightly to those sites can then be designed and synthesized and tested for their JAK3 inhibition activity.

All of the complexes referred to above may be studied using well known X ray diffraction techniques and may be refined using 1.5 3.4 resolution X ray data to an R value of about 0.30 or less using computer software such as X PLOR Yale University 1992 distributed by Molecular Simulations Inc. see e.g. Blundell Johnson supra 114 115 H. W. Wyckoff et al. eds. Academic Press 1985 or CNS Brunger et al. 54 905 921 1998 .

In order that this invention be more fully understood the following examples are set forth. These examples are for the purpose of illustration only and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way.

The full length JAK3 cDNA GenBank accession number AAD22741 was obtained by RT PCR from human bone marrow mRNA Clontech . A kinase domain JAK3 A810 E1115 was cloned by PCR from the previously isolated full length JAK3 cDNA. The PCR product of the kinase domain was cloned into the baculoviral transfer vector pBEV10 for insect cell expression. The recombinant virus was plaque purified and amplified to obtain a high titer clonal viral stock. For production High 5 insect cells were grown to 2 10cells ml in Excell 405 medium JRH Bioscience Kans. US and infected with virus at a multiplicity of infection of 2.5 and incubated for 72 96 hours at 27 C.

Using the same procedure above the following kinase domains of human JAK3 were also cloned and expressed amino acid residues 810 1124 amino acid residues 810 1104 and amino acid residues 810 1100.

Frozen cell paste was thawed in 5 volumes of Buffer A 50 mM Hepes at pH 8.0 500 mM NaCl 20 v v glycerol 0.2 v v Tween 20 0.05 v v mM mercaptoethanol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM PMSF 5 g ml leupeptin 3 mM benzamidine and 25 l L Benzonase Novagen Madison Wis. and mechanically lysed in a microfluidizer Microfluidics Newton Mass. . The lysate was centrifuged at 54 000 g for 1 hour and the supernatant incubated with Talon metal affinity resin Clonetech Palo Alto Calif. overnight at 4 C. After extensive washing with 20 column volumes of Buffer A the kinase domain was eluted with Buffer A containing 100 mM imidazole with the pH readjusted to 8.0.

The elution pool was concentrated by ultrafiltration 30 KDa MWCO in an Amicon stirred cell concentrator Millipore Billerica Mass. and loaded onto a HR 16 60 Superdex 200 size exclusion column Amersham Biosciences Uppsala Sweden equilibrated in Buffer B 50 mM Hepes at pH 8.0 500 mM NaCl 20 v v glycerol 5 mM DTT and 0.05 w v octylglucopyranoside . The JAK3 kinase domain was pooled based on SDS PAGE analysis and MgClwas added to give a final concentration of 20 mM MgCl.

The JAK3 kinase domain was loaded onto a phenyl ATP Sepharose column Haystead et al. 214 459 467 1993 pre equilibrated with Buffer C 50 mM Hepes at pH 8.0 20 v v glycerol 0.5 M NaCl 20 mM MgCl 0.05 octylglucopyranoside and 5 mM DTT . After washing with two column volumes of Buffer C JAK3 kinase domain was eluted from the column with 10 mM ADP in Buffer C and the fractions containing JAK3 kinase domain were pooled based on SDS PAGE analysis.

The hexahistidine tag was cleaved by incubating the protein with 4 units ml thrombin Calbiochem La Jolla Calif. at room temperature for two hours. The completion of the cleavage was confirmed by SDS PAGE and thrombin was removed by treating the protein with benzamidine Sepharose 6B Amersham Biosciences Uppsala Sweden for 30 minutes at room temperature.

The buffer was exchanged to Buffer B using a HR 16 60 Superdex 200 size exclusion column Amersham Biosciences Uppsala Sweden . The kinase domain containing fractions were pooled and concentrated to 15 mg ml using a 10 KDa MWCO Vivaspin concentrator Vivascience Hanover Germany in the presence of 2 mM AMP PNP ANP and 4 mM MgCl. Samples were subjected to ultracentrifugation at 90 000 g for 10 minutes prior to freezing for storage at 80 C.

The concentrated protein stored at 80 C. from Example 2 above was thawed on ice and centrifuged in a microcentrifuge for 5 minutes prior to crystallization. The protein 10 15 mg mL in 50 mM Hepes at pH 8.0 500 mM NaCl 20 v v glycerol 5 mM DTT and 0.05 w v octylglucopyranoside was crystallized by the vapor diffusion method in sitting drop or hanging drop plates using 20 26 PEG 3350 as the precipitant 200 260 mM KCl 20 mM spermine 10 mM DTT and 100 mM bis tris pH 6.0. Equal volumes of protein and reservoir solution 0.5 L were used to form drops. Bigger drops would also grow from 1.0 L of protein and 1.0 L of reservoir solution. Crystals usually grew overnight as extremely thin 150 50 

Crystals were grown in the Corning 384 Well plate available from Fisher Scientific Greiner crystallization low profile plates available from Hampton Research Aliso Viejo Calif. both the 96 well CrystalQuick standard profile round and flat bottom plates available from Hampton Research Aliso Viejo Calif. and the 24 well VDX plates available from Hampton Research Aliso Viejo Calif. . The volume of the reservoir for the 384 well plate was 50 L. The volume of the reservoir for the 96 well low profile plate was 100 L and for the CrystalQuick plates it was varied between 70 100 L.

Crystals were obtained for JAK3 protein constructs comprising amino acid residues 810 1100 amino acid residues 810 1104 amino acid residues 810 1115 and amino acid residues 810 1124.

Data was collected from crystals of the protein constructs comprising amino acid residues 810 1115 and 810 1124. The details described below which generated the final data sets used to solve the structure of human JAK3 kinase domain are for the protein construct comprising amino acid residues 810 1115.

Cryosolvent reservoir solution containing 25 glycerol was slowly mixed with the protein drop until no further mixing was observed. The crystals were mounted in nylon loops and flash frozen directly in the nitrogen stream and then stored in liquid nitrogen until the time of data collection. Flash freezing in the nitrogen stream caused less damage to the crystals than freezing directly into liquid nitrogen. The crystals diffracted to greater than 2.1 resolution but the spot shape was distorted at higher than 2.5 resolution and the data suffered from severe anisotropy. Therefore although the crystals diffracted to greater than 2.1 data were only useable to 2.5 .

The data were collected at the beamline 5.0.2 at the Advanced Light Source ALS Berkeley Calif. using 1.0 X rays and an ADSC CCD detector. The data from the crystal were integrated and scaled using d TREK Pflugrath . D55 1718 1725 1999 . Structure factors were calculated using TRUNCATE Bailey . D50 760 763 . Table 1 summarizes data collection.

The crystal belonged to spacegroup P2with unit cell dimensions a 59.98 b 90.19 c 69.00 90 111.5 90 with 2 molecules in the asymmetric unit. A second crystal form that belonged to spacegroup P222with unit cell dimensions a 72.36 b 90.04 c 105.60 90 also formed. The discussions below will be limited to the crystals belonging to the P2spacegroup.

The orientation and position of JAK3 within the asymmetric unit was achieved by molecular replacement using BEAST Read 547 1373 1382 2001 . BEAST uses maximum likelihood targets for the rotation and translation functions and allows the use of multiple models allowing the creation of a statically weighted set of averaged structure factors. The use of BEAST was essential in solving the structure. Protein kinases are very flexible molecules in their inactive state Huse and Kuriyan 109 pp. 275 282 20002 . While conventional molecular replacement methods failed BEAST which uses maximum likelihood targets for the rotation and translation functions allowed the use of multiple models and created from these models a statistically weighted set of averaged structure factors.

Multiple superimposed kinase domains with the activation loop removed were used as the search model Protein Data Bank PDB accession codes 1M17 1LUF 1FVR 1IEP 1JPA 1AGW 1IR3 1QPC and 1GJO . The superposition of the structures was done using the program DeepView Guex and Peitsch 18 2714 2723 . The initial set of structures chosen represented molecules with high sequence homology to JAK3 and were in a variety of conformations. The BEAST rotation function yielded two distinct peaks which were related by the observed non crystallographic symmetric. Of the kinase domains used epidermal grown factor receptor 1M17 had the highest sequence homology to JAK3 therefore EGFR was used as the initial model for rigid body refinement in CNX Accelrys San Diego Calif. .

Initial calculated electron density maps revealed that the C terminal domain was positioned correctly but the N terminal domain was not. In order to find the proper orientation of the N terminal domain several hybrid molecules were created. The C terminal domain of another tyrosine kinase was superimposed onto the C terminal domain of EGFR. The new molecule used for rigid body refinement consisted of the C terminal domain of EGFR and the newly positioned N terminal domain of the other kinase. Of the hybrid kinases created the molecule with the N terminal domain of src kinase PDB accession code 2SRC and the C terminal domain of EGFR yielded an easily interpretable electron density map in both domains.

The position of the ANP ligand could be clearly seen in the initial electron density maps. The structure was refined using CNX Accelrys San Diego Calif. . Initial rigid body refinement of the hybrid Src EGFR kinase domain was followed by mutation of the necessary side chains in order to reflect the human JAK3 sequence and proper placement of those side chains into the initial electron density maps. Subsequent refinement consisted of rounds of energy minimization simulated annealing and B factor refinement using NCS restraints which were alternated with manual rebuilding of the structure in QUANTA Accelrys San Diego Calif. 2001 2002 .

Table 1 summarizes refinement statistics. Poor electron density was observed for the extreme N terminus of the molecule residues 810 812 and no electron density was observed for the extreme C terminus residues 1102 1115 . A glycerol molecule was modeled into unaccounted electron density near the surface of the molecule. The final refined structure model includes human JAK3 kinase amino acid residues 813 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1.

The asymmetric unit contains two molecules of human JAK3 labeled as mol A and B in . The overall RMSD for 288 C atoms between the two structures is 0.20 and the overall RMSSD for 1152 backbone atoms is 0.23 . Throughout the refinement non crystallographic restraints were used. The largest area of difference between the two molecules is the activation loop. If Molecule B is the fixed molecule and Molecule A is the moving molecule then the relationship between A and B is the following 

The overall R factor and Rof the final model were 24.5 and 31.1 respectively. The test set was composed of 7.9 of the total reflections.

Table 2 lists the atomic structure coordinates in Protein Data Bank PDB like format and header for human JAK3 in complex with AMP PNP JAK3 AMP PNP complex as derived by X ray diffraction from a crystal of the complex. The structure model includes human JAK3 kinase amino acid residues 813 1100 of SEQ ID NO 1 .

 Atom type refers to the element whose coordinates are measured. The first letter in the column defines the element.

 Occ is an occupancy factor that refers to the fraction of the molecules in which each atom occupies the position specified by the coordinates. A value of 1 indicates that each atom has the same conformation i.e. the same position in the molecules.

 Mol refers to a molecule in the asymmetric unit. Mol A and Mol B are JAK3 protein molecules. Mol Y and Mol Z are AMP PNP. Mol Y and Mol Z binds to Mol A and Mol B of JAK3 protein respectively. Mol W is water.

The JAK3 C terminal domain region between F and G contains a total of three structural insertions when compared to other tyrosine kinases. The first insertion I1 is between amino acid residues 1024 and 1029. Here the chain juts out away from the C terminal domain as compared to that of other tyrosine kinases. The structure briefly returns to register with other tyrosine kinases at P1030. The second structural insertion is the short FG helix 1030 1038 . In the FG helix the side chain of amino acid residue F1034 is in the approximate position of the phenyl ring of a conserved tyrosine found in other tyrosine kinases. The final insertion I3 amino acid residues 1039 1046 like I1 extends away from The C terminal domain.

Comparison of the JAK3 with other protein kinases reveals that the overall orientation of the N and C terminal domains is related to that of the Src 2 structure Xu et al. 3 pp. 629 638 1999 . The root mean square deviation between Src 2 and JAK3 using 260 equivalent C positions is 3.4 . Both structures are in an inactive conformation. Like Src 2 and the unactivated CDK2 ATP structure Schulze Gahmen et al. 39 pp. 4540 4546 1996 the position of the C helix results in a nonproductive alignment of the AMP PNP phosphate groups. The major difference in the overall architecture of the JAK3 structure and the structures of the inactive forms of Src 2 and CDK2 ATP is the FG helix region and the conformation of the activation loop. In addition CDK2 is a Serine Threonine kinase not a Tyrosine kinase as are Src 2 and JAK3 and as such it has a large insertion region between the G and H helices.

While the N terminus of the activation loop of JAK3 is similar to that of Src 2 structure the C terminus of the activation loop is kinked similar to the activation loops of the FGF 1 receptor ACP and CDK2 ATP complex structures. This kink effectively blocks the peptide substrate site. In the FGF 1 receptor although the C terminus of the activation loop is kinked the overall structure is in a more open conformation and the activation loop does not reach the glycine rich loop. However in the unactivated CDK2 ATP structure the activation loops does interact with the glycine rich loop Schulze Gahmen et al. 39 pp. 4540 4546 1996 . In JAK3 N832 of the glycine rich loop makes two hydrogen bonds to the activation loop. The main chain carbonyl group is hydrogen bonded to the N group of K978 and the N of the side chain is hydrogen bonded to the main chain carbonyl group of E988. The interaction network also includes the phosphate of the ATP analogue.

The active site which contains the non hydrolyzable ATP analogue AMP PNP is formed by a groove at the interface between the N and C terminal lobes. The hinge region the glycine rich loop residues 829 834 and the activation loop residues 967 990 enclose the ligand. The NH2 of the purine ring is hydrogen bonded to the backbone oxygen of Glu 903 . The phosphates of the AMP PNP participate in an extensive hydrogen bonding network that includes both the activation and glycine rich loops .

The orientation of the N and C terminal lobes of Jak3 KD1 structure is most similar to that of the unactivated Src kinase Xu W. Doshi A. Lei M. Eck M. J. and Harrison S. C. 1999 3 629 638 Cdk 2 Schulze Gahmen U. Brandsen J. Jones H. D. Morgan D. O. Meijer L. Vesely J. and Kim S. H. 1995 22 378 391 and the recently solved structures of Mek1 and Mek2 Ohren J. F. Chen H. Pavlovsky A. Whitehead C. Zhang E. Kuffa P. Yan C. McConnell P. Spessard C. Banotai C. Mueller W. T. Delaney A. Omer C. Sebolt Leopold J. Dudley D. T. Leung I. K. Flamme C. Warmus J. Kaufman M. Barrett S. Tecle H. and Hasemann C. A. 2004 11 1192 1197 . The root mean square deviation r.m.s.d. between Jak3 and the Src 2 Cdk 2 Mek 1 and Mek 2 structures is 1.15 using 215 equivalent C positions 1.36 using 186 equivalent C positions 1.56 using 190 equivalent C positions and 1.63 using 191 equivalent C positions respectively. As in the previously mentioned structures the C helix which contains the conserved glutamic acid Glu 871 is swung out away from the active site preventing the formation of the salt bridge between Glu 871 and the conserved catalytic lysine Lys 855 which in activated kinases coordinates the and phosphates of the ATP. Instead Lys 855 is hydrogen bonded to the phosphate of the AMP PNP and the aspartic acid Asp 967 at the beginning of the activation loop. The conformation of the AMP PNP the coordination of the Mg ion and the interaction with the catalytic lysine Lys 855 are all very similar to that seen in the inactive Cdk 2 ATP Schulze Gahmen U. De Bondt H. L. and Kim S. H. 1996 39 4540 4546 and Src 2 structures Xu W. Doshi A. Lei M. Eck M. J. and Harrison S. C. 1999 3 629 638 .

The beginning of the activation loop containing the conserved DFG sequence residues 967 968 is almost identical in conformation to that in the Src 2 and unactivated Cdk 2 structures. However the Jak3 KD1 activation loop notably diverges from the previously mentioned structures Src 2 and Cdk 2 as it kinks toward the glycine rich loop. Superposition of Jak3 on insulin receptor kinase with a bound peptide substrate PDB IIR3 clearly showed the kink in the activation loop residues 978 989 blocks the protein substrate binding site similar to that seen in unactivated Cdk 2 PDB 1HCK Schulze Gahmen U. De Bondt H. L. and Kim S. H. 1996 39 4540 4546 and fibroblast growth factor receptor kinase PDB 1FGK Mohammadi M. Schlessinger J. and Hubbard S. R. 1996 86 577 587 . This region of the activation loop includes the potential autophosphorylation tyrosines Tyr 980 and Tyr 981.

Regulation of the catalytic domain of Janus kinases takes place through interactions with domains N terminal to the kinase domain. Both the pseudokinase domain and the FERM domain play pivotal roles in controlling activity of the catalytic domain. Furthermore it has been shown that both of these domains can interact with the kinase domain. Previous studies in JAK3 have focused on naturally occurring mutations in the FERM domain and pseudokinase domain that have been found in SCID patients. Unique region around FG is a possible site for interaction with the other JAK3 domains.

Some known SCID mutations affect the kinase domain. There are two known SCID mutations that prematurely terminate the kinase domain. These premature stops remove the FG 1 helices. These prematurely terminated kinases probably result in an unstable kinase domain which may be rapidly degraded in cells. This would explain the undetectable levels of protein expressed in cells containing these mutations. The only naturally occurring point mutation in the catalytic domain resulting in SCID known is the mutation of a leucine at position 910 L910 to serine. L910 occurs at the beginning of the D helix. The side chain of L910 contributes to the hydrophobic core of the C terminal domain. This residue is only five residues away from L905 which is involved in positioning the purine ring of the ATP substrate and one residue away from R911 R918 have been implicated in binding the peptide substrate at the P 1 P 2 and P 3 positions. The replacement of a highly conserved hydrophobic residue leucine with a polar residue serine may result in the disruption or distortion of the D helix which may affect the binding of either the ATP substrate and or the peptide substrate.

The invention between F and G appears to be a unique feature of the JAK family when compared to the same region in other receptor and non receptor tyrosine kinases. This insertion structurally encompasses a rather large region on the surface of the kinase domain as compared to other kinases such as c scr. The FG insertion region creates a large potential binding surface for recognition by another domain of the JAK kinases specifically the N terminal FERM domain or the pseudokinase domain or perhaps another protein. In fact it has been suggested that messages in other domains affect the function of the kinase domain. This region may be docking site for either another domain within the JAK kinase or for an exogenous protein substrate.

To each well of a 96 well polycarbonate plate is added 1.5 L of a candidate JAK3 inhibitor along with 50 L of kinase buffer 100 mM Hepes at pH 7.4 1 mM DTT 10 mM MgCl 25 mM NaCl and 0.01 BSA containing 2 uM poly Glu Tyr and 10 M ATP. This is then mixed and 50 L of kinase buffer containing 2 nM JAK3 enzyme is added to start the reaction. After 20 minutes at room temperature 25 C. the reaction is stopped with 50 L of 20 trichloroacetic acid TCA that also contains 0.4 mM ATP. The entire contents of each well is then transferred to a 96 well glass fiber filter plate using a TomTek Cell Harvester. After washing 60 L of scintillation fluid is added and P incorporated is detected on a Perkin Elmer TopCount instrument.

JAK2 activity can be assayed as above except that final poly Glu Tyr concentration is 15 M and final ATP concentration is 12 M.

While we have described a number of embodiments of this invention it is apparent that our basic constructions may be altered to provide other embodiments which utilize the products processes and methods of this invention.

