---

title: User based parental controls
abstract: User-based parental controls (UBPC) are provided. UBPC are provided to users according to a user profile associated with a specific user. Parental controls may be tailored to meet a parental control need according to each user. User profiles may be created by one or more administrative users and may include restrictions according to a TV, movie, application, or game rating system, specific channels, or specific programs. User profiles may be stored in a remote database allowing for various media content receiving and/or viewing devices to access the user profiles for applying parental control features according to a specific user profile. A user profile may be altered by one or more administrative users who may create an override access code which may allow the administrative user to manage other users' parental controls.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043826&OS=09043826&RS=09043826
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09043826
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121019
---
Many video content providers provide a wide array of parental controls that allow parents to control who watches or purchases certain television programs. These parental controls may be required to be set up individually on each receiver and have a simple on or off setting. While these parental controls may provide for restricting content it may be counterproductive to parents who want unrestricted access when they watch television. For example when a parent who wants unrestricted access to content attempts to access media content that is blocked by a parental control set up he may be prompted for a password or personal identification number PIN to be entered to access the media content. Because of this hindrance many parents may choose not to set up parental controls in the interest of convenience.

Embodiments of the present invention provide user based parental controls. According to one embodiment a user based parental control system may implement parental controls unique to each user set up through a sign in user interface. For example a user may set up a personalized user profile to sign in to access content. This content may contain restrictions due to parental controls implemented to the specific user profile.

According to another embodiment primary users may select personalized parental controls to be applied to different users. These parental controls may have customized restrictions including but not limited to an age of a child television ratings e.g. TV 14 or other content restrictions. Another embodiment allows for the restriction of purchase programs where only authorized users may make purchases.

According to another embodiment powering off the device may automatically log out a parental control user. Accordingly a next time the device is used another log in may be required.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing user based parental controls. A user profile may be created for a user and parental control options may be displayed in order to provide unique parental controls for the user. The user may be asked to sign in before accessing content by selecting a user profile and entering a corresponding alphanumeric password.

Embodiments provide for a selection of one or more parental control options customized to a specific user profile. For example a parental control option may include but is not limited to a restriction of access to content based on a TV rating system e.g. TVY TVPG TV 14 or a movie rating system e.g. PG PG 13 R . Embodiments also allow for specific restrictions based on received information to restrict specific channels or programs from being accessed by a specific user. For example embodiments provide for allowing a parent to block a specific program on a channel and not the channel as a whole. Another embodiment may allow for a parental control option to restrict access to purchase content such as On Demand movies or pay per view content.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Many service providers and media content receiving devices provide a feature referred to as parental control A E for allowing a user such as a parent herein referred to as an administrative user to block certain types of content i.e. content restrictions from being viewed. As illustrated parental control features A E in existing systems may be programmed into a media content receiving and or viewing device . In an example of a set top box STB an administrative user may program certain channels into the STB to be blocked. The administrative user may then enter an access code to prevent alteration of a blocked channel list by users not possessing the access code. To access a blocked channel or to reprogram the blocked channel list a user A D may be required to enter the correct access code. As can be appreciated being required to enter an access code each time a user A D wishes to access restricted content may be frustrating or annoying to the user.

The present invention and embodiments thereof offer an improved parental control system based on user profiles A D. Referring now to a user based parental control system is illustrated and may include a user based parental control application for providing user based parental controls. Although illustrated as a remote application the user based parental control application may be stored locally on media content receiving and or viewing devices . Embodiments provide parental controls A D collectively to users A D collectively according to a user profile A D collectively associated with a specific user . As should be appreciated although illustrated as including four parental controls A D users A D and user profiles A D the number of parental controls users and user profiles illustrated in are for purposes of illustration only embodiments are not limited to providing user based parental controls to a set number of users or to receiving and storing a set number of user profiles but may include varying numbers of parental controls users and user profiles .

Parental controls A D may be tailored to meet a parental control need according to each user A D. For example and as illustrated an administrative user A B such as a parent may have less restrictive parental controls A B associated with his her user profile A B than other users C D such as children. User profiles A D may be created by one or more administrative users A B and may include an access code and restrictions according to a TV rating system e.g. TVY TVPG TV 14 a movie rating system e.g. PG PG 13 R specific channels specific programs movies games applications or other types of media content restrictions to purchase media content or other types of restrictions e.g. Internet content restrictions etc. . User profiles A D may be created for any user A D of a media content receiving and or viewing device . As illustrated user profiles A D may be stored in a remote database allowing for various media content receiving and or viewing devices to access the user profiles A D for applying parental control features A D according to a specific user profile A D. A user profile A D may be altered by one or more administrative users A B who may create an override PIN or access code which may allow the administrative user A B to manage other users C D parental controls C D. According to an embodiment an access code associated with a user profile may be cached or stored within a media content receiving and or viewing devices or within an application. As discussed above with respect to current parental control systems being required to enter an access code each time a user A D wishes to access restricted content may be frustrating or annoying to the user. Embodiments may overcome limitations of current parental control systems by providing a user A D with unrestricted access to allowable content i.e. media content not blocked by user profile A D restrictions once the user A D enters his access code.

Having described an architecture of a user based parental control system is a flow chart of a method for providing user based parental controls A D according to an embodiment. For purposes of illustration the process flow of method will be described with reference to . The method starts at OPERATION and proceeds to OPERATION where an indication of a selection to add a user profile A D is received. According to embodiments and as illustrated in an indication to add a user profile A D may be received via various methods for example a selection of a new user profile user interface control displayed on a screen of a media content viewing device such as a television . As should be appreciated although illustrated as displayed on a screen of a television a new user profile user interface control may be displayed on a screen of other types of media content viewing devices such as but not limited to a computing device a mobile communication device or a tablet computing device . According to one embodiment a new user profile user interface control may be provided in a settings menu as illustrated in . Other embodiments may include providing a new user profile user interface control may be provided in other menus in a guide or in response to receiving a selection of a specific input e.g. selection of a parental control button via a remote control device or other type of input device.

With reference back to upon receiving an indication of a selection to add a user profile the method may proceed to OPERATION where a new user profile user interface may be provided and then may proceed to OPERATION where new user profile data including an access code and restriction information may be received. According to embodiments and as illustrated in a new user profile user interface may include various fields for inputting information associated with a new user profile for a user . The new user profile user interface may comprise one or more or a combination of a user name field for inputting a user name for the user an access code field for inputting an access code required to be entered by a user to access media content allowed by his her user profile and one or more restriction fields which may include fields for selecting a highest allowable level of a rating restriction option for a category of media content for selecting a lowest restricted level of a rating restriction option for a category of media content or for selecting an individual rating restriction option for a media content category. Restriction information may include a restricted time period to access media content . For example an administrative user A B may wish to restrict a user s C D access to media content during a certain time of the day e.g. 9 00 PM 6 00 AM .

The example new user profile user interface illustrated in shows restriction fields for selecting rating restriction options for categories of allowable content. The user interface illustrated in is but one example of various types of user interfaces that may be utilized to enter or select rating restriction options. Categories of allowable content may include but are not limited to movies TV shows music applications purchases pay per view content specific channels and specific programs. A movie rating restriction option field may be provided and may include a plurality of movie rating options e.g. G PG PG 13 R NC 17 NR from which to select a highest allowable rating. For example if an administrative user A B selects a movie rating option of PG 13 the user C D for whom the new user profile C D is being created may only be able to access movies media content with a rating of PG 13 PG or G. Although not shown a sub ratings option field may be provided and may include a plurality of movie sub ratings e.g. FV D L S V etc. from which to select sub ratings to allow or disallow. According to embodiments movie restriction options may be presented such that each rating may be selected as allowed or disallowed individually. For example restriction options may be provided wherein an administrative user A B may restrict a user C D from accessing PG13 movies but allow the user C D to access R movies.

A TV show rating restriction option field may be provided and may include a plurality of TV rating options e.g. TV Y TV Y7 TV G TV PG TV 14 TV MA NR from which to select a highest allowable rating. For example if an administrative user A B selects a TV rating option of TV Y7 the user C D for whom the new user profile C D is being created may only be able to access television programming media content with a rating of TV Y7 or TV Y. Although not shown a sub ratings option field may be provided and may include a plurality of television sub ratings e.g. FV D L S V etc. from which to select sub ratings to allow or disallow. According to embodiments television restriction options may be presented such that each rating may be selected as allowed or disallowed individually. For example restriction options may be provided wherein an administrative user A B may restrict a user C D from accessing TV PG and TV MA shows but allow the user C D to access TV Y TV Y7 TV G and TV 14 shows.

A music rating restriction option field may be provided and may include selections to allow or disallow music with explicit lyrics. For example if an administrative user A B selects explicit on the user C D for whom the new user profile C D is being created may be allowed to access all types of music content media content including music content with explicit lyrics. Music content may also include podcasts.

An applications rating restriction option field may be provided and may include a plurality of application rating options e.g. EC E E10 T M17 A18 from which to select a highest allowable application rating. For example if an administrative user A B selects an application rating option of T the user C D for whom the new user profile C D is being created may only be able to access applications media content with a rating of T E10 E or EC. According to embodiments application restriction options may be presented such that each rating may be selected as allowed or disallowed individually. For example restriction options may be provided wherein an administrative user A B may restrict a user C D from accessing E10 and A18 applications but allow the user C D to access T and M17 applications. An application purchases field may be provided for allowing an administrative user A B to allow or disallow purchases of applications media content to be made.

A pay per view restriction option field may be provided and may include selections to allow or disallow purchasing pay per view content media content . For example if an administrative user A B selects no purchases the user C D for whom the new user profile C D is being created may not be allowed to purchase pay per view content. As mentioned above other categories of allowable or restricted content may be included for example a category to select specific channels specific programs specific actors specific music performers specific comedians specific events e.g. PPV concerts adult programming specific sporting events etc. etc. to allow or restrict.

Referring again to the method proceeds to OPERATION where new user profile data received via the new user profile user interface is stored. According to embodiments user profile data may be stored in a database . According to embodiments the database may be a remote database that may be called by a head end server . Because user profile data is stored centrally in a remote database the user profile data may be available across all media content receiving and or viewing devices with a connection to the database . According to embodiments and as described above an access code may be cached stored within one or more media content receiving and or viewing devices or within an application.

The method may proceed to OPERATION where an indication of a possible new user is received. According to an embodiment an indication of a possible new user may include an indication of a powering on of a media content receiving and or viewing device . According to another embodiment an indication of a possible new user may include receiving an indication of activity following a predetermined amount of time of inactivity. According to another embodiment an indication of a possible new user may include receiving an indication of a selection of a user interface control such as a switch user user interface control.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where a user sign in user interface UI is provided. The user sign in UI may be displayed on displayed on a screen of a media content viewing device such as a television . As should be appreciated although illustrated as displayed on a screen of a television a user sign in UI may be displayed on a screen of other types of media content viewing devices such as but not limited to a computing device a mobile communication device or a tablet computing device . As illustrated in the user sign in UI may include an access code field for inputting an access code associated with a user profile . According to one embodiment an on screen keyboard may be provided for selecting a combination of letters numbers and or symbols. According to an embodiment and as illustrated in a user may be required to select or enter a username prior to entering the access code.

Referring back to the method proceeds to OPERATION where user sign in information is received. As stated above user sign in information may include receiving a selection or input of a username and or an input of an access code associated with a user profile .

After receiving user sign in information the method proceeds to DECISION OPERATION where a determination is made whether the received user sign in information matches a username and or access code of a user profile . According to embodiments if a media content receiving viewing device with which a user is using is connected to a network and can access the database the user sign in information may be compared with user profile data stored in the database . If the receiving viewing device is not connected to a network and cannot access the database the user sign in information may be compared with access codes cached stored within the device or in an application. For example if a user is using a tablet computing device that is not connected to the Internet or other network and the user wants to access stored media content e.g. a movie game application etc. stored on the device the access code cached stored within the device or in application on the device may be active to access the media content .

If a match is not found according to one embodiment the method may repeat to OPERATION where the user sign in UI may be redisplayed on the screen of the media content viewing device . According to another embodiment the method may proceeds to OPERATION where restricted access to media content may be provided. For example restricted access to media content may include applying restrictions according to a highest restricted user profile associated with a service account. Restricted access to media content may also include restricting any purchases of pay per view content applications games etc.

If at DECISION OPERATION a match is found the method may proceed to OPERATION where access to media content according to restriction information associated with the matched user profile is provided. According to one embodiment restricted media content may be omitted from the program guide. According to another embodiment restricted media content may be displayed in a program guide but may not be selectable.

Override features may be provided. For example if a user s C D user profile C D includes a movie rating option of PG 13 but an administrative user A B wants to allow the user C D to access R rated movie content media content the administrative user A B may enter a predetermined access code to allow access to restricted content. The method ends at OPERATION .

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules .

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. According to one embodiment the user based parental control application may be stored locally on computing device . Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause a user based parental control application to provide user based parental controls as described above with reference to .

For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users for example the user based parental control application . The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to one embodiment the user based parental control application may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or WIFI based positioning system to determine a device s location.

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer smart phone etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to embodiments client application may include the user based parental control application described herein.

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to . For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

