---

title: Serial redirector device and associated methods
abstract: Systems and methods for a serial redirector device to provide services using serial communication redirection through a packet-based interface. In one implementation, the serial redirector device is configured to receive messages via a packet-based interface and redirect the same to a device in serial communication with the serial redirector device. The serial redirector mediates the communication between serially connected devices and devices connected via packet-based interfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08804717&OS=08804717&RS=08804717
owner: Nomadix, Inc.
number: 08804717
owner_city: Agoura Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120525
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 491 022 entitled SERIAL REDIRECTOR DEVICE AND ASSOCIATED METHODS filed May 27 2011 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to a serial redirector device and more particularly to a serial redirector device configured to intelligently redirect communications between a serial interface and a packet based interface.

In order to connect the computer of a user subscriber to one or more networks or other online services a variety of gateway devices have been developed. For example one advantageous gateway device is described by U.S. Pat. No. 6 130 892 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The gateway device can serve as a gateway to the Internet an enterprise network on line services or other networks. In addition to serving as a gateway the gateway device can automatically adapt to the protocols and other parameters utilized by the host computer in order that the host computer can communicate with the network in a manner that is transparent both to the user subscriber and the network. Once appropriately connected to the gateway device the computer can communicate via the network such as the network at a hotel at home at an airport or any other location in order to access other networks such as the enterprise network or other online services such as the Internet. In this fashion the gateway device is capable of providing network access and network maintenance to the user subscriber and the network operator. Accordingly gateway devices can communicate with a variety of external devices.

In view of the variety of devices that can be connected with the gateway device and the variety of communication links that can be used improvements to the gateway device are desirable.

Details of implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth herein. Other features aspects and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In one aspect of the disclosure a method of providing services is provided. The method can be performed at a serial redirector which is in communication with a serially connected peer and a second peer connected via a packet based interface. The method can include receiving a message from a second peer destined for the serially connected peer via a network communication interface. The method can further include processing the message where processing the message includes preparing the message for serial transmission. The method can further include transmitting the processed message to the serially connected peer via a serial communication interface.

In another aspect a method of providing services is provided. The method can be performed at a gateway device configured to provide users with network access or a stand alone serial redirector device. The device can be in communication with a billing and content server and with a hotel property management system. In an embodiment the device can receive a message from the billing and content server destined for the hotel property management system for a network communication interface. The device can further process the message by preparing the message for serial transmission. The device can further include transmit the processed message to the hotel property management system via a serial communication interface.

In yet another aspect a method of providing services is provided. The method can be performed at a serial redirector device or gateway device configured to provide users with network access. The device can be in communication with a billing and content server and with a hotel property management system. The method can include receiving a message from the hotel property management system destined for the billing and content server for via a serial communication interface. The method can further include processing the message wherein processing the message includes preparing the message for network transmission. The method can further include transmitting the processed message to billing and content server via a network communication interface.

As discussed above communications with external devices can be limited due to the particular transport the external devices are configured to use for transmitting and receiving information. Serial redirectors provide a capability to redirect application data between two peers where the first peer has a serial e.g. RS232 interface and the second peer has a packet based interface including for example an ISO OSI inspired communication stack e.g. TCP UDP SCTP over IP . In some implementations the packet based interface can be a packet switched interface. In some implementations such as those featuring an n tier architecture a large number of serial redirectors can be connected to a relatively small number of centrally located second peers. While this deployment has the benefit of centralizing control of higher level tiers e.g. presentation application where the first peer connects using a serial redirector each peer maintains its own connection with the second peer. Accordingly the second peer concurrently manages potentially thousands of concurrent connections at least one per first peer. Furthermore the first peers can not all be actively using the communication channel. Thus the second peer expends system resources maintaining connections to numerous idle serial directors. This can introduce complexity and or unnecessary cost to the system. In addition the nature of communication via serial redirectors precludes the second peer from being virtually hosted which can raise operating costs of the system. Still further as companies begin hosting second peer applications with computing vendors e.g. cloud computing certain vendors restrict the communication channels accessible by clients. For example Google may have a policy forbidding an application to open raw TCP IP sockets to or from applications it hosts. Additionally both the first and second peers can need to use custom network configurations e.g. TCP port numbers to communicate serially. These custom network configurations can result in the communications being blocked by firewalls or other network security components. In this situation the network can need to be specially configured to enable communication between the first and second peers.

The present disclosure describes a serial redirector system. As used herein the term serial redirector generally refers to a device that serves as an intelligent bridge between an interface such as a serial interface and a packet based interface for managing the transmissions from the packet based interface to the serial interface and from the serial interface to the packet based interface. A serial redirector can be a standalone device. A serial redirector can also be included in other devices such as a gateway device. This approach can significantly simplify the implementation of communication related aspects of the second peer improve scalability of the second peer and decrease operating costs.

In the first peers communicate with a gateway device . The gateway device is coupled with a network . The gateway device can communicate via the network with one or more second peers . In the example shown in the second peers include a hosted application e.g. web application a computing device e.g. PC tablet computer laptop computer a mobile device e.g. smartphone personal digital assistant a second network e.g. LAN WAN Internet VPN and a billing and content server . Second peers and are provided as alternative examples and can be present or absent from specific implementations as well as configured similarly or differently. Also in the example shown in one instance of each second peer is shown however multiple instances of one or more second peer devices can be included without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure.

According to the arrangement shown in the first peers are configured to communicate with one or more second peers by transmitting data to the gateway device which in turn is configured to transmit corresponding data to the second peers . In the implementation shown a serial redirector is included in the gateway device to mediate the transmission between the first peers and the second peers .

The second peers can also communicate with one or more first peers in a similar fashion. The second peers are configured to transmit data to the gateway device identifying a target first peer . For example in a property management system the second peer can be a centralized reservation system and the first peer can be the reservation application at a specific hotel property. In this example the second peer can determine the appropriate gateway device for the specific hotel property and is configured to transmit a request to the selected gateway device . The gateway device is configured to transmit corresponding data to the destination first peer in communication with this gateway device . For example the gateway device can determine the destination first peer based at least in part on the message received. A transmission pattern will be described further below in reference to .

Determining the destination first peer can be accomplished through techniques such as a first peer identifier in the message or where the gateway device is configured to redirect message types or messages matching certain regular expressions to specific first peers. In an implementation the resolution of which first peer should receive a message can be performed by a device other than the gateway device . In this implementation the gateway device is configured to generate a datagram including information needed to determine the first peer based at least in part on the received message. The gateway device is configured to transmit this datagram to a lookup service. The gateway device then receives a message identifying the appropriate destination first peer for the message.

For ease of discussion the gateway device is described as a single device. However the gateway device can be a distributed collection of modules implementing various features of the gateway device described. Furthermore the gateway device is described as being associated with a site and first peers at the site. However it will be appreciated that a gateway device is configured to service traffic to and from multiple sites and by extension multiple first peers at the multiple sites.

In an implementation of the system the gateway device can be similar to that described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 130 892 or U.S. Pat. No. 7 554 995 collectively referred to hereinafter as the Gateway Device References the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Briefly the gateway device facilitates transparent computer access to the online services or networks such that devices can access networks via the gateway device regardless of their network configurations. The gateway device can include a subscriber interface that can adapt to the computer of a user to facilitate communication between the computer and a network or other online service without requiring the computer to be reconfigured. In this regard the subscriber interface of the gateway device has the ability to recognize computers attempting to access a network the location of computers attempting to access a network the identity of users attempting to gain network access and additional attributes as discussed for example in the Gateway Device References.

For example gateway devices can communicate with billing and content servers which can present customizable billing options and content pages for subscribers of the gateway device. With respect to content billing and content servers can present different log on screens and pricing to a subscriber based upon one or more attributes associated with the subscriber. For example a billing and content server can present different log on screens and pricing based upon the location from which the subscriber accesses the network. In this regard a subscriber in a suite can be presented with a different log on screen and pricing options than a subscriber in a regular room or a conference room. Additionally billing and content servers present subscribers with customized web content based upon one or more attributes associated with the subscriber. By way of example a billing and content server can customize the web content based upon the location from which the subscriber accesses the network. In this respect different fire escape route maps are presented to the subscriber based upon the room location from which the subscriber accesses the network. Additionally guests in suites can have access to different web content than subscribers residing in a standard room.

With respect to billing billing and content servers can interface with a payment authorization server such as a credit card authorization server or electronic payment service e.g. PayPal to payment information and authorization regarding the various subscribers. Depending upon the billing arrangement of a particular subscriber the billing and content server can communicate directly with the payment authorization service to appropriately charge the subscriber s account for the various services that the subscriber accesses via the gateway device. In an implementation the billing and content server can communicate via the gateway device with a network management system such as the property management system of a hotel to appropriately charge the subscriber s account for the various services that the subscriber accesses via the gateway device.

Billing and content servers can perform other functions such as distributing email based upon mailing lists configured according to subscriber specific information. Billing and content servers can maintain and update membership records such as frequent users clubs or frequent visitors clubs.

As briefly mentioned above gateway devices can communicate with a network management system such as the property management system maintained by a hotel or the like. The functions performed by a network management system can vary based at least in part upon the installation or application. For example hotel property management systems automate operations such as room reservations room assignments guest check in guest check out or other front desk activities. Furthermore hotel property management systems maintain a log of telephone calls and telephone charges for each guest room and can be in communication with the Internet to facilitate on line reservations. As described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 636 894 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 868 399 gateway devices communicate with network management systems such as in instances in which the subscriber s access to various networks or on line services is to be charged to their account that can be administered by the network management system. The contents U.S. Pat. No. 6 636 894 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 868 399 are incorporated herein by reference.

In some implementations upon requesting access to a particular computer system or on line service the gateway device determines if the subscriber is entitled to access the computer system the level of access and or the type of services to which the subscriber is entitled. In an implementation the system includes an Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA procedure that is described by U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 458 602 entitled Systems and Methods for Authorizing Authenticating and Accounting Users Having Transparent Computer Access to a Network Using a Gateway Device filed Dec. 8 1999 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 194 554 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. An AAA server can include a database of subscriber records. The AAA Server and or included database can be remote to the gateway device or can be incorporated into the physical embodiment housing the gateway device. As such in instances in which the AAA server and or database are remote to the gateway device the gateway device can frequently communicate with the AAA server and or database. In addition to the external devices described above with which the gateway device can communicate gateway devices can also communicate with a wide variety of other external devices e.g. computing devices mobile devices networked appliances displays tablet computers smartphones .

As illustrated in the system shown includes an access controller coupled with and between the first peers and the gateway device . The access controller is configured to multiplex the signals received from the plurality of computers onto a link to the gateway device . Depending upon the medium by which the first peers are coupled with the access controller the access controller is configured to operate in different modes. For example the access controller can be a digital subscriber line access multiplexer DSLAM for signals transmitted via regular telephone lines a cable head end e.g. Cable Modem Termination Shelf CMTS for signals transmitted via coaxial cables a wireless access point WAP for signals transmitted via a wireless network an optical line terminator OLT a switch or the like.

The system can include one or more routers and or servers not shown in . These elements are configured to control or direct traffic to and from a plurality of first peers or second peers . While the system shown in includes one router the system can include a plurality of routers switches bridges or the like. In an implementation these network components are arranged in a hierarchical fashion. These network components are configured to route traffic to and from the first peers and or second peers . In an implementation including routers the gateway device establishes a link with one or more routers rather than directly communicating with the network . The routers in turn establish links via the network to the servers of the second peers . It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that one or more devices illustrated in can be combinable. For example although not shown the router can be located entirely within the gateway device . Furthermore additional elements can be included in the computer system such as elements disclosed in the Gateway Device References or other networked elements.

As described above the gateway device is configured to communicate with a variety of external devices. For example gateway devices can communicate with billing and or content servers. Billing and content servers present customized billing options and content pages for every subscriber of a gateway device . As such gateway devices must communicate on a frequent basis with the billing and content server.

In an embodiment where multiple second peers transmit data for the same first peer the serial redirector needs to manage the communication sessions to ensure the messages are properly routed and exchanged. This is because serial devices expect to only communicate with a single other device and are not equipped to handle multiple different peers. For example in a situation where a second peer transmits a request to a first peer property management system requesting the status of a particular room while a subsequent message from another second peer transmits a request intended for the same first peer. The serial redirector can accept both messages and intelligently manage the transactions on behalf of the second peers. In an embodiment where the requests are distinguishable the serial redirector can send both messages sequentially to the serial device and then when it receives the replies from the serial device it can distinguish which reply to send to each second peer based on the original request associated with each second peer. This can be done by storing information about the request or the expected response along with the requesting peer in memory. Alternatively depending on the capabilities of the serial device the messages sent to and or received from the serial device can indicate which peer is the appropriate peer. In an embodiment the serial redirector can receive messages from multiple second peers and determine which first peer is the destination. In one implementation the serial redirector determines that one transaction is quickly completed while the other transaction will include multiple back and forth messages. In this example the serial redirector can be configured to process the quick transaction before processing the longer running transaction. In another implementation transactions from certain second peers can be given a priority over transactions from other second peers. For example a routine status check message can be preempted by a transaction initiated by security system. As noted above this intelligent routing performed by the serial redirector can reduce integration costs between web based second peers and serially connected first peers.

In an embodiment where the first peer initiates a communication the serial redirector can be programmed with default second peer routing tables so that it know which second peer should receive that communication. These routing tables can be set up so that every time a certain type of communication is sent it is forwarded to the same second peer. Alternatively the serial redirector can intelligently determine which second peer should receive the communication based on a variety of factors including the load or delay in communicating with the second peer a preference order of second peers and or which second peer typically requests the type of communication received from the first peer.

In one implementation particularly but not limited to an implementation where the requests from the second peers are not distinguishable the serial redirector can redirect the first request to the first peer and hold and or reject the request from all subsequent second peers until the first transaction is completed. In the situation where a request is held once a response to a previous request is received from the serial device the second request can be sent to the serial device. In an alternative embodiment if the requests are identical the serial redirector can hold subsequent requests from second peers and when a response is received the serial redirector can send the same response to multiple second peers without the need to re request the same information from the serial device. In an implementation of a serial redirector a second peer can communicate with a plurality of serially connected first peers without requiring an individual connection for each first peer. Accordingly the number of connections opened and managed between the gateway device and the second peer are reduced. The methods and systems further allow existing serial devices to continue communicating with a packet based second peer without requiring an update to existing serial communications or transaction patterns. As more second peers become available in the form of web services or other software as a service implementations a serial redirector so configured allows legacy serial devices to seamlessly communicate with newer packet based services. This can be desirable in systems with an existing and widespread installation base featuring numerous serial peers because for example upgrading all the serial peers to communicate efficiently can be expensive and or time consuming.

In an implementation the peer messaging processor is configured to translate the incoming message. For example in the case where the incoming message is an XML message the peer messaging processor can extract information from the XML message and generate one or more datagrams appropriate for communicating with the first peer via a serial communication link . The peer messaging processor can perform additional manipulation of the incoming message. For example the peer messaging processor can add time date source or other message identification information to the message. Conversely the peer messaging processor is configured to remove information from the message. In an implementation the peer messaging processor is configured to translate all messages in the same way. In an implementation the peer messaging processor is configured to dynamically translate messages based at least in part on transaction specific information such as the first peer the second peer the site the time or date of the message the serial redirector status gateway status if included within a gateway or the system status.

In an implementation where the second peer communicates with a web service packet based interface the peer messaging processor is configured to manage the state of the transaction using a session or transaction identifier. The identifier can be generated by the peer messaging processor or by another processing module e.g. identifier generating web service second peer . The identifier can include random elements. The identifier can include well defined fields e.g. second peer identification appears in certain location . In an example implementation where the identifier is not generated by the second peer the identifier is transmitted to the second peer.

In a polling mode the second peer can use the identifier to perform subsequent status checks on the transaction by providing at least the identifier. In a push mode where transaction messages are transmitted to the second peer when available the second peer can use the identifier to sort incoming messages from the serial redirector and properly correlate the message with the second peer application initiating the transaction.

The peer messaging processor is configured to control delivery of the message to the first peer via a serial interface . As shown the first peer is in communication with the serial redirector via the communication link . Communication link is generally a local transport link such as RS232 or raw. TCP IP. A local transport link may refer to transport links which may not be accessible from a public network. Examples of the control that the peer messaging processor can be configured to perform include buffering message data and delivering after a configurable time passes delivering message data once maximum data volume is reached or delivering message data when a regular expression is matched against the received data. The peer messaging processor can also implement quality of service features such as workload management amongst the first peers service metering failover forwarding logging or security.

The peer messaging processor is configured to detect whether the first peer is available for processing. In the case where the destination first peer for the message is available the peer messaging processor can be configured to perform the message transformations and manipulations and send the result via the serial interface to the first peer . In the implementation shown in the message is transmitted from the peer messaging processor to a to first peer queue . The to first peer queue is a storage means for messages that are to be delivered to a first peer . A message can be placed in the to first peer queue if the destination first peer is unavailable e.g. offline in an error state . This situation is described further below in reference to . A message can be placed in the first peer queue if the destination first peer is currently processing. In an implementation it can be desirable to place all messages into the to first peer queue prior to delivery. The peer messaging processor is further configured to retrieve messages from the to first peer queue and deliver them as described above.

The peer messaging processor is configured to communicate with a from first peer queue . The from first peer queue generally serves a similar function as the to first peer queue except the from first peer queue is used for messages from the first peer to the second peer . When this condition occurs the serial redirector is configured to encapsulate the buffered data received from the first peer in a data interchange format e.g. XML or JSON and transmit the formatted data to the second peer . In an example implementation delivery to the second peer is via a web service interface not shown exposed by the second peer .

The above described configuration allows the second peer to process incoming data in an on demand fashion instead of having to monitor potentially thousands of active TCP SCTP IP connections even though there can be relatively little data arriving on each of the active sessions.

The to first peer queue and from first peer queue can be in memory queues. The queues can be physical memory queues. The queues can be hybrid queues configured to store some messages in memory and others to physical memory. For example if a message has been in the queue for a certain period of time it can be desirable to move this message to physical storage to enable messages for more active peers to be processed more efficiently.

The to first peer queue or from first peer queue can include a configurable to queuing scheme such as first in first out first in last out destination priority scheduling source priority scheduling or load scheduling. The queues can implement the queuing scheme. In some implementations it can be desirable to implement the queuing scheme utilizing the peer message processor .

In an exemplary implementation the second peer request message and the second peer request acknowledgement message are exchanged using HTTP protocol during the queuing stage . In this example the second peer request message from the second peer to the serial redirector is transmitted using an HTTP POST. The second peer request acknowledgement message provided by the serial redirector can include an HTTP 201 OK response. As discussed above for transactions that include state the serial redirector can include a session or transaction identifier in second peer request acknowledgement message . Similarly the second peer request message can include a session or transaction identifier to transmit subsequent second peer request messages for a given transaction e.g. transaction status request provide additional input data . It will be appreciated that other message exchange protocols can be used e.g. RPC .

In an exemplary implementation the messages exchanged can be XML based messages. It will be appreciated that other formats such as text comma separated values fixed length fields JSON or binary object representations can be utilized.

After the queuing stage the message exchange session continues to a processing stage . During the processing stage the serial redirector is configured to generate one or more messages based at least in part on the message received during the queuing stage . In the example shown in the generated message is shown as a first peer request . The first peer request is transmitted for example by a peer message processor via a serial interface to the first peer . The messages transmitted during the processing stage can be formatted to facilitate transmission over a serial communication path. In the example shown in the first peer is configured to transmit an acknowledgement message acknowledging receipt of the first peer request . In this example the first peer is configured to transmit a first peer response to the serial redirector . The serial redirector is configured to transmit a first peer response acknowledgement message to the first peer .

After the processing stage the message exchange session concludes with a responding stage . During the responding stage the serial redirector is configured to generate one or more messages based at least in part on the messages received during the processing stage . In the example shown a second peer response message is generated by the serial redirector based at least in part on information from the first peer response . The second peer response message is then transmitted to the second peer . In the example shown the second peer is configured to transmit a second peer response acknowledgement to the serial redirector . As with the queuing stage HTTP and XML are used to exchange the messages during the responding stage but other protocols and formats can be utilized as described above.

Table 1 illustrates an example of URI resource addressing and use of HTTP which may be used to examine manipulate the serial redirector resources e.g. transactionRequests and completedTransactions . In some implementations modification of some resources may not be allowed. As such the HTTP PUT method may not be supported and therefore not included in the following table. However in some implementations the resources may be remotely modified and may provide a corresponding PUT method including one or more aspects described above. Table 1 may be used to implement a REST ful web service interface to the serial redirector.

As discussed above additionally or alternatively to the serial connection a TCP connection may be used to communicate with the first peer . In such implementations a streaming connection may be provided to the first peer . The actual data that may be sent over TCP may be the same as described above. TCP protocol may include features such as acknowledgement and checksums. Accordingly TCP may be desirable for some implementations as the protocol may obviate the need for explicit actions to achieve these capabilities. Thus the systems and methods described above may be applicable whether the redirector first peer interface is configured to implement one or more of RS232 TCP SCTP UDP Apple Talk Bluetooth X10 or other communication protocol. For example the handling of messages and message queues may be performed as described above independent of the first peer communication protocol.

As used herein the term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions. For example determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The various operations of methods described above can be performed by any suitable means capable of performing the operations such as various hardware and or software component s circuits and or module s . Generally any operations illustrated in the Figures can be performed by corresponding functional means capable of performing the operations.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the present disclosure can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array signal FPGA or other programmable logic device PLD discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any commercially available processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

In one or more aspects the functions described can be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions can be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a web site server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Thus in some aspects computer readable medium can comprise non transitory computer readable medium e.g. tangible media . In addition in some aspects computer readable medium can comprise transitory computer readable medium e.g. a signal . Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The methods disclosed herein comprise one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions can be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is specified the order and or use of specific steps and or actions can be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

Thus certain aspects can comprise a computer program product for performing the operations presented herein. For example such a computer program product can comprise a computer readable medium having instructions stored and or encoded thereon the instructions being executable by one or more processors to perform the operations described herein. For certain aspects the computer program product can include packaging material.

Further it should be appreciated that modules and or other appropriate means for performing the methods and techniques described herein can be downloaded and or otherwise obtained by a device as applicable. For example such a device can be coupled to a server to facilitate the transfer of means for performing the methods described herein. Alternatively various methods described herein can be provided via storage means e.g. RAM ROM a physical storage medium such as a compact disc or floppy disk etc. such that a device can obtain the various methods upon coupling or providing the storage means to the device. Moreover any other suitable technique for providing the methods and techniques described herein to a device can be utilized.

It is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations can be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and apparatus described above without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

While the foregoing is directed to aspects of the present disclosure other and further aspects of the disclosure can be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof.

