---

title: Arm prosthetic device
abstract: A system for powering a prosthetic arm is disclosed. The system includes at least one internal battery located in the prosthetic arm, at least one external battery connected to the prosthetic arm, and a master controller configured to connect either the at least one internal battery or the at least one external battery to a power bus to power the prosthetic arm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09381099&OS=09381099&RS=09381099
owner: DEKA Products Limited Partnership
number: 09381099
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120803
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 088 063 filed Apr. 15 2011 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device which is now U.S. Publication No. US 2011 0257765 A1 published Oct. 20 2011 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 979 943 which is also a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 609 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0274365 A1 published Oct. 28 2010 and U.S. Pat. No. 8 849 624 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 168 786 filed Apr. 13 2009 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device and is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 141 filed Feb. 6 2008 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2008 0288088 A1 published Nov. 20 2008 and U.S. Pat. No. 9 114 028 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 899 833 filed Feb. 6 2007 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 963 639 filed Aug. 6 2007 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application also claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 542 928 filed Oct. 4 2011 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device. This application also claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 551 119 filed Oct. 25 2011 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device. This application also claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 604 950 filed Feb. 29 2012 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device each of which is also hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 09 C 0035 awarded by the U.S. Army RDECOM ACQ CTR. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present development relates to mechanical and medical devices and more particularly to prosthetic devices. More particularly the development utilizes mechanical structure and user or motor stimuli to operate a prosthesis similarly to a human limb.

Existing prosthetic arms have limited movement for the user. Further there are limited options for those patients who have lost their entire arm shoulder to hand. Also hand portions of existing prosthetic arms give the user in many instances one degree of movement. These known prosthetic devices provide limited capability with respect to amongst other things finer tasks.

Accordingly there is a need for a prosthetic arm that replaces an arm from shoulder to hand and that has increased degrees of freedom. There is also a need for a prosthetic hand that moves in a realistic manner.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a system for powering a device is disclosed. The system includes at least one internal battery located in a device at least one external battery connected to the device and a master controller configured to connect either the at least one internal battery or the at least one external battery to a power bus to power the device.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention include one or more of the following wherein the system further includes wherein the at least one external battery further includes a keying feature. Wherein the system further includes a battery charger for charging the at least one external battery.

Wherein the battery charger is configured to accommodate at least two external batteries. Wherein the system includes at least two external batteries. Wherein the external batteries include built in circuits for measuring state of charge. Wherein the system further includes a holster configured to accept and secure the at least one external battery. Wherein the holster further includes a power button. Wherein the at least one external battery powers the device. Wherein the at least one internal battery is rechargeable. Wherein the at least one external battery is rechargeable. Wherein the system further includes at least one AC adapter. Wherein the AC adapter charges the internal battery. Wherein the master controller is configured to recharge the internal battery using the at least one external battery. Wherein the system further includes wherein the master controller is configured to determine the capacity of the at least one internal battery and when the capacity of the at least one internal battery is below a threshold and determine whether to charge the internal battery using an AC adapter or from the at least one external battery. Wherein the master is controller is configured to determine when to switch from receiving power from the internal battery to receiving power from the at least one external battery. Wherein the master controller is configured to determine the capacity of the internal battery and when the capacity of the internal battery is below a threshold determining whether to charge the internal battery using an AC adapter or from the at least one external battery. Wherein the master controller is configured to determine the external battery has been disconnected from a holster and switch to use the internal battery to power the bus. Wherein the master controller is configured to

determine if an external battery is connected to the system and if an external battery is connected to the system connecting the external battery to the power bus and disconnecting the internal battery from the power bus. Wherein the master controller is configured to determine the external battery remaining capacity is below a predetermined threshold and command the internal battery to switch to power the bus. Wherein the master controller is configured to power the device using a first external battery disconnect the first external battery from the device connect an internal battery to a power bus to power the device connecting an AC adapter to the device charging the internal battery using the AC adapter disconnecting the AC adapter from the device connecting the first external battery to the device and charging the internal battery using the first external battery. Wherein the master controller is configured to power the device using a first external battery disconnect the first external battery from the device 

connect an internal battery to a power bus to power the device connect an AC adapter to the device and charge the internal battery using the AC adapter. Wherein the master controller is configured to power the device using a first external battery disconnect the first external battery from the device connect an internal battery to a power bus to power the device connect a second external battery to the device disconnect the internal battery from the power bus and

connect the second external battery to the power bus. Wherein the master controller is configured to power the device using a first external battery determine that the first external battery is disconnected from the device and

Wherein the master controller is configured to monitor the capacity of an internal battery determine the capacity of an external battery determine whether the internal battery capacity is less than a predetermined threshold and if the internal battery capacity is less than a predetermined threshold and the external battery capacity if above a predetermined threshold charging the internal battery using the external battery. Wherein the master controller is configured to determine if an external battery is connected to the device if not the master controller allowing the internal battery to power the bus if an external battery is connected to the device determine the capacity of the external battery if the capacity exceeds a predetermined threshold disconnecting the internal battery from powering the bus and connect the external battery to power the bus. Wherein the master controller is configured to determine if an external battery is connected to the device if not the master controller allowing the internal battery to power the bus if an external battery is connected to the device disconnect the internal battery from powering the bus and connect the external battery to power the bus.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes determining the total capacity of the installed batteries in a device and if the total capacity is below a predetermined threshold then alerting a user that the total capacity is below a threshold.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes determining if an external battery is connected to the device if not the master controller allowing the internal battery to power the bus if an external battery is connected to the device disconnecting the internal battery from powering the bus and connecting the external battery to power the bus.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes determining if an external battery is connected to the device if not the master controller allowing the internal battery to power the bus if an external battery is connected to the device determining the capacity of the external battery if the capacity exceeds a predetermined threshold disconnecting the internal battery from powering the bus and connecting the external battery to power the bus.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes monitoring the capacity of an internal battery determining the capacity of an external battery determining whether the internal battery capacity is less than a predetermined threshold and

if the internal battery capacity is less than a predetermined threshold and the external battery capacity if above a predetermined threshold charging the internal battery using the external battery.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes determining an external battery has been disconnected from a holster and the microcontroller switching to use an internal battery of the device to power the bus.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes powering the device using a first external battery determining that the first external battery is disconnected from the device and turning the internal interface circuit on to power the device using an internal battery.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes powering the device using a first external battery disconnecting the first external battery from the device connecting an internal battery to a power bus to power the device connecting a second external battery to the device disconnecting the internal battery from the power bus and connecting the second external battery to the power bus.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes powering the device using a first external battery disconnecting the first external battery from the device connecting an internal battery to a power bus to power the device connecting an AC adapter to the device and charging the internal battery using the AC adapter.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a method for powering a device is disclosed. The method includes powering the device using a first external battery disconnecting the first external battery from the device connecting an internal battery to a power bus to power the device connecting an AC adapter to the device charging the internal battery using the AC adapter disconnecting the AC adapter from the device connecting the first external battery to the device and charging the internal battery using the first external battery.

According to some aspects of the present invention a battery system is disclosed. The system includes at least one electronic device having a housing at least one rechargeable internal battery located inside the electronic device housing and at least one external battery located outside the electronic device housing wherein the at least one external battery charges the at least one internal battery.

It is one aspect of the present device to provide a prosthetic device that will allow the user improved range of motion improved tactile capabilities increased comfort for the user and decreased reliance on manual positioning of the prosthesis.

According to some aspects of the present invention a compound motion assembly for providing a two axis compound motion through a pre determined path includes an input member and an output member moveably coupled to the input member. Actuation of the compound motion assembly generates movement of the output member relative to the input member along a compound motion path having motion about at least two axes. In some embodiments the compound motion assembly includes a drive arrangement for controlling movement of the output member relative to the input member. In these embodiments the rate of motion about each axis may vary as the drive arrangement is actuated at a constant rate.

According to some embodiments the output member may be moveably coupled to the input member through at least a first joint having a first axis and a second joint having a second axis the first and second joints being connected in series. The compound motion assembly may include a path member that is fixedly coupled to the input member and has a fixed path profile formed therein defining the compound motion path. A follower member may be coupled to the output member and engaging the fixed path profile of the path member such that pivotal movement of the output member relative to the input member about both the first axis and the second axis is generated as the follower member moves along the pre determined path. In some embodiments the drive arrangement may drive the compound motion assembly through one of the first or second joints to cause movement of the output member.

According to some aspects of the present invention a prosthetic limb segment has a housing with an input interface and an output interface that are moveable with respect to one another and a motorized drive for effecting movement of at least one of the output interface or the input interface. The prosthetic limb segment also includes a controller disposed within the housing for controlling the motorized drive and also for communicating with and controlling at least a second motorized drive of at least a second prosthetic limb segment.

According to some embodiments the prosthetic limb segment may include a user interface integrally formed in the housing and in communication with the controller. The user interface may include a status indicator for displaying information from the controller. In some embodiments the status indicator may have one or more LEDs for displaying information from the controller. In some embodiments at least a portion of the LEDs are arranged in an array. In some embodiments the user interface includes at least one input member for providing a signal to the controller. The user interface may include a protective cover which may be flexible and may include at least a portion that is translucent to allow light from an LED disposed beneath the protective cover therethrough.

According to some aspects of the present invention a safety mechanism for a prosthetic device having at least one motorized drive and a controller for controlling the motorized drive is provided. The safety mechanism includes an actuator electrically coupled in parallel with the controller between the motorized drive and a power source so that actuation of the actuator supplies power to the motorized drive bypassing the controller and actuates the motorized drive until it reaches a safe position.

According to some embodiments the safety mechanism may include an actuator that has at least two switches coupled to actuate simultaneously and electrically coupled in parallel so that actuation of only one switch of the at least two switches is sufficient to actuate the motorize drive thereby providing redundancy. In some embodiments the actuator is electrically coupled in parallel with the controller between the power source and a plurality of motorized drives such that actuation of the actuator supplies power to the plurality of motorized drives and actuates each motorized drive until it reaches a safe position.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the appended claims and accompanying drawings.

Referring to a prosthetic arm apparatus for attachment to a shoulder of a shoulder disarticulated amputee includes a plurality of segments including a shoulder abductor a shoulder flexion assembly a humeral rotator an elbow flexion assembly a wrist rotator a wrist flexion assembly and a hand assembly . The prosthetic arm apparatus in the exemplary embodiment has the dimensions and weight of a female arm of a fiftieth percentile so that many different users may comfortably use the prosthetic arm apparatus . As should be understood by those skilled in the art the prosthetic arm apparatus may be constructed to larger or smaller dimensions if desired. The prosthetic arm apparatus may be controlled by a control system not shown such as the various control systems described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 116 filed Feb. 6 2008 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 575 filed Feb. 16 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 471 filed Feb. 16 2010 and the U.S. patent application entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROL OF A PROSTHETIC DEVICE filed on the same day as the present application and assigned to the same assignee each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring to one embodiment of the shoulder abductor is shown. The shoulder abductor includes a harness mount for connecting the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in to a support apparatus as the various prosthetic supports described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 026 971 filed Feb. 6 2008 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 340 filed Feb. 16 2010 and the U.S. patent application entitled DYNAMIC SUPPORT APPARATUS AND SYSTEM filed on the same day as the present application and assigned to the same assignee each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The harness mount has harness interface holes that may be used to attach the abductor to a prosthetic harness not shown or other system for supporting the prosthetic arm apparatus . In the exemplary embodiment the harness or prosthetic support apparatus may also be one disclosed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 026 971 by Altobelli et al. entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus filed on Feb. 6 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring to the shoulder abductor also has a shoulder flexion assembly mount shown according to one embodiment. The shoulder flexion assembly mount interfaces with the shoulder flexion assembly to mount the shoulder flexion assembly onto the shoulder abductor . In one embodiment the flexion assembly mount has interface holes to facilitate connection of the shoulder flexion assembly by attachment means such as bolts.

Referring to the shoulder abductor further includes an abductor joint shown according to one embodiment. The abductor joint is used to pivot the shoulder flexion assembly mount away from the harness mount and back toward the harness mount .

Referring to the shoulder abductor includes an abductor motor to control the pivotal movement of the abductor joint shown in both the shoulder abductor and abductor motor shown according to one embodiment. In this embodiment the abductor motor is a brushed DC motor controlling the pivotal movement through an abductor belt connected to a worm drive driving a worm wheel connected to an abductor harmonic drive gearing system .

Referring to the shoulder flexion assembly in one embodiment has a main shoulder housing with an abductor interface for connecting the shoulder flexion assembly to the shoulder abductor . The shoulder flexion assembly also has a humeral interface for connecting the humeral rotator to the shoulder flexion assembly .

Referring to in one embodiment shoulder flexion motor magnets are disposed around a shaft of a shoulder flexion motor rotor . In this embodiment a shoulder flexion motor armature drives the shoulder flexion motor rotor which in turn drives a shoulder flexion motor pulley around a motor shaft . The shoulder flexion motor pulley supports a shoulder flexion belt which is linked between the shoulder flexion motor pulley and a shoulder flexion belt driven pulley . The shoulder flexion belt driven pulley drives a shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system wave generator . A shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system flexspline rotates against the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system wave generator and a shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline resulting in reduced speed for the joint movement. The shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system flexspline is connected to the abductor interface and is thus able to rotate the shoulder flexion assembly in reference to the abductor interface.

Referring to in one embodiment a non backdriving clutch is disposed inside the main shoulder housing . The non backdriving clutch allows the prosthetic arm to hold position by locking when the prosthetic arm is not moving.

Referring to and in one embodiment roller bearings line the interface between an input cage and an output hex . When a force is applied to the shoulder abductor interface the output hex locks against the bearing race and the roller bearings . This prevents the shoulder flexion assembly from moving due to force applied to its output shoulder abductor interface . Upon the exertion of a necessary amount of input force through the clutch input cage the output hex disengages and allows the shoulder flexion assembly to move. The clutch input cage and the output hex are both constrained by a clutch race . It should be understood by those skilled in the art that other mechanisms could be used to prevent backdriving of the prosthetic arm such as a clutch that locks in one direction or a solenoid with brakes that engage when the solenoid is powered. Additionally although described in connection with the shoulder flexion assembly it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the non backdriving clutch may be included in other prosthetic joints described herein.

Referring to in one embodiment a compliance subassembly shown in includes a compliance reactor positioned on top of the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline shown in and held in place by the clamp . The compliance reactor measures the amount of displacement in the compliance subassembly in relation to the position of a compliance sensor magnet .

Referring to in one embodiment the interior of compliance subassembly includes series elastic elements . The shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline defines the interior of the compliance subassembly and is formed to accommodate the placement of the series elastic elements around an outer diameter of the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline . The series elastic elements are confined by the shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system circular spline and the clamp .

Referring to the placement of the compliance reactor in relation to the series elastic elements and reactor elements is shown. In this embodiment three reactor elements are positioned around the compliance reactor equidistant to each other. One series elastic element is placed on either side of each reactor element . When the shoulder flexion assembly is subjected to unexpected force such as a sudden jolt or impact the compliance reactor and reactor elements displace from their rest positions and compress against the series elastic elements . In that way the compliance subassembly attenuates the shock being transferred to the rest of the shoulder flexion assembly . The compliance reactor may also measure the amount of displacement and compliance by measuring the movement of the compliance reactor in relation to the stationary position of the compliance sensor magnet .

Referring to one embodiment of the humeral rotator is shown. The humeral rotator includes an outer bearing carrier attached to the first control housing shown in . The first control housing shown in is used to connect the humeral rotator to the shoulder flexion assembly . The inner rotational elements of the humeral rotator are held in place by a clamp which is fastened to the outer bearing carrier . A humeral mount passes through the clamp and includes an elbow interface for attaching the elbow flexion assembly to the humeral rotator .

Still referring to the one embodiment a humeral potentiometer of the humeral rotator measures the rotational displacement of a humeral potentiometer shaft that rotates proportionately to the humeral mount .

Referring to the elbow flexion assembly includes an elbow joint and a radial mount . The elbow joint includes a slot into which the elbow interface of the humeral rotator is inserted to facilitate connection of the elbow flexion assembly to the humeral rotator . The radial mount provides a second electronics housing in which an ACM stack is located. ACM as used herein refers to Arm Control Module. The radial mount includes a wrist interface for attachment of the wrist rotator .

In some embodiments the ACM stack may be integrated into the wrist rotator as will be discussed in greater detail below. Integrating the ACM stack into the wrist rotator may be advantageous since the wrist rotator is likely to be present in prosthetic arms for essentially all types of amputees whereas the elbow flexion assembly may not be present such as in a prosthetic arm for a transradial amputee.

Referring to the elbow joint includes an elbow motor armature that drives an elbow motor rotor . Elbow magnets are disposed at one end of the motor rotor and the opposing end of the motor rotor has a sun gear . As the motor armature drives the sun gear the sun gear in turn drives four planetary gears positioned equidistant from each other around the sun gear . The four planetary gears in turn react against a ring gear giving the elbow flexion assembly a first stage of speed reduction through an elbow harmonic drive gearing system wave generator which also acts as the planet carrier. The elbow harmonic drive gearing system wave generator powers the elbow harmonic drive gearing system flexspline which drives against the elbow harmonic drive gearing system circular spline giving the elbow flexion assembly a second stage of reduction. The elbow harmonic drive gearing system flexspline then drives the motion of the elbow flexion assembly . Bearings and crossed roller bearings support the outer perimeter of the elbow flexion assembly . Although described with both a planetary gear system and an elbow harmonic drive gearing system the elbow flexion assembly could be controlled solely by a harmonic drive gearing system by changing the gear reduction ratio.

In various embodiments it may be desirable to avoid having to perform additional measurement by using the measurement in the compliance process. One example includes in various embodiments where the planetary gears may be used for compliance and measurement of load.

Referring to in the embodiment shown the radial mount is structurally fixed to the elbow joint such that when the elbow joint is actuated the radial mount moves.

Referring to an elbow compliance subassembly is incorporated into the elbow flexion assembly . A plurality of arms extends from the center portion of the elbow compliance subassembly . Each arm has an elbow series elastic element disposed on either side of the am . Similar to the shoulder flexion assembly if the elbow flexion assembly is subject to a torque the elbow compliance subassembly with its series elastic elements is capable of absorbing the shock attenuating the torque magnitude through the rest of the elbow flexion assembly .

Referring to wherein like numerals represent like elements in some embodiments the elbow compliance assembly may include a carrier having a magnet not shown disposed thereon and having a carrier top and a carrier bottom that connect to one another to surround the elbow harmonic drive gearing system circular spline and that interface with a compliance grounding member . The carrier top and carrier bottom to restrict movement of the elbow harmonic drive gearing system circular spline thereby allowing the circular spline to operate substantially as discussed above to drive the elbow flexion assembly shown in . The carrier bottom includes clips located around its periphery that slidably engage corresponding compliance shafts of the compliance grounding member to connect the carrier to the compliance grounding member . Each clip is positioned on a compliance shaft between two compliance springs that inhibit sliding movement of the clips relative to the shafts . The compliance springs are preferably formed from metal and in some embodiments each spring may include a plurality of stacked spring washers. In operation as the elbow harmonic drive becomes loaded the clips of the carrier slide on the compliance shafts and load the compliance springs which deflect in proportion to the load. A sensor not shown measures the displacement of the magnet not shown thereby providing a measurement of the torque carried by the elbow harmonic drive and therefore the elbow flexion assembly shown in . The elbow compliance assembly advantageously provides improved compliance measurements due to its metal springs as compared to elastomeric spring designs which have greater hysteresis. Additionally the carrier of the elbow compliance assembly advantageously allows the circular spline to be mounted without any modifications that may reduce its load capacity.

Referring to the ACM stack includes circuit boards connected to one another by structural standoffs . The structural standoffs are constructed of a conductive material so that electrical power may be passed through the circuit boards . The structural standoffs allow power to be supplied to each circuit board without conventional power connections.

Referring to the wrist rotator includes a wrist outer bearing carrier a wrist clamp a wrist potentiometer an elbow interface and a wrist flexion assembly interface .

Referring to movement of the wrist rotator is controlled by a harmonic drive gearing system similar to that described for the humeral rotator. A wrist rotator motor armature drives a wrist rotator motor rotor having wrist rotator magnets disposed to its surface. The lower portion of the wrist rotator motor rotor integrates a wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system wave generator . A wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system flexspline rotates with the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system wave generator against a wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system circular spline resulting in reduction in the speed of rotation as the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system flexspline causes the wrist flexion assembly interface to move with respect to the rest of the wrist rotator . Bearings support the wrist rotator motor rotor . Bearings support the harmonic drive gearing system components and .

Still referring to the wrist potentiometer of the wrist rotator is disposed at one end of a wrist shaft and measures the rotational displacement thereof. The wrist shaft may be tubular having an electronics channel for passing electronic power and controls through the wrist rotator .

Referring to the wrist flexion assembly includes hand control module circuit boards an input support structure an output arm and a hand interface . The input support structure connects the wrist rotator with the wrist flexion assembly . The output arm has positive and negative flexion such that the output arm is able to move in two opposite directions in reference to the support structure . The hand interface allows the hand assembly to be connected to the wrist flexion assembly . Referring to the wrist flexion assembly has wrist electrical connections for supplying power to a wrist flexion motor .

Referring to in the embodiment shown the wrist flexion motor drives a wrist flexion output gear which in turn drives a wrist flexion final stage driven gear . A wrist flexion pivot axle of the output arm is axially disposed inside an opening defined by the interior of the wrist flexion final stage driven gear . Wrist flexion series elastic elements are disposed in the interior of the output arm . Movement of the wrist flexion final stage driven gear facilitates the positive and negative motion of the output arm . A non backdriving clutch is disposed at one end of the wrist flexion output gear .

Referring to the output arm has a wrist flexion drive arm which is driven by the wrist flexion final stage driven gear . The end of the wrist flexion drive arm accommodates a wrist flexion compliance sensor magnet . The wrist flexion series elastic elements are disposed on either side of the wrist flexion drive arm and the wrist flexion series elastic elements and the drive arm are substantially enclosed within the output arm . Similar to the elbow flexion assembly and the shoulder flexion assembly if the wrist flexion assembly is subjected to a force the wrist flexion drive arm compresses the wrist flexion series elastic elements and attenuates the force or impact through the rest of the wrist flexion assembly .

The following is a description of one embodiment of the hand assembly. Other embodiments of the hand assembly are described and shown elsewhere in this specification. Referring to the hand assembly includes a hand support for providing an interface for connecting the hand assembly to the wrist flexion output arm . The hand assembly also includes a thumb structure an index finger structure and an MRP structure replicating a middle finger a ring finger and a pinky finger . In various embodiments the thumb structure may be driven by two thumb drives that feed into a single differential giving the thumb structure two degrees of freedom of movement. The index finger structure may be driven by a single index drive and the MRP structure may be driven by a single MRP drive that feeds a double differential. The MRP approach allows for an indeterminate versus determinate linkage.

Referring to the index finger structure not shown is driven by the index drive through an index drive pulley an index tensioner an index tension belt and an index finger pulley . The index drive pulley is stage driven and transfers the torque to the index tension belt which in turn rotates the index finger pulley causing the index finger structure to move. As the index tension belt transfers the torque one side of the index tension belt tightens and the other side loosens depending on which direction the index drive pulley is rotated. The index tensioner is located between the index drive pulley and the index finger pulley and the index tensioner displaces in relation to the change in load to maintain the tension of the index tension belt . The index tensioner has one side grounded and the other side capable of displacement upon the application of a load. The index tensioner may instead ground the moveable side of the index tensioner with a spring.

Referring to in another embodiment the index finger structure is driven through an index sun shaft a set of index planets an index planet carrier an index ring gear and an index drive gear . The index drive drives the index ring gear turning the index planets the turning of which causes the index planet carrier to rotate. The index drive gear is driven by the external teeth of the index planet carrier causing the index structure to move. Any torque transmitted by the index planet carrier will react against the index sun shaft causing it to rotationally displace the index spring through the index spring mount . This rotational displacement sensed by an index potentiometer can be used to infer the load on the index finger structure . This rotational displacement may be used to store elastic energy and to provide the index finger structure with a measure of compliance that may aid in gripping and with load absorption.

Referring to the thumb structure is mounted on a thumb support which is driven by the two thumb differential drives . The thumb structure has flexural cuts at its base allowing the compliant thumb structure to move when a load is applied to it. This compliance in the thumb structure may aid in gripping and with load absorption which may prevent the hand assembly from damaging objects not shown by closing around them too quickly and forcefully.

Referring to the hand assembly includes an MRP drive pulley driven by the MRP drive . The MRP drive pulley is connected through an MRP tension belt to the MRP pulley enabling movement of the MRP structure . The MRP drive pulley is stage driven and transfers the load to the MRP tension belt which in turn rotates the linked MRP structure via the MRP pulley . As the MRP tension belt transfers torque one side of the MRP tension belt tightens as the other side loosens. An MRP tensioner located at one side of the MRP tension belt displaces in relation to the change in load to maintain the tension of the MRP tension belt . This also provides the MRP structure with compliance to aid in gripping and with load absorption which may prevent the hand assembly from damaging object s not shown by closing around the objects not shown too quickly and forcefully.

Referring to in another embodiment the MRP finger structures are driven through an MRP sun shaft a set of MRP planets an MRP planet carrier an MRP ring gear and an MRP drive gear . The MRP drive drives the MRP ring gear turning the MRP planets the turning of which causes the MRP planet carrier to rotate. The MRP drive gear is driven by the external teeth of the MRP planet carrier causing the MRP structures to move. Any torque transmitted by the MRP planet carrier will react against the MRP sun shaft causing it to rotationally displace the MRP spring through the MRP spring mount . This rotational displacement can be used to store elastic energy.

Referring to the MRP differential drive includes a main MRP drive gear . The MRP drive gear drives a first MRP input axle . The first MRP input axle drives a first differential idler gear which optionally drives a middle spur gear or a differential interface gear . The middle spur gear drives a middle pivot axle . The middle finger is mounted on the middle pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP differential drive . The differential interface gear drives a second MRP input axle . The second MRP input axle drives a second differential idler gear which optionally drives a ring spur gear or a pinky spur gear . The ring spur gear drives a ring pivot axle . The ring finger is mounted on the ring pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP differential drive . The pinky spur gear drives a pinky pivot axle . The pinky finger is mounted on the pinky pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . While the MRP drive drives the middle finger the ring finger and the pinky finger the gear configuration of the first input axle and the second input axle allows independent movement for the under actuated finger gear system of the MRP structures .

Referring to in another embodiment of the hand the MRP differential drive includes an MRP drive gear which drives a double differential allowing the MRP fingers to conformably wrap around an object. The MRP drive gear drives a first MRP input axle . The first input axle drives a first differential idler gear which optionally drives a middle spur gear or a differential interface gear . The middle spur gear drives a middle pivot axle . The middle finger is mounted on the middle pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . The differential interface gear drives a second MRP input axle . The second MRP input axle drives a second differential idler gear which optionally drives a ring spur gear or a pinky spur gear . The ring spur gear drives a ring pivot axle . The ring finger is mounted on the ring pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . The pinky spur gear drives a pinky pivot axle . The pinky finger is mounted on the pinky pivot axle and is thus actuated by the MRP drive . While the MRP drive drives the middle finger the ring finger and the pinky finger the gear configuration of the first input axle and the second input axle allows independent movement for the under actuated finger gear system of the MRP structures .

Referring to the thumb differential drives control the movement of the thumb structure and are driven by thumb actuators . The thumb actuators have nonbackdriving thumb clutches to prevent output loads from reaching and backdriving the thumb actuators. One thumb actuator drives a first thumb output drive and a first thumb output gear . The first thumb output gear in turn drives a first thumb transfer gear which drives a fixed differential shaft . The fixed differential shaft drives one thumb differential bevel gear . The second thumb actuator drives a second thumb output drive and a second thumb output gear . The second thumb output gear drives a second thumb transfer gear which drives a thumb differential bevel gear . The two thumb differential bevel gears and operate the thumb structure in its two degrees of motion.

The thumb structure the index finger structure and MRP structure in one embodiment are covered in silicone which provides additional friction and aids in gripping objects. In some embodiments the entire hand assembly may also be covered in silicone to provide additional grip for holding objects. In other embodiments the silicone material may be replaced by other compliant materials.

The hand assembly is advantageous because the thumb structure index finger structure and MRP structure provide various degrees of freedom that allow the formation of various grasps or grips. Additionally the different drives for each of the thumb structure index finger structure and MRP structure provide various beneficial characteristics to the hand assembly . For instance the thumb structure moves relatively slow but with greater force than the index finger structure and MRP structure . The index finger structure moves quickly but with less force and is non backdrivable. This combination of thumb structure movement and index finger structure movement allow the quick formation of strong hand grips. Additionally the combination allows for a smaller index finger actuator which reduces size and weight of the hand assembly . Additionally the index finger structure and MRP structure move similar to human fingers which makes them look more natural and makes them more intuitive for the user to control. The MRP structure provides only bulk control for gripping objects without providing for individual finger manipulation since fine control is not necessary for the MRP structure . Additionally the MRP structure advantageously moves each finger of the MRP structure with a single actuator eliminating excessive bulk in the hand assembly . Like the index finger structure the MRP structure moves quickly with low force but is also non backdrivable. Additionally the fingers of the MRP structure are highly flexible allowing them to grip objects of varying size and shape. The MRP structure functionality allows the user to grasp an object with the MRP structure and thumb structure while allowing the user to move the index finger structure separately for example to activate a button on the object.

The various parts of the prosthetic arm apparatus are in some embodiments constructed from plastic or magnesium. However where more strength and or other material properties are desired the parts may be made of aluminum titanium or steel. In other embodiments the various parts of the prosthetic arm may be constructed of other metals or plastics depending on the desired characteristics including strength weight compliance or other similar performance characteristics of the various parts.

Referring to a tactile feedback sensor may be positioned on the inner side of the thumb structure . The tactile feedback sensor may be a pressure sensor force sensor a displacement sensor or other similar sensor capable of providing the user with feedback. Referring to the tactile feedback sensor is operatively connected to a feedback actuator . The tactile feedback sensor may be connected to the feedback actuator by either wires or wirelessly. In operation as the user grips an object with the hand assembly feedback sensor reads the displacement of or the force exerted on the thumb structure . That reading is then sent to the feedback actuator which gives the user tactile feedback that indicates the strength of the grip. Feedback actuator may be placed on the chest of the user located on a prosthetic support apparatus in an area of tactile communication with the user or in any other location capable of receiving tactile feedback such as on a user s residuum . Referring to the feedback actuator may be located on a foot controller that is used to control hand assembly .

Feedback actuator may be a vibration motor such as any vibration motor known in the art placed against the skin of the user. As the user grips an object feedback actuator begins vibrating notifying the user how strong the object is being gripped. As the force on or displacement of the tactile feedback sensor changes frequency and or amplitude of vibration may also change notifying the amputee of a changing grip. For example if a vibrating actuator is placed at the chest of the user as in the user will feel the vibration at his chest.

The feedback actuator may also be placed wherever the controller for the hand assembly is located. For example if a foot controller controls the hand assembly the feedback actuator may be incorporated into the foot controller . The user will then receive tactile feedback of the strength of the prosthetic grip at the same location where the controller is located. The actuator may also be a pressure actuator that applies pressure against the user s skin. For example the actuator may have a rod that increases pressure against the amputee s skin as the hand assembly increases its grip on an object.

Although described with a single tactile feedback sensor additional tactile feedback sensors may be placed at other locations on the hand assembly . For example additional tactile feedback sensors may be placed on the index finger structure the MRP structures on the palm of the hand assembly or on any combination of these positions or any other location. Each tactile feedback sensor would then be operatively connected to an associated feedback actuator . Multiple tactile feedback sensors and actuators would provide more sophisticated tactile feedback of the strength of the grip improving the control of the hand assembly .

In some embodiments the tactile feedback sensor may indicate a change in pressure or force rather than an absolute pressure or force. For example if the force detected by the tactile feedback sensor is constant the feedback actuator does not actuate but if that pressure or force increases or decreases the actuator would actuate to indicate the change in pressure or force. Additionally although described in terms of grip strength the tactile feedback sensors and actuators may provide a variety of other feedback in including temperature an operational mode of the prosthetic arm surface finish of a object slip of an object within the hand assembly or the like.

In operation the prosthetic arm apparatus is able to move substantially similar to a human arm. Referring to starting with the hand assembly the thumb structure index finger structure and MRP structure are each driven independent of the others and therefore each may be actuated without actuating the other two structures. Both of the thumb actuators control motion of the thumb structure in a direction toward or away from the center of the palm of the hand assembly as shown in through the miter gear and in a direction toward or away from the side of the palm of the hand assembly as shown in through the lateral rotation shaft depending upon the direction and speed of rotation of each thumb actuator . Thus the thumb actuators shown in provide the thumb structure with two degrees of freedom in the thumb structure s movement. Coupling the two thumb actuators through the differential described above to provide the two degrees of freedom to the thumb structure is advantageous over providing a single degree of freedom with each actuator because the torque of each actuator through the differential is used for movement in both degrees of freedom which effectively doubles the torque of the thumb in each direction as compared to single actuators. Specifically the index finger structure may be actuated toward or away from the palm of the hand assembly wherein the movement path is similar to that of a human index finger while making or releasing a fist. The middle finger ring finger and pinky finger of the MRP structure are actuated by the MRP differential drive . Additionally the middle finger ring finger and pinky finger are actuated toward or away from the palm of the hand assembly similar to the index finger structure . However the middle finger ring finger and pinky finger are each geared separately such that the rate of movement of each is different simulating human finger movement and making the hand assembly more similar to a human hand than conventional prior art prosthetic devices.

Referring to the hand assembly is mounted on the wrist flexion assembly via the hand interface as shown in . Referring to as the output arm of the wrist flexion assembly is actuated the hand assembly is also caused to move. The output arm of the wrist flexion assembly may be actuated pivotally about wrist flexion pivot axle as shown in moving the hand interface to the left or right and thus pivoting the hand assembly in relation to the input support structure .

Referring back to the wrist flexion assembly is attached to the wrist rotator via wrist flexion assembly interface shown in . Referring to when actuated the wrist flexion assembly interface is rotated about wrist shaft in relation to the wrist outer bearing carrier . Therefore the wrist flexion assembly and attached hand assembly are also caused to rotate in reference to the wrist outer bearing carrier by actuation of the wrist rotator . Therefore the wrist rotator allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move in rotation similar to a human wrist joint.

Referring back to the wrist rotator is attached to the elbow flexion assembly via the wrist interface shown in . Referring to when the elbow flexion assembly is actuated the radial mount is rotated about the axis of motor rotor . The wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are thus also caused to rotate about the axis of motor rotor because they are attached at the wrist interface to the radial mount . Therefore the elbow flexion joint allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move similar to flexion extension of a human elbow joint.

Referring back to the elbow flexion assembly is attached to the humeral rotator via the humeral mount shown in . Referring to actuation of the humeral rotator causes the humeral mount to rotate in relation to the outer bearing carrier of the humeral rotator . Since the elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to the humeral mount they are also caused to rotate in relation to the outer bearing carrier . This allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to rotate to perform an arm wrestling motion.

Referring back to the humeral rotator is attached to the shoulder flexion assembly through the humeral interface shown in . Referring to actuation of the shoulder flexion assembly causes the main shoulder housing to pivot about the center of the abductor interface . Since the humeral rotator elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to the main housing they are also caused to rotate in relation to the abductor interface . Therefore the shoulder flexion assembly allows the prosthetic arm apparatus to move along the torso simulating running motion.

Referring to the shoulder flexion joint is attached to the shoulder abductor through the shoulder flexion assembly mount shown in . Referring to the shoulder abductor is attached to a harness that is worn by the user via harness mount . When the shoulder abductor is actuated in a positive direction the shoulder flexion assembly mount pivots away from the harness mount and the user. Similarly by actuating the shoulder abductor in a negative direction the shoulder flexion assembly mount is pivoted toward the harness mount and the user. Since the shoulder flexion assembly humeral rotator elbow flexion assembly wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and hand assembly are attached to shoulder abductor at the flexion assembly mount they are also caused to pivot with the shoulder flexion assembly mount .

One characteristic of the prosthetic arm apparatus described herein is that it provides the user with substantially the same movement capabilities and degrees of freedom of a human arm including two degrees of freedom in shoulder functionality. Additionally the modularity of each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus provides a significant advantage over conventional prosthetic devices. In particular since each segment of the plurality of segments operates independently of each other segment of the plurality of segments fewer segments may be used for less severe amputees. For example a transhumeral amputee may have full shoulder functionality in the residuum in which case the shoulder abductor and shoulder flexion assembly segments would be omitted from the prosthetic arm apparatus . The resulting prosthetic arm apparatus would include the humeral rotator the elbow flexion assembly the wrist rotator the wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly wherein the humeral rotator would be attached to the prosthetic harness. In some cases the residuum of the transhumeral amputee may even have humeral rotation in which case the prosthetic arm apparatus may be further simplified to include only the elbow flexion assembly the wrist rotator the wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly with the elbow flexion assembly being attached to the prosthetic support apparatus. Similarly for a transradial amputee the prosthetic arm apparatus may include only the wrist rotator wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly with the wrist rotator being attached to the prosthetic support apparatus. Additionally in some embodiments the prosthetic arm apparatus may be further simplified to include only the wrist flexion assembly and the hand assembly when the transradial amputee has wrist rotation in their residuum. In these embodiments the wrist flexion assembly may be attached to the prosthetic support apparatus. Thus the modularity of each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus advantageously allows for customization of different prosthetic arm configurations for various users based on the differing degrees of amputation of each user.

A further advantage of the present invention is the use of non backdriving clutches to preclude movement of the segments due to forces exerted on the prosthetic arm apparatus when not in motion. These non backdriving clutches may be particularly beneficial when the segments of the prosthetic arm apparatus have different strength capacities so that the clutches for specific segments of the prosthetic arm apparatus may lock those segments while other stronger segments are actuated to lift heavy objects. For instance the non backdriving clutch in the shoulder flexion assembly may be used to lock out shoulder movement while the elbow flexion assembly is actuated to lift a heavy object. The non backdriving clutches may also advantageously conserve power since the non backdriving clutches prevent motion without using power. Thus the power to specific segments of the prosthetic arm apparatus may be shut off on a segment by segment basis when not in use since the non backdriving clutches in those segments are locking out motion. Additionally the non backdriving clutches may also save power by allowing power to the entire prosthetic arm apparatus to turned off whenever the arm is not in motion while maintaining the prosthetic arm apparatus in a locked position.

An additional characteristic of the apparatus is that the hand assembly includes independently moving fingers and is capable of completing fine tasks such as pinching grasping non uniform objects and lifting small objects off flat surfaces. Also the tactile feedback sensor provides the user with feedback during use of the prosthetic arm apparatus such as the force of a grip. The apparatus also includes a cosmesis covering on the finger structures which will be discussed in greater detail below providing amongst other things grip for grasping objects. The rigid fingernail shown in which may be included on any of the finger structures provides a backstop for the finger cover to enhance gripping capability. The rigid fingernail also enhances gripping capability by anchoring the finger cover to the finger and allows the user to lift small objects from a surface with the prosthetic arm apparatus .

Referring to wherein like numerals represent like elements in some embodiments the shoulder abductor and the shoulder flexion assembly shown in may be integrated as a single shoulder unit providing both degrees of freedom provided by the shoulder abductor and shoulder flexion assembly of . The single shoulder unit includes a shoulder housing pivotally connected to the harness mount which allows the shoulder unit to be connected to a prosthetic harness not shown as discussed above. In some embodiments the shoulder housing has a smooth outer surface to shape the shoulder unit to be similar to a human arm. The shoulder housing is divided into a flexor portion and an abductor portion which are movable relative to one another. The flexor portion of the shoulder housing includes the humeral interface for connecting the humeral rotator shown in to the shoulder unit . The abductor portion of the shoulder housing is pivotally connected to the harness mount which allows the shoulder unit to interface with a prosthetic harness not shown as discussed above.

Referring to within the housing is a shoulder flexion drive for causing flexion motion of the flexor portion about a shoulder flexion axis and an abduction drive for causing abduction motion of the shoulder housing about an abduction axis . Additionally the housing also defines an electronics compartment for housing control systems and circuits for the integrated shoulder unit .

The shoulder flexion drive in one embodiment includes a shoulder flexion motor having motor shaft for driving the shoulder flexion motor pulley . The shoulder flexion motor pulley drives the shoulder flexion belt which in turn drives the shoulder flexion belt driven pulley . The shoulder flexion belt driven pulley drives the wave generator of a shoulder flexion harmonic drive gearing system the output of which is fixedly interfaced with the abductor portion . Thus as power is transmitted through the shoulder flexion drive from the shoulder flexion motor to the output of the harmonic drive gearing system the flexor portion rotates relative to the abductor portion about the shoulder flexion axis . In some embodiments the motor shaft and the wave generator are both hollow shafts to allow passage of an abductor motor shaft and an abductor screw shaft respectively as will be discussed in greater detail below.

In the exemplary embodiment the abduction drive includes the abductor motor for driving the abductor motor shaft . The abductor motor shaft is configured to drive the abductor belt about its distal end. The abductor belt in turn drives the abductor screw shaft which has an abductor nut threadedly coupled thereto. The abductor nut is connected to the harness mount through a linkage which is in some embodiments a four bar linkage. As power is transmitted through the abductor drive from the abductor motor to the abductor screw shaft the screw shaft rotates. The rotation of the screw shaft causes the abductor nut to displace axially along the screw shaft which causes pivotal motion of the shoulder housing through the linkage about the abduction axis .

Referring to the relative movement between the flexor portion and the abductor portion provides the shoulder unit with a first degree of freedom similar to that of the shoulder flexion joint of . The abductor portion of the shoulder housing is pivotally connected to the harness mount at the abductor joint providing the shoulder unit with the second degree of freedom by allowing the shoulder housing to pivot relative to the harness mount in a similar manner to that discussed above in connection with the shoulder abductor of . Referring to the integrated shoulder unit locates the shoulder flexion axis and the abduction axis relatively close to one another as compared to separate shoulder flexion and shoulder abduction assemblies which provides for more intuitive motion that more closely simulates the movement of a human shoulder.

The shoulder flexion drive and the abduction drive discussed above include coaxial motors and coaxial shafts to minimize the size of the single shoulder unit and to reduce the weight thereof. Thus these exemplary single shoulder unit is beneficial because its weight relative to the separate shoulder abductor and shoulder flexion assembly shown in . Additionally the single shoulder unit provides more narrow housing which allows a more natural anatomical position of the shoulder for a broader range of users and may reduce bumping with the user s residuum during use. This embodiment has an additional benefit of decreasing the weight of the prosthetic. Additionally as seen in both the abduction motor and the shoulder flexion motor may be located in the vicinity of the electronics compartment so the electronics for both the shoulder flexion drive and the abduction drive may be located in the same place which eliminates any need to route wiring through the shoulder unit . This is advantageous since running wires across joints is a failure mode in which the wires may crimp and break when moved. Thus the shoulder unit eliminates this failure mode by eliminating wires running across the joints that could cause failure of the prosthetic arm .

Although the shoulder flexion drive and the abduction drive have been shown in an exemplary configuration it should be understood by those skilled in the art that other drive configurations may also be used to drive the single shoulder unit about the shoulder flexion axis and the abduction axis . For instance referring to the shoulder flexion motor and the abduction motor of the single shoulder unit do not need to be coaxial and they may still each be located within the housing in the vicinity of the electronics compartment . Additionally rather than driving the linkage shown in the worm drive may instead threadably engage an abduction gear coupled to the harness mount to generate pivotal movement about the abduction axis .

Additionally referring now to in various embodiments the integrated shoulder unit may shift the abduction output to change the location of the harness mount not shown to improve mounting location and or to allow for ninety degrees 90 of abduction about the abduction axis without bumping with the residuum not shown . For example the location of the abduction output may be changed by extending the abduction drive with one or more additional shafts gears and or belts.

Referring to the flexion assembly mount may also be shifted away from the harness mount in the non integrated shoulder abductor . Referring to the flexion assembly mount may also include an accommodating slot adapted to accommodate portions of the abductor joint shown in . Referring back to the shifted flexion assembly mount allows the user to orient the shoulder abductor on the prosthetic support apparatus not shown in different orientations while still allowing a range of motion of the shoulder abductor of at least approximately ninety degrees 90 . This may be particularly advantageous since the mounting orientation of the shoulder abductor may vary from user to user which may limit the range of abduction motion with the non shifted flexion assembly mount shown in . Additionally in some embodiments the shifted flexion assembly mount may house a flex sensor plunger for detecting flexion motion of the shoulder flexion assembly .

Referring to in some embodiments of the present invention the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in may include a shoulder free swing system including a housing having a harness mount fixedly secured thereto for attaching to a prosthetic harness. The shoulder free swing system also includes an arm interface rotatably secured within the housing inside a bearing . The arm interface includes mounting holes for connecting the shoulder free swing system to the shoulder unit shown in through the abduction axis and the linkage each shown in .

Referring to within the housing the arm interface includes a substantially circular portion that at its outer circumference engages the bearing . The substantially circular portion includes a plurality of locking ramps formed therein about its inner circumference and may also include one or more magnets disposed at the outer portion of the locking ramps . Within the substantially circular portion the shoulder free swing system includes a plurality of locking plates each of which has a rotation pin secured to the housing about which the locking plate may pivot. The locking plates include locking teeth configured to engage the locking ramps of the arm interface . The locking plates also include cam followers for engaging a cam plate through cam paths . The cam plate is connected to a handle through an actuation plate shown in . The handle extends out of the housing thereby allowing for user actuation thereof.

In operation when the locking teeth of the locking plates are disengaged from the locking ramps of the arm interface as shown in the arm interface is able to freely rotate with respect to the harness mount with its substantially circular portion rotating within the bearing . However when the user moves the handle from the position shown in to the position shown in the actuation plate rotates which in turn rotates the cam plate and causes the locking plates to rotate until the locking teeth engage the locking ramps of the arm interface . The one or more magnets may advantageously aid in the engagement by drawing the locking teeth into the locking ramps and by eliminating backlash. Once the locking teeth are engaged in the locking ramps the arm interface is no longer able to freely move with respect to the harness mount unless the handle is returned to the position shown in . Thus when the locking teeth are engaged the user may operate the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in in substantially the same manner as discussed above.

The slopes of the locking teeth the locking ramps and the cam paths may advantageously be designed such that the locking teeth will automatically become disengaged the from the locking ramps if a torque being transmitted through the shoulder free swing system is exceeds a maximum release torque. For example in some embodiments the locking teeth may disengage the locking ramps if the torque being transmitted through the free swing system exceeds fifty Newton meters. Thus the shoulder free swing system advantageously prevents excessive loading from being transmitted through the prosthetic device without permanently damaging any components of the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in .

Referring to another embodiment of a shoulder free swing system is shown. The shoulder free swing system includes a housing having a harness mount fixedly secured thereto for attaching to a prosthetic harness. The shoulder free swing system also includes an arm interface rotatably secured within the housing . The arm interface includes mounting holes for connecting the shoulder free swing system to the shoulder unit shown in through the abduction axis and the linkage each shown in .

Referring to a portion of the arm interface is rotatably secured in the housing within bearing . The portion has a tapered surface at its inner circumference that contacts a corresponding tapered surface of a friction plate thereby forming a tapered frictional interface between the arm interface and the friction plate . Two or more breakaway locks are loaded between the arm interface and the friction plate each breakaway lock having a spring not shown that tends to separate the friction plate from the arm interface . The friction plate includes ball bearings located within grooves at its circumference that allow linear motion along an axis but resist rotation due to an applied torque. The breakaway locks and the geometry of the tapered surfaces and are configured so that the friction plate and the portion of the arm interface separate at a desired applied torque for example fifty Newton meters thereby allowing the arm interface to slowly rotate while engaging the friction plate at the tapered surface to lower the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in until it loses its potential energy. To manually engage and or disengage the free swing system The handle may be rotated to move a ramp linearly inward or outward along axis thereby reengaging or disengaging respectively the breakaway locks and therefore the free swing system .

Referring now to another embodiment of the wrist rotator is shown for providing improved electronic wiring capability to the prosthetic device. Although shown as the wrist rotator it should be understood by those skilled in the art that a similar configuration may be used for other rotating joints such as the humeral rotator shown in . In this embodiment of the wrist rotator the wrist rotator motor including the wrist rotator motor armature and a driven portion of the wrist rotator motor rotor having wrist rotator magnets disposed thereon and the wrist harmonic drive gearing system including the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system wave generator the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system flexspline and the wrist rotator harmonic drive gearing system circular spline are separated into coaxial side by side units with the wrist rotator motor being proximate to the elbow interface and the harmonic drive gearing system being proximate to the wrist flexion assembly interface . By arranging the wrist rotator motor and the wrist harmonic drive gearing system in the side by side configuration the electronics channel passing through the center of the wrist rotator rotor may be formed large enough to allow electronic wiring to be run internally through the center of the wrist rotator . Referring to the wiring through the prosthetic arm shown in in some embodiments may run through one or more extension springs in particular around the flexion joints such as the elbow flexion assembly and the wrist flexion assembly shown in where internal wiring is difficult or impractical.

Routing the wiring through the center of the wrist rotator eliminates the need for external wiring thereby minimizing any flexing movement experienced by the wiring which can cause wire pinching abrasions and failure. The internal wiring also eliminates the possibility that external wiring will become caught on something and break. Routing the wiring through the one or more extension springs where internal wiring is not practical possible or desired allows for controlled loading of the external wiring and protects the wiring from pinching to reduce wire failure.

Referring to in another embodiment of the wrist flexion assembly the output arm is able to move in flexion relative to the input support structure about a flexion axis and to move in ulnar radial deviation relative to the input support structure about a deviation axis . Thus when the hand assembly shown in is attached to the output arm of the wrist flexion assembly the hand assembly shown in is able to move in both flexion and ulnar radial deviation.

Referring to the wrist flexion assembly includes two wrist motors for controlling the flexion and ulnar radial deviation of the output arm shown in . Each wrist motor drives an input geartrain which in turn drives a wrist worm gear . Each worm gear drives an input gear of a wrist differential . The wrist differential includes a first bevel gears and a second bevel gear that are rotatable about the flexion axis . The first bevel gear and the second bevel gear may be driven by one of the input gears . The wrist differential also includes a differential body rotatably attached about the flexion axis between the first and second bevel gears and . An ulnar radial axle extends from one side of the differential body along the ulnar radial axis and a third bevel gear extends from the differential body on the opposite side thereof. The third bevel gear is rotatable about the ulnar radial axis and meshes with and is driven by the first bevel gear and the second bevel gear .

In operation the user is able to actuate wrist flexion wrist ulnar radial deviation and combinations thereof by actuating the motors in various ways. For example referring to if the motors are driven at the same speed in opposite directions i.e. one is driven clockwise and the other counterclockwise the output arm shown in will move in flexion in one direction about the flexion axis . If the direction of each motor is reversed i.e. from spinning clockwise to counterclockwise and vice versa the output arm shown in will flex in the opposite direction. Similarly referring to if the motors are driven at the same speed in the same direction i.e. both are driven clockwise the output arm shown in will move in ulnar radial deviation in one direction about the deviation axis . If the direction of each motor is reversed i.e. from spinning clockwise to counterclockwise the output arm shown in will move in ulnar radial deviation in the opposite direction about the deviation axis . In addition to varying the direction of rotation of the motors varying the speed of one motor relative to the other will result in a combination of flexion and ulnar radial deviation. Accordingly in this embodiment wrist flexion and ulnar radial deviation may both be controlled simply by varying the direction and speed of the motors .

Although the wrist flexion assembly is described as having a differential drive for imparting wrist flexion and wrist ulnar radial deviation movement to the output arm it should be understood by those skilled in the art that other drives may be used to achieve similar capabilities. For instance referring to the wrist flexion assembly may include a separate wrist flexion geartrain for imparting flexion motion to the output arm about the flexion axis and a separate ulnar radial geartrain for imparting ulnar radial deviation to the output arm about the deviation axis .

Referring to in another embodiment of the present invention a wrist flexion assembly is provided for imparting a combination of both flexion about the flexion axis and ulnar radial deviation about the deviation axis to the hand assembly in a single movement. The wrist flexion assembly includes the input support structure adapted to be connected to the wrist rotator shown in in the same manner as discussed above. The wrist support structure includes a hand interface proximate to the hand assembly for attaching the hand assembly to the wrist support structure . The wrist support structure houses a wrist motor shown in which drives the wrist pivot axle in rotary motion about the wrist flexion axis through an appropriate gear train not shown . The wrist pivot axle includes flattened end portions at each end thereof extending outwardly from the wrist support structure and into the hand interface . Each flattened end portion has two substantially parallel planar surface extending parallel to the wrist flexion axis . The hand interface includes a first cam bearing fixedly secured to the wrist support structure about the flattened end portion of the wrist pivot axle proximate to the thumb structure of the hand assembly . The hand interface also includes a second cam bearing fixedly secured to the wrist support structure about the flattened end portion of the wrist pivot axle proximate to the pinky finger of the hand assembly . Referring to the first cam bearing includes a first cam profile formed therein. Referring to the second cam bearing includes a second cam profile formed therein. Referring back to the hand interface also includes first and second slider blocks coupling the hand assembly to the wrist flexion assembly . The first and second slider blocks each have a proximate end at the hand interface and a distal end near the hand assembly . Each of the first and second slider blocks has a slot formed therein that slidably receives one of the flattened end portions of the wrist pivot axle . The first and second slider blocks include cam followers at their proximate ends that are received within the first cam profile of the first cam bearing and the second cam profile shown in of the second cam bearing . The first and second slider blocks are pivotally coupled to the hand assembly at their distal ends about pivot axes .

In this embodiment the hand assembly may be angled away from the flexion axis about a wrist rotation axis to reduce the motion that the first cam profile and the second cam profile need to produce to achieve the desired combined flexion and ulnar radial deviation movement of the hand assembly . In some embodiments the hand assembly is angled approximately thirty degrees clockwise 30 clockwise assuming left hand user perspective from the flexion axis .

Referring to in operation the wrist motor shown in drives the wrist pivot axle in rotation movement about the flexion axis which provides the hand assembly with flexion movement. Additionally the sliding engagement between the flattened end portions of the wrist pivot axle and the first and second slider blocks causes the first and second slider blocks to pivot about the flexion axis as the wrist pivot axle rotates. As the first and second slider blocks pivot the cam followers shown in follow the first cam profile shown in and the second cam profile shown in which causes the first and second slider blocks to slide relative to the wrist pivot axle . This sliding motion of each of the first and second slider blocks causes the hand assembly to pivot about the pivot axes shown in which results in the ulnar radial deviation movement of the hand assembly . Thus as the wrist motor drives the wrist pivot axle the hand assembly moves from a first position shown in in which the hand is fully flexed and deviated in the ulnar direction to a second position shown in which is a neutral position with respect to flexion movement but includes some degree of ulnar deviation. Then the hand assembly continues to move until it reaches a third position shown in in which the hand assembly is fully extended about the flexion axis and is also fully deviated in the radial direction.

Referring to the first cam profile shown in and the second cam profile shown in provide for movement of the hand assembly shown in along a constrained flexion deviation movement path that includes components of both flexion motion and ulnar radial deviation motion. The constrained flexion deviation movement path is advantageous because the user only needs to think about controlling a single degree of freedom unlike the embodiments discussed above that provide independent wrist flexion movement and ulnar deviation movement. Additionally the constrained flexion deviation movement path is beneficial because it provides for full flexion movement and also provides for nearly full ulnar deviation without requiring full wrist flexion. Thus functionality is particularly beneficial when users use the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in to pick up an object not shown from overhead. The constrained flexion deviation movement path also advantageously allows for approximately twenty four degrees 24 of flexion movement without significant ulnar deviation which allows the user to move an object such as a spoon in flexion motion without spilling its contents. This range of flexion movement with minimal ulnar deviation provided by the constrained flexion deviation movement path may also be beneficial to compensate for offset in situations where the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in is mounted at an offset for example to avoid the user s residuum. Additionally since the hand assembly shown in is angled in the neutral second position shown in pinching of the thumb structure shown in and index finger structure shown in are more in line with the wrist rotation axis which makes various tasks easier for the user such as turning a door knob turning a key or the like. Thus the constrained flexion deviation movement path or other similar paths provided by the wrist flexion assembly shown in provides a variety of advantages over conventional prosthetic devices.

Additionally in some embodiments the flexion axis shown in may be shifted from its neutral position to provide various benefits. For example the flexion axis shown in is shifted approximately thirty degrees 30 from its neutral position. This shift provides a prosthetic hand attached to the wrist flexion assembly shown in with a more natural appearance and may aid in positioning the hand for various tasks such as turning a door knob turning a key or the like.

Although described in terms of constrained flexion deviation movement path shown in it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the first cam profile shown in and the second cam profile shown in may be formed in various configurations to achieve a variety of different constrained movement paths. Additionally although the constrained flexion deviation movement path has been described in connection with the wrist flexion assembly the constrained flexion deviation movement path may also be commanded using the flexion assembly shown in by programming the prosthetic controller to actuate the motors shown in to move the prosthetic hand assembly along the same constrained flexion deviation path .

Referring to in some embodiments a compound motion assembly may be provided to impart two axis motion to the various segments discussed herein. The compound motion assembly includes an input member an output member and an intermediate member . The input member is movably coupled to the intermediate member through a first joint and the output member is movably coupled to the intermediate member through a second joint such that the first joint and the second joint are arranged in series between the input member and the output member with the intermediate member arranged therebetween.

The input member includes an input interface at one end thereof two support posts extending outwardly from the input interface to the first joint and a path member secured to the support posts at the first joint . The input interface has bolt holes or similar connection means to allow the input member to be secured to an adjacent segment of the prosthetic device shown in at the input interface . The support posts are spaced apart from one another at a sufficient distance to accommodate the intermediate member therebetween as will be discussed in greater detail below. The path member forms an arch extending over the intermediate member and connecting one of the support posts to the other support post .

Referring to the path member includes an outer surface and an inner surface that are both substantially spherically shaped to ensure clearance between the path member and the output member and the path member and the intermediate member respectively. The path member also includes a base portion at each end thereof for interfacing with the support posts shown in . Each base portion includes mounting holes for fastening the path member to the support posts shown in . The path member has a fixed path profile formed therethrough and extending along at least a portion of the arch of the path member between the two base portions . The fixed path profile has a curvature that is selected to define the compound motion of the output member relative to the input member as will be discussed in greater detail below. The fixed path profile may be asymmetrical as shown or may instead be symmetrical depending upon the desired compound motion.

Referring back to as discussed above the path member is preferably a separate element fixedly secured to the support posts so that the path member may advantageously be removed and replaced as will be discussed below. However those skilled in the art should understand that the path member may instead be integrally formed as part of the input member .

Referring to the intermediate member of the compound motion assembly is pivotally coupled to the input member at the first joint such that the intermediate member pivots about a first axis of the first joint . The intermediate member is suspended between the support posts and between the input interface and the path member by the first joint to ensure clearance as the intermediate member pivots. The intermediate member is coupled to the output member at the second joint such that the output member is able to pivot about a second axis defined by the second joint . In some embodiments the first joint and the second joint are arranged relative to one another such that the first axis and the second axis are substantially coplanar while in other embodiments the first axis and the second axis may not be substantially coplanar. The intermediate member may have a spherical shape at the end proximate the path member to ensure clearance between the intermediate member and the path member .

Referring to in some embodiments the intermediate member may include a housing enclosing a drive arrangement for actuating the compound motion assembly . The drive arrangement includes a motor coupled to an output shaft through a gear train which may include one or more reduction gears a strain wave gearing system having a circular spline a wave generator a wave generator bearing and a flex spline or any other similar gearing system for transmitting torque from the motor to the output shaft . The output shaft extends outwardly through both sides of the housing and is rotatable supported therein by bearings . Each end of the output shaft is secured to the output member to form the second joint shown in with the second axis being the axis of rotation of the output shaft . Securing the output shaft at each end to the output member provides increased torque to the output member when the drive arrangement is actuated. However in some embodiments the output member may only be secured to the output shaft at one end thereof thereby simplifying the drive arrangement . In these embodiments the other end of the output shaft may support the output member rotatably thereon.

Referring to power to the motor is preferably supplied through a circuit board secured within housing . The circuit board may include a shaft position sensor disposed thereon for monitoring movement of the output shaft . For instance the shaft position sensor may be an optical sensor having an infrared emitter and receiver that transmits infrared light at a reflective cam surface fixed to the output shaft and receives the reflected light signal thereby enabling position detection. The circuit board may also include a temperature sensor not shown for monitoring the temperature of the motor to ensure safe operation. The circuit board may be connected to an external controller not shown for supplying power and control to the motor and for receiving and processing position signals from the shaft position sensor and the temperature sensor not shown . In some embodiments a single cable not shown may be used to connect the circuit board to the controller not shown . This single cable not shown may reduce cable flex as the compound motion assembly actuates thereby reducing cable failure which may result in possible damage to the compound motion assembly or any components connected thereto. Preferably the controller not shown shorts the motor when the compound motion assembly is not being actuated to prevent back driving of the compound motion assembly which may also result in possible damage to the compound motion assembly or any components connected thereto.

Referring back to the output member includes two output arms each secured to one end of the output shaft shown in and extending outwardly past the path member to an output interface . The two output arms are connected by a follower member having an extension that is accommodated within the fixed path profile of the path member . The extension may be for example a cam bearing for slidably engaging the fixed path profile as will be discussed below. Preferably the follower member is removably coupled to the output arms by bolts or the like. The output interface includes bolt holes or similar connection means to allow the output member to be secured to an adjacent segment of the prosthetic device shown in at the output interface . For example referring to the compound motion assembly may be implemented as a prosthetic wrist having the hand assembly mounted to the output interface . Preferably when implemented as a prosthetic wrist the cosmesis shown in would also extend over the compound motion assembly to protect the moving components of the compound motion assembly from contamination due to dirt of the like.

Referring to in operation as the motor shown in is actuated the output shaft shown in turns causing pivotal movement of the output member at the second joint about the second axis . As the output member pivots at the second joint the extension of the output member slides within the fixed path profile . As the extension slides within the fixed path profile the curvature of the fixed path profile moves the extension laterally causing pivotal movement of the intermediate member relative to the input member at the first joint . This pivotal movement also results in pivotal movement of the output member about the first axis of the first joint since the output member is attached to the intermediate member . Thus the compound motion assembly provides compound motion of the output interface relative to the input interface about both the first axis and the second axis using a single motor shown in . Therefore the compound motion assembly requires only a single degree of freedom as a control input which reduces the cognitive burden on the user while still providing a complex output movement.

As discussed above the fixed path profile has a curvature that is selected to define the compound motion of the output member relative to the input member . Referring to the fixed path profile shown in produces compound motion path having pivotal movement about both the first axis and the second axis . It should be understood by those skilled in the art that the fixed path profile may be changed to produce alternative motion paths depending upon the desired movement of the output interface shown in . Thus when the compound motion assembly shown in is used with a prosthetic hand shown in the fixed path profile may be formed to provide the flexion deviation movement path shown in having all of the advantages discussed above in connection therewith. Alternatively the fixed path profile may instead be formed to provide the hand assembly shown in with an alternative movement path having another advantageous path of movement for different user needs.

Referring back to as discussed above the path member is preferably removably attached to the support posts . This advantageously allows the path member to be easily removed from the compound motion assembly and replaced if damaged or if an alternative motion path shown in is desired for the output interface . Thus the compound motion assembly may advantageously be reprogrammed for different uses or different users by the swapping of a single part. Additionally when implemented as a prosthetic wrist as shown in the compound motion assembly may be switched from a right handed to left handed prosthetic wrist and vice versa by changing only the path member and the output arms each of which is advantageously removably attached to the compound motion assembly for easy removal and installation.

Referring to in some embodiments the compound motion assembly and any metal structure secured thereto such as hand assembly shown in may be incorporated into a first antenna for communication between the arm control module ACM stack and an external device such as a control unit for the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in . The compound motion assembly forms a radiating element of the first antenna and a first printed circuitboard of the ACM stack connected to the radiating element provides the remainder of the antenna .

Referring to the compound motion assembly includes a grounding disc at the interface with the ACM stack shown in that electrically isolates the radiating element from the first printed circuitboard . A screw connection passes through the grounding disc to allow the printed circuitboad to be secured thereto with a screw not shown . The screw connection advantageously facilitates both a mechanical connection between the printed circuitboard and the radiating element as well as an electrical connection between the radiating element and the antenna matching network circuit on the printed circuitboard .

Thus referring to the compound motion assembly as well as any metal structure secured thereto provides the radiating element for the first antenna while the rest of the electrical components of the first antenna may be housed on the printed circuitboard . In some embodiments the impedance of the compound motion assembly as well any metal structure secured thereto is matched to that of the transceiver of the printed circuitboard to provide for efficient energy transfer. By providing the entire compound motion assembly and any metal structure attached thereto as the radiating element with its impedance matched to that of the transceiver the first antenna necessarily provides a better and more robust antenna than substantially any antenna that could be housed within the wrist structure itself. Therefore the first antenna may advantageously be implemented as the primary communication channel for the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in transferring critical commands such as commands relating to prosthetic movement to and from the ACM stack shown in . Additionally due to the size of the radiating element the signaling to and from the first antenna is less susceptible to multi path interference which often presents a significant problem for short range communications within buildings due to signal reflections and the like.

Although multi path interference is not a significant problem for the first antenna due to the size of the radiating element it may in some embodiments be a problem for short range communications within buildings. In particular typical short range communication frequencies for example approximately 2.5 GHz do not typically pass through human torsos. Additionally signal reflection within a building may result in signals that are the same except 180 degrees out of phase being received by an antenna which causes the signals randomly and periodically to completely cancel.

Accordingly referring to a second antenna for overcoming the transmission issues associated with in building interference may be formed entirely on a second printed circuitboard of the ACM stack shown in . The second antenna includes a first chip antenna and a second chip antenna mounted on the printed circuitboard at an angle of approximately 90 degrees relative to one another. The first chip antenna and the second chip antenna are connected to a transceiver shown in of the second antenna through a combiner that passively combines signals received by the first and second chip antennas and by taking only the stronger of the two signals. In some embodiments the combiner may be a 90 degree phase combiner while in other embodiments the combiner may include some other phase angle. Additionally although the first and second chip antennas and have been described as being offset approximately 90 degrees relative to one another one skilled in the art should understand that the first and second chip antennas and may be offset at other angles to suit some other need while still achieving substantially the same benefit as that achieved with the 90 degree offset.

The offset angle between the first chip antenna and the second chip antenna advantageously allows the second antenna to mitigate multi path interference by capturing signals in different phase angles. Thus the second antenna may advantageously provide the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in with a secondary antenna for less critical signals where some interference is acceptable. For example the second antenna may be used for calibration of the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in via a personal computer or for downloading data logs from the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in to the personal computer. Thus while some embodiments of the present invention may implement only the first antenna shown in or the second antenna other embodiments may implement both the first and second antennas and to cooperate and provide a more robust communication system.

Although described herein in the context of a prosthetic arm and or prosthetic hand it should be understood that the antennas described herein may be used for communication in various other devices and are not necessarily limited to use in a prosthetic arm prosthetic hand.

Referring to in some embodiments compound motion assembly may include a path member having the fixed path profile formed on each peripheral edge thereof. In this embodiment the output member includes two extensions each extension engaging one of the fixed path profiles . This embodiment operates in substantially the same manner as the embodiments discussed above. However this embodiment may advantageously provide for a more compact compound motion assembly .

Referring back to although described in connection with the detailed embodiments herein it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the compound motion assembly may advantageously be implemented in various industrial and manufacturing environments or the like. Thus the compound motion assembly may provide equipment and or machinery having complex compound motion paths shown in controlled through simplified single degree of freedom inputs. In these embodiments the compound motion assembly may be scaled up or down in size to meet specific or desired requirements. Additionally path members may be swapped in and out to alter the compound motion path shown in . The input interface may advantageously be secured to a floor a table or similar workstation to provide a fixed frame of reference from which the output interface is actuated. Additionally the output interface may advantageously be adapted to accommodate various industrial or manufacturing tools thereon.

Still referring to although the compound motion assembly has been described as having a drive arrangement shown in for actuating the compound motion assembly some embodiments of the present invention may not be powered thereby simplifying the compound motion assembly by eliminating the drive arrangement shown in . For example shows an embodiment of a non powered compound motion assembly . The compound motion assembly may be moved by hand and locked in a desired position through the use of a brake or the like. Additionally some non powered embodiments of the compound motion assembly may include a handle to provide for easier manual actuation of the compound motion assembly .

Referring to and in various embodiments the non backdriving clutch may replace spacers of the input cage with springs between the rollers . The springs push the rollers apart and into contact with both the race and the output polygon which may be an output hex . Thus when a backdriving torque not shown is applied to the output hex to friction lock the rollers between the output hex and the bearing race the rollers are already contacting both the race and the output hex thereby substantially eliminating backlash i.e. a slight rotation of the output polygon when the backdriving torque not shown is applied. Thus the non backdrivable clutch imparts a frictional lock which additional backdriving torque not shown through the output hex will not overcome. Additionally as discussed above in connection with in various embodiments the non backdriving clutch may unlock itself through the application of an input load through the input cage . Variations of this embodiment may include but are not limited to additional or fewer springs additional or fewer rollers or a differently shaped race . For example in various embodiments the relative position of the output hex and the race may be shifted i.e. rather than the hollow circular race with the output polygon inside in various embodiments the clutch may include an outer hollow output polygon surrounding a circular race. Additionally although shown as a coil spring it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the springs may be formed in various configurations and or from a variety of metal or elastomeric materials to provide the force for separating the rollers . In addition the motor may be used to provide additional inertia to reduce back driving of the system.

Referring to in some embodiments the non backdriving clutch may be integrated in combination with a gearbox within a single gearbox housing . In this embodiment the gearbox may include an input for engaging and being driven by a motor not shown and an output that transmits torque from the motor not shown to the associated prosthetic joint or segment. For example the combination gearbox may be used for the two thumb drives the index drive and the MRP drive all shown in so that these drives may be assembled and disassembled as a single unit. This advantageously allows sensitive clutch components to be isolated and protected within a single housing . Additionally this allows the gearbox to built separately with the clutch and gearbox therein and later assembled into the hand assembly shown in as will be discussed below.

Referring to in some embodiments the hand assembly may include a plurality of self contained subassemblies to advantageously make assembly and or disassembly of the hand assembly easier. The self contained subassemblies may be built in parallel and then quickly assembled into the full hand assembly . The self contained subassemblies may include for example the thumb drives the index drive and the MRP drive each of which may include the integrated gearbox and clutch shown in . The self contained subassemblies may also include a first MRP differential and a second MRP differential that may be fully assembled as complete units and easily dropped into the hand assembly . The self contained subassemblies may also include the thumb assembly the thumb differential as well as each of the index finger middle finger ring finger and pinky finger . This advantageously allows the four finger subassemblies to be assembled as complete units and then assembled into the hand assembly and retained therein using a single pin . Thus the plurality of self contained subassemblies may advantageously make assembly and or disassembly of the hand assembly easier and may reduce build time since each self contained subassembly may be completed separately and simultaneously.

Still referring to in some embodiments the index finger structure may include a base portion and a tip portion which are connected in a pivotal connection at a knuckle joint . The base portion connects to the hand assembly through a pin hole and includes a gear segment fixedly connected at its lower end which interfaces with the index drive to allow for controlled movement of the base portion about the pin .

Referring to within the index finger structure is disposed a two part linkage element that includes a non circular pin hole at its lower end and pivot bar at its distal end. The pivot bar connects to the tip portion at an offset location from the knuckle joint . The non circular pin hole is disposed adjacent to the pin hole and allows the pin to pass therethough when the index finger structure is assembled to the hand assembly with a corresponding non circular portion shown in of the pin engaging the non circular pin hole . In operation when actuated the index drive drives the base portion of the index finger structure through the gear segment . As the base portion moves the two part linkage remains grounded due to contact between the non circular pin hole with the non circular portion of the pin . This in turn causes the pivot bar to move the tip portion relative to the base portion thereby achieving the movement of the index structure that is kinematically deterministic. Since the grounding of the two part linkage is achieved through insertion of the pin it may advantageously be accomplished at essentially any point during assembly of the hand assembly . Additionally it also advantageously allows the index structure to be replaced without requiring disassembly of the hand assembly or a substantial part thereof.

Referring to an embodiment for output load sensing through a drive having a worm gear such as the shoulder abduction drive of is shown. Including one or more worm gears in the drive is beneficial because the worm gear may itself prevent backdriving. The worm gear may be arranged on a splined shaft between a first spring and a second spring . The splined shaft includes a plurality of splines arranged axially around the surface of the splined shaft and a shaft input portion which may be rotated directly by a motor not shown or through a gear train or the like. The worm gear is tubular and has an interior surface designed to slidably interface with the splines of the splined shaft such that the worm gear may slide axially along the surface of the splined shaft . The worm gear meshes with an output gear such that when the splined shaft is caused to rotate through its shaft input portion the splined shaft rotatably drives the worm gear through the splines which in turn drives the output gear . When a load not shown is applied to the drive through the output gear for example if the user is lifting an object the load will generate a torque T at the output gear . Although the torque T will not cause the worm gear to rotate the torque T may cause the worm gear to displace axially along the splined shaft compressing one of the first spring or the second spring depending upon the direction of displacement. Thus by designing the drive system with the first spring and the second spring of known spring constants the compliance i.e. the displacement of the worm gear may be measured to estimate the output load not shown . This drive system for output load sensing is particularly beneficial since the compliance is still present or active while the worm gear is not being rotated but is instead acting as a non backdriving element.

The prevention of backdriving with the various systems discussed above is beneficial because it allows the user to maintain a position of the prosthetic arm shown in while under a load not shown . However referring to in some embodiments it may be desirable to provide the various arm segments with break away mechanisms that will separate the drive output from the drive input to prevent damage to the drive system if the load becomes too large. The break away mechanism may include an input shaft an output shaft and two break away spacers that are held in contact with the input shaft and output shaft by a compression member . The input shaft and the output shaft each include a shaft body and a torque transmission tab extending axially outward from the shaft body between the break away spacers . The compression element member surrounds the break away spacers and sandwiches the torque transmission tabs therebetween. The compression member may be for example a snap ring a round metal ring an o ring multiple o rings a coil spring or the like. The compression member applies a preset compressive force to the breakaway spacers .

In operation the input shaft of the break away mechanism is rotated by a motor not shown or the like to generate a desired movement of the prosthetic arm shown in . Thus the torque transmission tab of the input shaft rotates and transmits the rotation through the break away spacers to the torque transmission tab of the output shaft as long as the torque required to cause rotation of the torque transmission tab of the output shaft is not large enough to overcome the preset compressive force provided by the compression member . If the torque is large enough to overcome the preset compressive force the torque transmission tab will push the break away spacers apart and the torque transmission tab will rotate between the break away spacers without transmitting torque therethrough. Thus the break away mechanism may prevent torque above a preset level from being transmitted through the drive system where it can damage the drive system components. Accordingly the break away mechanism may limit the amount of torque applied to sensitive parts of the various drive systems of the prosthetic arm shown in and may therefore impart a longer lifespan on the prosthetic arm.

Referring to another embodiment of a breakaway mechanism includes an input ring and an output ring connected by a detent ring . The breakaway mechanism may be connected between two prosthetic arm segments for example the input ring may be connected to the shoulder unit shown in and the output ring may be connected to the humeral rotator shown in . Referring to in some embodiments the input ring output ring and the detent ring each includes an alignment marker on its outer surface to indicate proper positioning of the breakaway mechanism .

Referring to the output ring includes a central hub having an outer surface with a plurality of spring fingers radiating therefrom. Each spring finger has a first detent and a second detent along its length and a pin at its distal end . The input ring includes a plurality of detents around the circumference of its inner surface within which the pins of the spring fingers may engage as will be discussed in greater detail below. The detent ring includes a plurality of detent pins located partway between the inner surface of the input ring and the outer surface of the output ring . The detent pins engage the first detents of the spring fingers during normal operation of the breakaway mechanism i.e. when torque is being transmitted through the breakaway mechanism .

However referring to if an overtorque situation occurs the pins at the distal ends of the spring fingers will pop out of the ring detents so that the torque will not be transmitted back to the input ring . Additionally referring to the overtorque situation will also cause the alignment markers to move out of alignment. The user may then realign the alignment markers to transmit torque through the breakaway mechanism .

Referring to the user may also intentionally disengage the torque transmission by moving the alignment marker on the detent ring up to engage the breakaway mechanism in freeswing. As seen in this configuration entirely disengages the spring fingers from the input ring thereby allowing the output ring to rotate freely without driving the upstream components through the input ring . Thus this embodiment of the breakaway mechanism is advantageous because it also allows for the user to engage freeswing of the prosthetic arm shown in .

These break away mechanisms discussed above are beneficial because they prevent damage to the prosthetic arm apparatus and increase user safety under high loading situations. Additionally the break away mechanisms are advantageous in that once the break away mechanisms break under high loading they may be reset by the user without the need to see a prosthetic technician.

As discussed above various embodiments of the prosthetic arm shown in include feedback mechanisms for compliance and position sensing such as potentiometer shown in . Referring now to in some embodiments the prosthetic arm shown in may include other feedback mechanisms for example a magnetic position sensor . In these embodiments at least one magnetic strip may be attached about the circumference of an inner surface of a rotatable drive component . The magnetic strip includes a plurality of magnets of known length L arranged in series each having a north pole N and a south pole S. Thus the magnetic strip generates a magnetic field having a repeating pattern of alternating north poles N and south poles S. The magnetic position sensor is arranged to detect this magnetic field generated by the magnetic strip . In operation the rotatable drive component rotates which causes the magnetic strip to rotate thereby moving the portion of the magnetic strip being detected by the magnetic position sensor . The magnetic position sensor detects this change in the magnetic field as the magnetic strip rotates from each north pole N to each south pole S and vice versa. Since the length L of each magnet is known the detected changes in the magnetic field between each north pole N and or each south pole S may be converted into the distance of rotational movement of the rotatable drive component . Thus the change in position of the rotatable drive component may be detected. The magnetic position sensor is also advantageous because it does not contact the rotating drive component and therefore will not experience contact wear due to the rotation of the rotatable drive component .

Referring to in some embodiments two magnetic position sensors may be used to detect the magnetic fields generated by the first magnetic strip and a second magnetic strip arranged next to each other around the circumference of the inner surface of a rotatable drive component . A length L of each magnet of the second magnetic strip is in some embodiments different than the length L of the magnets of the first magnetic strip . This difference in length allows for the magnetic position sensors to sense unique combinations of magnetic field values from the first magnetic strip and the second magnetic strip over the circumference of the inner surface . Each unique magnetic field value may correspond to a position of the drive component and therefore absolute position of the drive component may be detected by the two magnetic position sensors .

In practice the hand assembly shown in and particularly the fingers of the hand assembly i.e. the thumb structure index finger structure middle finger ring finger and pinky finger all shown in come into contact with objects frequently and therefore may be susceptible to wear and damage. Thus referring to it may be desirable for the prosthetic hand assembly to include removable fingers . In this embodiment of the prosthetic hand assembly the removable fingers may be removed to allow for easier replacement of damaged fingers and also to allow for easily customizable or tailored finger lengths for different user.

Each removable finger is driven in substantially the same manner as the fingers of the previously discussed embodiments. However the removable fingers pivot about a common finger shaft rather than the individual pivot axles discussed in connection with . In some embodiments end caps cover each end of the common finger shaft to prevent dirt or other contaminants from getting into the gear trains of the hand assembly and also to ensure that the common finger shaft does not become axially displaced unintentionally. In operation either end cap may be removed from the hand assembly and the common finger shaft may be extracted to free the removable fingers . Each finger may then be removed and replaced individually as required.

As discussed above the fingers of the hand assembly come into contact with objects frequently and are therefore susceptible to wear. Thus referring to some embodiments of the present invention may include a cosmesis for covering the hand assembly to reduce wear of the hand assembly and the fingers in particular. The cosmesis may be formed from silicone or a similar material such as a urethane to improve the grip capabilities of the hand assembly to assist with the various grasping and pinch functions of the hand thereby providing additional functionality.

In use the cosmesis may wear more quickly around the fingers and the thumb structure . Therefore in some embodiments the cosmesis may separate into two or more sections to allow high wear areas to be replaced more frequently than low wear areas. For instance referring to in some embodiments the cosmesis includes a separate palm section covering the hand support finger sections covering each finger and a thumb section covering the thumb structure . Thus the finger sections and thumb section may each be replaced separately from the palm section . Although shown as having separate finger sections and thumb section in various embodiments the cosmesis may also include only two sections for example the finger sections and the thumb section may be combined into one section and the hand support may be covered by the separate palm section .

Referring to in some embodiments of the present invention the fingers may be provided with geometric features such as slots in their outer surfaces that may accept corresponding geometric interlocks provided on the inner surface of the cosmesis . This interlocking geometry may resist shear loads on the cosmesis thereby preventing the cosmesis from slipping off of the fingers . Additionally with respect to the hand cosmesis fine pinch and other functions may require a structural backing at the tips of the fingers and thumb structure . Therefore in some embodiments the geometric features of the fingers and thumb structure may each include a fingernail apparatus shown in . The fingernail apparatus shown in interacts with the finger and thumb structure cosmesis to anchor the cosmesis of the fingers and thumb structure thereby mitigating and or preventing the cosmesis from rolling over on the tips of the fingers and thumb structure .

Referring to the palm section of the cosmesis may also be formed to resist slippage due to shear loads. For instance a palm side of the cosmesis may be formed with a tacky inner surface . In some embodiments the material of the cosmesis itself will provide the tacky inner surface for example silicone or a urethane material may be naturally tacky. In other embodiments a tacky surface coating may be applied to the cosmesis to form the tacky inner surface . Thus as objects being held are pressed against the palm side of the cosmesis the tacky inner surface is pressed against the hand support shown in thereby resisting slippage. In some embodiments a back side of the cosmesis is formed with a slippery inner surface to facilitate installation and removal of the cosmesis . For example the slippery inner surface may be formed by applying a surface modifying coating to the cosmesis or applying a surface texture to the cosmesis . For example to install the cosmesis onto the hand support shown in the cosmesis may be pulled down and away from the palm so that the slippery inner surface of the back side slides along the hand support while the tacky inner surface of the palm side is pulled away from the hand support . Thus the cosmesis may be easily slid onto the hand support . To remove the cosmesis the palm side may again be pulled away from the hand support while the cosmesis is pulled toward the fingers thereby allowing the cosmesis to slide easily off the hand support .

Referring to in some embodiments the cosmesis may include corrugations having grooves wherein a thickness of the material forming the cosmesis is substantially less than the thickness of material of the rest of the cosmesis . The corrugations and grooves may advantageously be positioned in locations where the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in moves and flexes to allow the cosmesis to flex along with the arm movement without bunching wrinkling tearing or the like. Additionally although the corrugations are shown only in a wrist area for simplicity it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the corrugations may be positioned in other locations where substantial movement is anticipated such as the fingers. In some embodiments the cosmesis may also include raised ridges having a material thickness that is greater than substantially the rest of the cosmesis to provide improved grip in desired regions such as at the fingertips of the cosmesis .

Referring to in some embodiments the fingers may include one or more additional functions. For example one or more fingers may include a thermal sensor disposed thereon to determine the temperature of an object not shown brought into contact with the finger . The signal from the sensor may be transmitted to a controller not shown for the prosthetic arm and displayed to the user as will be discussed in greater detail below. In some embodiments temperature detection may be provided by forming the cosmesis or a portion thereof from a temperature sensitive polymer such as a polymer with a thermochromic color changing additive therein or thermochromic liquid crystal that allows a variety of colors to be shown as temperature changes which will change color depending upon the temperature of the cosmesis . For example the cosmesis may change from one color to another if a present temperature is exceeded. This temperature sensing functionality may be used to determine the temperature of an object not shown in the hand and to warn the user of a high temperature or low temperature condition to mitigate the threat of burns or other harm.

Referring to another embodiment of the thumb structure is shown for providing thumb compliance detection. The thumb structure includes a thumb base and a thumb tip which are each substantially rigid and are joined together by an elastomeric spring . In some embodiments the interface between the thumb tip and the elastomeric spring includes one or more alignment features to ensure proper alignment of the thumb tip with the elastomeric spring . Similarly the interface between the thumb base and the elastomeric spring also includes one or more alignment features to ensure proper alignment of the thumb base and the elastomeric spring .

Referring to within the thumb structure the thumb base includes a pivotal interface tube extending upward into a central bore of the elastomeric spring . A pivot shaft having a magnet disposed at its lower end is arranged with the pivotal interface tube and extends upwardly therefrom into a central bore in the thumb tip of substantially the same diameter as the pivot shaft . Below the pivot shaft within the thumb base is arranged a Hall effect sensor on a sensor bracket . The sensor bracket includes a wire channel to facilitate wiring the Hall effect sensor to the prosthetic control circuits not shown . Referring to in operation when a load L is applied to the thumb tip the elastomeric spring compresses on the side of the thumb structure opposite the applied load L allowing the thumb tip to tilt. The tilt of the thumb tip causes a corresponding tilt of the pivot shaft within the pivotal interface tube thereby displacing the magnet disposed on the lower end of the pivot shaft . The Hall effect sensor detects this displacement of the magnet which can be correlated to the applied load L on the thumb tip . By detecting the various loads on the thumb structure the user may ensure that objects are not gripped so hard that they could break and that the thumb is not subjected to loads that could cause failure of the thumb structure .

Referring to wherein like numerals represent like elements another embodiment of the thumb structure is shown for providing thumb compliance detection. In this embodiment a helical spring replaces the elastomeric spring shown in between the thumb base and the thumb tip . Additionally a collar is disposed between the helical spring and the pivot shaft with a small clearance between a ball of the pivot shaft and the collar . As with the previous embodiments the pivot shaft has magnet disposed at its lower end and extends upwardly therefrom into a central bore in the thumb tip and is secured therein. Below the pivot shaft within the thumb base is arranged sensor for detecting movement of the magnet . In operation when a load L is applied to the thumb tip the ball contacts the collar and the helical spring compresses on the side of the thumb structure opposite the applied load L allowing the thumb tip to tilt about the center of the ball . The tilt of the thumb tip causes a corresponding tilt of the pivot shaft thereby displacing the magnet disposed on the lower end of the pivot shaft . The sensor detects this displacement of the magnet which can be correlated to the applied load L on the thumb tip . By detecting the various loads on the thumb structure the user may advantageously ensure that objects are not gripped so hard that they could break and that the thumb is not subjected to loads that could cause failure of the thumb structure .

Referring to in some embodiments the humeral rotator may include a yolk rather than the cantilever mounting interface shown in for interfacing with the elbow flexion assembly . The yolk interfaces with a first side and a second side of the elbow flexion assembly to provide increased strength to the interface when compared to the cantilever mounting interface shown in which only interfaces with one side of the elbow flexion assembly .

Referring to in some embodiments of the present invention the prosthetic arm may be provided with a status indicator . In some embodiments the status indicator may include but is not limited to one or more LEDs arranged on the hand assembly . However in other embodiments the one or more LEDs may be located in various locations. The one or more LEDs may be configured to communicate a variety of information to the user including but not limited to one or more of the following battery power level an operational mode of the prosthetic device faults alarms alerts messages and or the like. Additionally although shown as one or more LEDs the status indicator may in other embodiments include a digital display and or user interface which may be arranged on the prosthetic device built into the prosthetic device and or may be a separate display unit for example as shown in as and in some embodiments may be a unit worn similarly to a wrist watch or bracelet as shown in as . However in other embodiments the unit may be a portable unit that may be worn or carried near the user for example but not limited to clipped on clothing belt and or attached to the user and or carried in a pocket either in the user s clothing and or in a separate bag and or pack. In some embodiments the unit may be a PDA personal data assistant smart phone or other electronic device configured to communicate with the prosthetic device by way of a wireless communications protocol including but not limited to RF and Bluetooth .

Thus in some embodiments it may be desirable to include both a separate display unit and one or more LEDs where for example but not limited to the one or more LEDs may be used to display one or more critical piece of information to the user while the separate display unit may provide a greater variety of information in more detail.

Referring to an embodiment of the wrist rotator having the ACM stack housed therein is shown. The wrist rotator includes a housing having an input interface such as the elbow interface shown in and an output interface such as the wrist flexion assembly interface shown in at either end thereof. The housing also includes a user interface formed therein and in communication with the ACM stack . The ACM stack controls operation of each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in including the wrist rotator and therefore integrating the ACM stack into the wrist rotator may be advantageous since the wrist rotator is likely to be present in prosthetic arms for essentially all types of amputees whereas other segments may not be present such as in a prosthetic arm apparatus for a transradial amputee.

The user interface may include the status indicator for communicating status information of the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in from the ACM stack to the user. The user interface may also include one or more user inputs such as buttons switches dials or the like for changing and or customizing the status information that is conveyed from the ACM stack through the status indicator .

The status indicator may include one or more LEDs configured to communicate the status information from the ACM stack to the user through illumination of the LEDs . For instance specific information may be communicated to the user through simple illumination flashing patterns color patterns and or various combinations thereof. The LEDs may include a battery alert for alerting the user of a low power condition. Similarly the LEDs may include a system alert for alerting the user of a system fault condition. The LEDs may include a mode indicator for example to indicate whether the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in is in mode for controlling arm movement or a mode for controlling hand movement. Additionally the LEDs may include an array of LEDs for providing specific information to the user on the current operational mode of the prosthetic device. For instance when in a hand control mode each LED in the array may represent a different sub control mode of the prosthetic device shown in such as different grip movements. In some embodiments LEDs may be arranged at multiple locations around the circumference of the wrist rotator so that at least some of the LEDs remain visible to the user as the prosthetic arm shown in moves during operation.

Preferably the user interface is formed from a rubberized material to allow actuation of the one or more user inputs therethrough and to prevent contaminants such as dirt dust water and the like from contacting and damaging the wrist rotator . Additionally the rubberized material preferably includes one or more translucent portions in the region of the status indicator for allowing light from the LEDs to pass therethrough and may also include one or more symbols printed on the translucent portions for conveying status information to the user.

Referring to as discussed above the wrist rotator having the ACM stack and the user interface is preferably a modular unit that may connect either to a transradial mount for a transradial amputee or the elbow flexion assembly shown in for a transhumeral or shoulder disarticulated amputees. To facilitate the connection the input interface includes a captive spanner screw having male threads an alignment pin and one or more torque transmission pins . The transradial mount or the elbow flexion assembly shown in includes female threads for engaging the male threads of the captive spanner screw a left hand alignment hole a right hand alignment hole and one or more torque transmission holes .

To assemble the wrist rotator to the transradial mount or the elbow flexion assembly shown in power and communication wiring connections are first made between the parts. Then the alignment pin of the wrist rotator is registered in either the left hand alignment hole or the right hand alignment hole of the transradial mount or the elbow flexion assembly shown in depending upon whether the prosthetic arm apparatus shown in is to be a left handed or right handed prosthesis respectively. A spanner wrench may then be used to engage the spanner screw and thread the male threads of the spanner screw into the female threads of the transradial mount or the elbow flexion assembly shown in . As the male threads engage the female threads the torque transmission pins engage the torque transmission holes until the spanner screw is fully seated. This connection advantageously provides a universal interface between the wrist rotator and either the transradial mount or the elbow flexion assembly shown in . The connection is also advantageously universal for both left handed and right handed prosthetic devices. For example the using the right hand alignment hole provides for a desired range of motion for a right handed prosthetic device such as two hundred seventy degrees 270 . Using the left hand alignment hole provides a range of motion for a left handed prosthetic device that is the mirror opposite of the range of motion for the right handed prosthetic device for example two hundred seventy degrees 270 in the opposite direction of rotation. Additionally when using either the left hand alignment hole or the right hand alignment hole in the connection the user interface is advantageously maintained in the view of the user.

Referring back to in some embodiments of the present invention the prosthetic arm may be provided with an emergency switch which may turn off power to the system and thus engage the various brakes and or clutches in the prosthetic arm . In some embodiments the emergency switch is a chin switch that the user may activate with their chin.

In some embodiments another safety mechanism of the prosthetic arm may include an auto release mechanism for manually opening a grip of the prosthetic hand . The auto release mechanism may be a button switch or the like located on the back of the prosthetic hand which when actuated causes the prosthetic hand to open. Preferably the auto release mechanism is located under the cosmesis shown in and actuated therethrough to prevent contaminants such as dirt dust water and the like from contacting and damaging the auto release mechanism . The auto release mechanism is electrically coupled to a power source not shown of the prosthetic arm such as a battery and to motor control circuits such as the hand control module circuit boards shown in that control actuation of the motors within the prosthetic hand such as the two thumb drives the index drive and the MRP drive all shown in . Preferably the auto release mechanism is connected to the motor control circuits for the two thumb drives the index drive and the MRP drive all shown in in parallel to provide redundancy to the auto release mechanism so that even if one circuit fails the others will still cause the associated prosthetic fingers to open. In some embodiments additional redundancy may be provided to the auto release mechanism by connecting the auto release mechanism to the motor control circuit boards through at least two switches with only one switch being required to cause the prosthetic hand to open.

In operation the user may depress the auto release mechanism which in turn actuates the switch or switches on the hand control module circuit boards . Actuation of the switch or switches causes power to be supplied from the power source not shown to the two thumb drives the index drive and the MRP drive all shown in through the hand control module circuit boards which causes the prosthetic hand to open. The speed at which the prosthetic hand opens may be tuned within the hand control module circuit boards and is preferably less than approximately five 5 seconds. In some embodiments the speed at which the prosthetic hand opens may even more preferably be set to less than approximately three 3 seconds. Thus the user may advantageously actuate the auto release mechanism to release the grip of the prosthetic hand if it is closed and or becomes stuck in hazardous and or harmful situations for example if the grip becomes stuck around a car door handle a bus handle while shaking a child s hand or any other similar situation.

Although the auto release mechanism has been described as being electrically coupled to the power source not shown of the prosthetic arm and to the hand control module circuit boards in other embodiments the auto release mechanism may include a separate power source not shown and or separate motor control circuits not shown located within the prosthetic hand to provide additional redundancy. Additionally in other embodiments the auto release mechanism may be a mechanical system rather than an electrical system for example the auto release mechanism may be a crank or the like for manually opening the prosthetic hand .

The prosthetic arm apparatus of the present invention has a variety of benefits over conventional prosthetic devices such as the modularity of each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus as discussed above which allows the formation of customized prosthetic devices for different users. In particular each segment of the prosthetic arm apparatus contains all of the actuators for that segment so that it may be removed as a separate unit. For instance the hand assembly includes all of the finger actuators therein allowing it to be connected and or removed as a separate unit. Additionally various degrees of freedom of the hand assembly are particularly beneficial because they allow the formation of various grasps or grips.

Although the invention has been described in the context of a prosthetic arm an apparatus according to the elements of this invention could be used in other robotic tools such as those used in manufacturing and or teleoperations where an operator is not connected directly to the controlled device. For example the prosthetic arm apparatus may be used for teleoperation in hazardous environments and or hazardous activities for the detonation of explosive devices or the like. In these environments the prosthetic arm apparatus may provide a more intuitive interface for the user since the user will already be familiar with the natural movements of the arm which may make control translation of the prosthetic arm apparatus easier.

Referring now also to in some embodiments a portion of the prosthetic arm attaches to a socket or other device to attach the prosthesis to a user. In some embodiments the socket may be made using a multistep procedure including but not limited to casting and or creating the socket which may include attaching a device that connects the socket to the prosthesis. In some embodiments it may be desirable to use a method of casting creating the socket that allows for flexibility and or options in the size and shape of the socket. This may be desirable for many reasons including but not limited to fitting the socket to the user such that the socket is comfortable and conforms with the user s body.

Referring still to in some embodiments a frame or socket preparation device which may herein be referred to as a frame as shown may be used in creating the socket. The frame may include a plurality of legs or protrusions e.g. seven 7 to provide for flexibility in creating the socket. In some embodiments the number of legs may be seven 7 in other embodiments the number of legs may be more than 7 and in some embodiments the number of legs may be less than seven. In practice a prosthetist or other may choose the appropriate legs for the fit desired and may bend the chosen legs e.g. one or more of to an appropriate shape and mount the legs to a socket. Following the prosthetist or other may remove e.g. cut off any unnecessary unused legs. Thus in some embodiments the frame allows for a custom fit to the user. In some embodiments the frame may be made from aluminum or another material that provides for the desired result for example in some embodiments the material may be selected based on the weight to strength ratio as well as its ability to bend without cracking or breaking. In some embodiments the frame may be made from 5052 aluminum however in other embodiments different grades of aluminum and or different materials e.g. metals plastics composites etc may be used.

Still referring to the frame includes a center portion at which each leg attaches. The center portion is the portion that will attach to a prosthetic mounting device not shown shown in .

Referring now also to the prosthetic mounting device may be attached to the frame. The frame center portion includes a series of holes on the outside and a series 3 in the embodiment shown of openings on the inside and a large opening in the center. In some embodiments the numbers of holes and or openings may be greater than or less than the numbers shown on the figures. These openings and holes on the frame correspond to openings and holes on the prosthetic mounting device. As shown in the prosthetic mounting device attaches to the frame and to the shoulder portion of the prosthesis. The arrangements of both the holes and openings on the frame and the holes and openings on the prosthetic mounting device may be beneficial for various reasons including but not limited to the ability to orientate the frame with respect to the prosthetic mounting device and the prosthesis which may provide greater flexibility for custom fitting the socket. In some embodiments rotation of the frame with respect to the prosthetic mounting device provides 10 degree increments of rotation. In other embodiments the spacing of the various holes and openings may vary and or the number and or the location of holes and openings may vary to provide various degrees of increments.

Referring now again to the some embodiments of the prosthetic mounting device are designed to be bonded into the socket. In various embodiments there is a groove and anti rotation features to connect e.g. securely connect to the socket. Using the frame to position the prosthetic mounting device in the appropriate location prior to creating the final socket the prosthetic mounting device may be beneficial for many reasons including but not limited to providing orientation for the socket.

In some embodiments screws on the outside of the prosthetic mounting device function as pins to prevent rotation while bolts hold secure the prosthetic mounting device to the prosthesis.

In some embodiments once the prosthetic mounting device is attached to the prosthesis for example as shown in the prosthesis may be removed and the prosthetist may build up the socket. Finally in some embodiments the frame may be removed.

There are many advantages to the frame embodiments. These include but are not limited to one or more of the following. The frame may be used to ensure the proper location of the prosthetic mounting device so that the socket may be registered. Also the frame allows a prosthetist to position the mounting device and tweak adjust the prosthetic mounting device position until the prosthesis is in the desired anatomical position with respect to the intended user.

Referring now to various views of a shoulder flexor abductor are shown. In some embodiments the shoulder may include a feedback flexor position sensor which may include a spiral surface that ensures that for any position of the flexor there will be a different radius which may be determined. Thus in some embodiments the shoulder may include a potentiometer which may in some embodiments be similar to the potentiometers described above. A turning shaft is connected to a potentiometer using a turning arm and a preload spring keeps the turning arm preloaded in one direction. As the turning shaft spins with movement of the shoulder the flexor moves the spiral and the radius changes. During rotation the resistance of the potentiometer is changed which may be correlated with a position.

Referring also to in some embodiments the shoulder may also include a braking mechanism which in some embodiments may be a band brake including a brake band which stops both the flexor brake rotor and abductor brake rotor . In some embodiments the braking mechanism includes a band brake that is opened and closed by the brake motor and in some embodiments a potentiometer may be used to determine whether the braking mechanism is engaged or disengaged by measuring the brake shaft angle. An adjustment block may be used to properly position the brake band so the correct tension is achieved when the braking mechanism is engaged and in some embodiments the potentiometer may be used for brake motor control to engage and disengage the braking mechanism which may be desirable for many reasons including but not limited to avoiding wearing out the rotors. In some embodiments a current threshold read by motor drive electronics may be determined when a proper tension is achieved in the brake band .

In some embodiments the system may engage the braking mechanism of the shoulder and other joints with brakes in the system when the system determines that the motors do not need to turn thus in some embodiments the braking mechanism may be engaged to preserve the battery.

The shoulder brake may be closed or open and does not require power to maintain the state whether open or closed . Thus the brake only requires power to change the state from engaged to disengaged and vice versa.

Referring now to another embodiment of the abductor potentiometer sensor system is shown. The abductor roller screw shaft turns which drives a nut which opens the linkages which pivots the shoulder about the abductor pivot pin. The position of the abductor roller screw is determined using the abductor potentiometer sensor . On the abductor roller screw shaft is a worm gear . The worm gear mates with a worm wheel . The worm wheel is mounted to the abductor potentiometer sensor . In some embodiments this arrangement may be desirable beneficial for many reasons including but not limited to in some embodiments the abductor roller screw may experience multiple rotations to a single rotation of the output shaft for example in some embodiments the abductor roller screw may experience 16 rotations to a single rotation of the output shaft however in various other embodiments the number of rotations may be greater than or less than 16. Thus in these embodiments reading the position of the abductor roller screw directly may not yield the necessary information. Therefore in various embodiments the rotations of the abductor roller screw are geared down i.e. the multiple rotations e.g. 16 rotations are geared down by a factor e.g. 20 to 1 . The gear down factor is determined in some embodiments by the gears used in the system through the various embodiments. Thus the gear down reads the rotation as less than 1 rotation e.g. of a rotation or 288 degrees however in various other embodiments this gear down factor may vary. Thus the abductor potentiometer sensor may in some embodiments only measure less than a full rotation. Therefore the abductor potentiometer sensor is reading a position intermediate within the power train therefore it is geared it down. There are many advantages to this system including but not limited to the sensor measurement may occur on the same side as the electronics. Therefore elimination and or minimizing the number of wire wires over the moving joint.

Referring now to various views of the wrist are shown including views including one embodiment of a wrist rotator sensor. The wrist rotator sensor uses a potentiometer which in some embodiments is a variable resistance potentiometer and as a plunger is moved around the resistance is changed. In some embodiments the wrist rotator sensor is integrated directly onto the circuit board which may be desirable for many reasons including but not limited to that the wrist rotator sensor is a single unit and may be dropped into the wrist rotator. In some embodiments the design of the wrist rotator sensor includes alignment portions features which may be desirable for many reasons including but not limited to in manufacture where in some embodiments the wrist rotator sensor may not be able to be assembled into the wrist unless aligned properly.

Also in some embodiment the wrist rotator sensor includes where the plunger is integrated into the sensor assembly and the plunger flexor spring pushes the plunger onto the sensor

Referring now also to in some embodiments the wrist also includes an external position sensor potentiometer for the wrist flexion joint. In some embodiments the external position sensor includes gears including a sector gear a potentiometer gear which including a potentiometer provide variable resistance based on position. In some embodiments the external position sensor also includes alignment features on the output shaft sector gear and potentiometer gear to ensure the arrangement alignment is correct. This sensor may be desirable for many reasons including but not limited to that the positioning of the wrist is smooth reliable and accurate and consistent and less sensitive to temperature. This sensor may also be desirable for its ability to maintain hold a position. The sensor may also be desirable for it requires a small amount of power only when resistance reading and therefore may improve battery life. In various embodiments the sensor is a passive sensor i.e. the sensor does not require being powered up for use. The sensor is a resisting element.

In various embodiments a system and method for battery charging is included. In various embodiments a system may include at least one internal battery and at least one external battery. However in some embodiments the system may include at least one external battery but no internal battery. In still other embodiments the various embodiments of the system may include one or more external batteries. In various embodiments the internal battery is located inside a device which in some embodiments may include a prosthetic device. The at least one internal battery in some embodiments may not be readily accessible and or directly accessible by a user. For example in some embodiments the at least one internal battery may be located in the device such that the battery housing is waterproof and or protected from the outer environment and therefore not accessible unless a plate and or a battery cap and or other is first removed. In various embodiments the at least one internal battery may be a rechargeable battery and therefore in some embodiments it may be desirable to recharge the battery from an external source rather than removing the not readily available internal battery to recharge the internal battery. In some embodiments where the at least one internal battery may be readily accessible it may be desirable to recharge the internal battery from at least one external source. In some embodiments the at least one external source may include but is not limited to one or more of the following at least one external battery and or at least one AC adapter. In some embodiments the at least one AC adapter may be a medical grade AC adapter for example a 60 watt XP Power AC adapter model number AFM60 made by XP Power Limited Singapore. In some embodiments the AC adapter may be 24 VDC. However in various embodiments a different AC adapter or other adapter or outside charging device may be used. In some embodiments the at least one AC adapter may be connected to the device to charge the at least one internal battery by connection to a charging port. In some embodiments where the device is a prosthetic arm device the charging port may be located anywhere on the device including but not limited to on the forearm.

In some embodiments the internal battery may be a 4S1P lithium ion rechargeable 18650 cells battery for a nominal voltage of 14.8 VDC having 2 amp hours of capacity. However in various other embodiments the internal battery may be a larger or smaller voltage with more or less capacity. In some embodiments the at least one internal battery may include a SMBus gas gauge IC and protection circuitry.

In some embodiments the system may include no external batteries. However in some embodiments the system may include at least one external battery. In some embodiments the at least one external battery may be used to power a device for example but not limited to a prosthetic device. In some embodiments the at least one external battery may be used to recharge an internal battery in a device. For example in some embodiments the at least one external battery may be used to recharge a non removable internal battery in a device. In some embodiments the at least one external battery may be a 4S2P lithium ion rechargeable 18650 cells battery for a nominal voltage of 14.8 VDC and 5 amp hours of capacity. In some embodiments the at least one external battery may include a SMBus gas gauge IC and protection circuitry. In some embodiments the system may include one external battery and in some embodiments the system may include two or more external batteries. In some embodiments the at least one external battery may be worn by a user by attaching the external battery to a holster a belt holster a pack or other apparatus to secure the external battery to the user. In some embodiments the external battery is connected to a device for example but not limited to a prosthetic device by an electric connector for example a cable.

In some embodiments where at least one external battery is used a power button may be located on the holster or other holder of the external battery. In an exemplary embodiment the holster may be configured to include a pushbutton holster e.g. in some embodiments this embodiment may be used when there is no internal battery or a non pushbutton holster e.g. in some embodiments this embodiment may be used when there is at least one internal battery . In some embodiments where both at least one internal battery and at least one external battery are included in the system the internal battery includes an internal battery interface. In these embodiments software is common to both the internal battery interface and the holster and configuration jumpers on the board may be read by the software to determine the type of board.

In various embodiments the system may include a device including but not limited to a medical device e.g. a prosthetic device or prosthetic arm at least one internal battery and at least one external battery. In some embodiment of this embodiment the system may include at least two external batteries. In some embodiments all the batteries may include built in circuits for measuring state of charge and protection against faults. In some embodiments one or more batteries may include built in circuits for measuring state of charge and protection against faults. In some embodiments similar to other smart batteries the batteries may communicate this information to the system using the System Management Bus SMBus hardware software protocol. In some embodiments the at least one or at least two external batteries are charged by an external battery charger.

In some embodiments as discussed above a holster may be included wherein the holster accepts and secures the external battery. Referring now also to one embodiments of a battery interface view into holster or charger is shown. In various embodiments when one external battery is mounted in the holster spring contacts in the holster mate to metal pads on the external battery which interfaces the battery to the device s e.g. prosthetic arm s power and communication busses. The external battery charger duplicates the holster s interface to the battery for both supplying charge power and for SMBus communication.

Referring also to one embodiment of a holster and an external battery is shown. Referring also to in some embodiments a charger may accommodate one or more external batteries . In the embodiment shown in the charger accommodates two external batteries .

In some embodiments the external battery charger may be designed to charge up to two external batteries simultaneously. In some embodiments for ease of use the external batteries may be loaded vertically like a toaster relying on the battery s weight in some embodiments to create sufficient force to connect with the electrical contacts. In some embodiments the external batteries may include a keying feature i.e. they may be keyed to prevent being inserted backwards. In some embodiments each charger bay may have a dedicated charge circuit both of which in some embodiments may be overseen by a microcontroller with custom software.

In some embodiments bulk power may be supplied to the battery charger by an off the shelf medical grade power supply that produces 24 VDC. In some embodiments this power may be the AC adapter described above i.e. the same power supply that may be used to provide charge power to the device.

In some embodiments the external battery charger is a Level charger by the definitions of the Smart Battery System specification. Thus the charger s microcontroller acts as the SMBus master and queries each battery for its desired charging current and terminal charging voltage. The microcontroller forwards this information to the charge circuits. The microcontroller may provide the full requested charge power or limit one or both batteries to avoid exceeding the rating of the power supply. Through the SMBus interface the charger may also be able to query the external batteries status and use this information to determine if a fault has occurred.

The interactions among the external batteries the charge circuits and the microcontroller are complex. In general the software and hardware are architected to disable power to the charging circuits by default. In some embodiments only when a number of predetermined conditions are met for example but not limited to one or more of the following charge voltage in acceptable range battery is present and communicating battery reports no faults requested charge current in acceptable range etc. will charge power be applied.

Referring now also to a system block diagram of one embodiment of the battery system for a device is shown. As discussed above in some embodiments various embodiments of the battery system may be used with a prosthetic device including but not limited to a prosthetic arm. However in various embodiments the various embodiments of the battery system may be used with any device requiring power. For purposes of illustration only some embodiments of the system are described with reference to a prosthetic arm. However this is for descriptive purposes only and it should be understood that the system is not limited to use with a prosthetic arm. In various other embodiments the components described below with reference to a prosthetic arm e.g. shoulder ACM stack may be different where the system is used in conjunction with a device other than a prosthetic arm device.

Referring now also to and diagrams of two embodiments of the internal battery interface are shown. In some embodiments where the system includes an internal battery and at least one external battery the internal battery connects to a custom circuit board called the internal battery interface. This board contains a microcontroller that talks e.g. on a CAN bus as a slave to a master controller. The board also has a charging circuit for the internal battery. The charging circuit is powered in some embodiments from either an external 24 VDC power source like from an AC adapter or from the system power bus getting power from the external battery . Because in some embodiments the 24 VDC AC adapter interface connector may be a common barrel connector to reduce and or eliminate the possibility that a user might connect the wrong voltage AC adapter and to protect against the wrong voltage or polarity AC adapter from affecting the internal battery interface electronics in some embodiments circuitry may be incorporated into the internal battery interface board to tolerate a range of AC adapter input voltages for example including but not limited to a range from 36 VDC to 36 VDC. In various other embodiments this range may be different. In some embodiments the voltage range may be determined by conducting a search of commonly available AC adapters with similar output connectors.

In some embodiments the internal battery interface circuitry may include a soft power interface controller. In some embodiments this controller monitors the power on off button and helps to control system power. In some embodiments the microcontroller also participates in this functionality however the soft power controller may in some embodiments independently shut off the system power if the microcontroller fails to respond to power off requests.

Referring now also to and diagrams of two embodiments of the external battery interface with a holster are shown.

In some embodiments the external battery connects to another custom circuit board in the external battery holster which is described in more detail below. In some embodiments the schematic for the external battery holster board may be similar to the schematic of the internal battery interface board. In some embodiments the schematic for the external battery holster board may be different from the internal battery interface board. In some embodiments the external battery holster contains a microcontroller that talks e.g. on a CAN bus as a slave to the master controller and it talks to the internal battery over a SMBus.

In some embodiments the external battery interface circuitry includes a soft power interface controller. In some embodiments this controller monitors the power on off button and helps to control system power. As with the internal battery interface board in some embodiments the microcontroller may also play a part in this functionality however the soft power controller may independently shut off the system power should the microcontroller fail to respond to one or more power off requests. In some embodiments the soft power controller in the holster is only installed when there is a pushbutton in the holster .

Referring now also to a system schematic of one embodiment of the system is shown. In this embodiment the system includes an internal battery and at least one external battery. Again referring to a prosthetic arm for illustration purposes inside the prosthetic forearm in some embodiments an internal battery circuit board is located next to the internal battery. The internal battery circuit board includes a microcontroller that communicates with the internal battery including communications related to the charge of the internal battery. In addition in some embodiments the microcontroller communicates with the prosthetic arm systems communication bus CAN Bus which communicates with the master controller. The master controller therefore in various embodiments receives information about the battery which may include but is not limited to the amount of charge in the battery. The master controller can make decisions regarding when to charge the internal battery and also when to switch between the external battery and the internal battery for powering the device e.g. the prosthetic arm. The external battery also has an interface board with a microcontroller that communicates to the external battery and the arm system s communications bus CAN bus which communicates with the master controller. In some embodiments a cable connects the external battery to the arm device system. The power from the external battery may also power the arm device.

In some embodiments the internal battery circuit board includes a smart charger circuit that may either accept input power from the AC adapter or from the arm system power bus thus charging the internal battery from the external battery. In some embodiments the power from the power bus which comes from the external battery is boosted to a higher voltage for input to the smart charger.

The following are various methods that may be applied by the system to determine where to take power from e.g. which battery to take power from to power the device. These are not limiting factors and additional alternative factors may be used in various embodiments. In some embodiments one or more of the following are not used.

In some embodiments whenever there is an external battery connected to the system the master controller decides that the external battery powers the bus and therefore disconnects the internal battery from the power bus.

In some embodiments when the external battery remaining capacity goes below a preset predetermined preprogrammed threshold the master controller may automatically command the internal battery to switch to power the bus.

In some embodiments alerts and warnings may be displayed to the user for example using a user interface on the device if the installed battery i.e. the combined remaining capacity of all installed batteries is below a preset predetermined preprogrammed threshold. Thus in various embodiments to determine the combined capacity total capacity of all installed batteries the total capacity of all internal batteries and any external battery connected to the system is used.

In some embodiments where there is an internal battery and the device system first powers on the system may always be initially powered by the internal battery until the master controller determines how many batteries are connected for example whether there is an external battery present.

In some embodiments once the device power is turned on the main computer master controller determines whether there is an external battery present. If there is an external battery present but if it is not connected the master controller will allow the internal battery to power the bus.

However in some embodiments once the master controller determines that there is an external battery present the master controller determines if the external battery has enough capacity i.e. the external battery capacity exceeds a predetermine preset preprogrammed threshold and if so connects the external battery to the power bus and disconnects the internal battery from the power bus.

In some embodiments the interface board near the internal battery may monitor the status of that internal battery to determine whether the internal battery needs to be charged i.e. whether the capacity of the internal battery is less than a preset preprogrammed predetermined threshold. When an external battery is present and has greater than a preset predetermined preprogrammed threshold of remaining capacity then in some embodiments the interface board may begin charging the internal battery using the external battery.

In some embodiments connecting the AC adapter to the device takes priority over charging the internal battery from the external battery. This may be beneficial for many reasons including but not limited to preserving the power that is in the external battery.

In some embodiments the external battery which in some embodiments is also rechargeable may be required to be removed disconnected from the device and or from the holster to be charged. Thus in some embodiments the external batteries will not recharge if connected to the device arm.

As described above some embodiments of the system include an external battery holster . In these embodiments the external battery holster may include contacts that allow the external battery to be unclipped from the holster . In some embodiments the holster may have a microcontroller in some embodiments having a microcontroller when the external battery is taken off the holster or is not connected to the holster the device system may determine that the holster is still connected but that the external battery is no longer connected to the holster . In some embodiments where the device previously determined that two batteries an internal and an external are connected the device can determine that the external battery has been disconnected. In some embodiments when the external battery is disconnected from the holster the device arm may automatically switch over to use the internal battery to power the device arm. In some embodiments the system may determine that the external battery is disconnected by monitoring the falling voltage.

In some embodiments when the system first turns on the circuit in the interface circuit closes and powers the bus. Then the master controller sees the external battery and turns the holster on and the interface circuit off and then the external battery powers the bus.

In some embodiments when the external battery is disconnected from the holster the external battery may reach a preset predetermined preprogrammed hot swap threshold voltage and the system may then turn on the internal battery interface circuit and turn off the holster external battery interface circuit.

Next in some embodiments if a new for example charged external battery is inserted into the holster the holster interface knows that an external battery has been connected to the system and in some embodiments the master computer then turns the holster external interface circuit on and the internal battery interface circuit off.

Thus in some embodiments the system includes a method and system for hot swapping a battery power source that is powering a device. In some embodiments for example having a device including at least one internal battery and two external batteries where the device is powered by the external battery and the system determines that the external battery becomes disconnected the system may continue regular operation by turning the external interface circuit off and the internal interface circuit on thereby continuously powering the device. Then when for example the external battery is connected again to the system device the system recognizes that the external battery is again connected and turns the internal interface circuit off and the external interface circuit on thereby the device is powered again by the external battery.

In some embodiments this method may be used to hot swap a first external battery for a second external battery. In some embodiments these may be beneficial for changing external batteries when one external battery s charge has depleted and a second external battery is more charged than the first. For example in some embodiments where the first external battery has been powering the device for a threshold period of time which may be close to the maximum use a user may hot swap the first external battery for a second external battery which may be in some embodiments fully charged. This may be beneficial for continuously powering the device without interruption.

In some embodiments for example in embodiments where the system is used with a medical device for example a prosthetic device which may include a prosthetic arm the system allows for functionality of the device arm using an internal battery which may be supplemented by an external battery. Therefore for example where a user may be dressing undressing using the internal battery during this time allows for arm functionality without being tethered to an external battery by a cable. The tethering and or cable may make tasks for example dressing undressing more difficult. However this system allows for use of an external battery which may have longer use per charge and also for a hot swap of the external battery. The system also includes the ability to recharge the internal battery using the external battery which provides for a system of assuring the user that the internal battery will be charged when next needed for example if morning tasks depleted the internal battery charge by 75 once connected to the external battery for example during the daytime hours the internal battery will be recharged to 100 from the external battery. Then for evening tasks for example which may include those tasks that are more convenient to accomplish without a tether to an external battery the internal battery will be available charged. This system is advantageous for many reasons including but not limited to providing ease of recharging the internal battery continuous use of the device even while swapping power sources and allowing for use of the device arm for tasks where being tethered or having cables may inhibit make difficult one s ability to complete the desired tasks efficiently and or with ease. In various embodiments the AC adapter may be used for example overnight to charge the internal battery while the charger may be used to charge the one or more external batteries.

In various embodiments the user interface on the device may indicate to the user the charge status of the one or more batteries i.e. internal and or external battery connected to the device arm. For example in some embodiments the wrist display may indicate the total amount of remaining capacity which is calculated based on the total batteries connected to the system e.g. in some embodiments 1 battery or 2 batteries. Therefore in these embodiments if 2 batteries are connected to the system the battery indicator adds the total capacity of both batteries and determines the remaining capacity. Thus for example if no external battery was connected to the device and the internal battery is 100 charged the user interface may indicate that the charge is 100 . However if an external battery is then connected to the system and it is not itself 100 charged the user interface battery indicator may indicate less than 100 taking into consideration the amount of charge remaining on both batteries. Thus this may be advantageous for many reasons including but not limited to the system reporting an accurate remaining capacity to the user taking into consideration all the batteries connected to the device.

Although this system has been described with respect to prosthetic devices in some embodiments the system may be used in any device including but not limited to those devices where the internal rechargeable battery is not user replaceable or where the internal rechargeable battery is difficult to replace and or remove to recharge. In some embodiments the system may be used on any device that is a portable continuous duty system where it is desirable that the device continuously be powered on to perform one or more tasks. In some embodiments the system may be used with a medical device.

In various embodiments the hot swap described above may be used once an external battery is disconnected and an AC adapter is connected. Thus once the system determines that the external battery is disconnected the system switches to using the internal battery. Following once the AC adapter is connected to the device the system switches to using the AC adapter to charge the internal battery. Also vice versa where the AC adapter is currently connected and is then disconnected and an external battery is connected the internal battery will be charged from the external battery.

The system may be used in many devices including but not limited to infusion pumps monitoring device and other device having a high duty cycle. The various embodiments of the systems includes one or more power sources which may include one or more but not limited to the following AC adapter rechargeable battery internal to the device rechargeable battery external to the device and where one of these power sources is powering the device another of these power sources may be connected to the device and henceforth power the device. Additionally one or more of the power sources may recharge one or more of the other power sources for example an external battery may recharge an internal battery and or an AC adapter may recharge an internal battery. In some embodiments while the device is currently in use and powered by an external device the external device may also provide charge to an internal battery to recharge the internal battery.

Thus in some embodiments of the system the external battery not only runs the device but also recharges the internal battery at the same time and can swap out the external battery for with a second external battery when the first external battery s charge is depleted. All of these may be accomplished while the device is fully powered in a continuous uninterrupted manner.

In various embodiments the system may be advantageously used in devices where it may be beneficial for the device not to be plugged in and or not be tethered for example but not limited to laptops and or surgical devices.

In some embodiments the system may be advantageous in devices where removing the internal battery may interrupt the ongoing use of the device and or trigger a start up process which would interrupt the performance of a device.

In some embodiments the system may include methods for hot swapping two or more batteries that may be user accessible. For example the system may include a first battery and a second battery. The first battery may be 100 charged and the second battery may be 50 charged or in various embodiments the first battery may be more charged than the second. The first battery may charge the second battery while the first battery powers a device. Thus in some embodiments a first battery may serve as a charger battery and a second battery may serve as a charged battery. In some embodiments once the first battery charger battery is depleted of its charge to a preset threshold predetermined preprogrammed level the second battery charged battery may be swapped out automatically such that the second battery charged battery is now running the device and first battery charger battery is being recharged by the second battery. Thus the first battery and the second battery swap tasks. Thus in some embodiments this method provides that one battery is always more charged than a second battery and therefore the device may be continuously powered without interruption and or without restarting and or starting up processes.

In some embodiments the various hot swap methods may include methods for increasing the life of the battery by not exceeding a preset predetermined minimum charge e.g. 50 . In some embodiments the system may favor maintaining the internal battery at a charge as high as possible.

While the principles of the invention have been described herein it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the scope of the present invention in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

