---

title: Efficient caching and drawing of objects whose rendering properties change frequently
abstract: A display device may be operable to create a display list during rendering of a graphics object. The display device may store a set of properties of the graphics object, where the set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display device. When one or more property states associated with the stored set of properties are changed, the display device may update the stored set of properties based on the property state change(s). The display device may process, utilizing the updated stored set of properties, the display list to cause a graphics module in the display device to present the graphics object, in the changed property state(s), on the display device. The set of properties may comprise translucency property and/or transform property. The transform property may comprise information on position, rotation and/or scale associated with the graphics object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08766986&OS=08766986&RS=08766986
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08766986
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120627
---
This patent application makes reference to claim priority to and claims benefit from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 663 384 which was filed on Jun. 22 2012.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure relate to rendering graphics objects. More specifically certain embodiments of the disclosure relate to a method and system for efficient caching and drawing of objects whose rendering properties change frequently.

Various graphics objects may be rendered on a display device as results from graphical operations. During rendering of a graphics object a display list may be created and cached. The display list is an intermediate representation of the graphics object. The display list may comprise a series of graphics commands that may define an output image. The image may be rendered by executing the graphics commands.

The graphics object may comprise a plurality of properties. One or more properties of the graphics object may be changed for example due to animations running on an application. When one or more properties of the graphics object are changed the cached display list may need to be recreated before it can be processed to cause a graphics module such as a graphics processing unit GPU in the display device to present or draw the changed graphics object.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with the present disclosure as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a method and system for efficient caching and drawing of objects whose rendering properties change frequently. In various embodiments of the disclosure a display device may comprise a graphics module. The display device may be for example a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet a laptop a PC a connected TV device and or a gaming device. Various graphics objects may be rendered on the display device as results from graphical operations. During rendering of a graphics object a display list may be created and cached. The display list is an intermediate representation of the graphics object. The created display list may then be processed and communicated to the graphics module for drawing the graphics object on the display device. The display device may store a first set of properties of the graphics object where the first set of properties describes how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display device. When one or more property states associated with the stored first set of properties are changed the display device may update the stored first set of properties based on the property state change s . The display device may process utilizing the updated stored first set of properties the display list to cause the graphics module to present the graphics object in the changed property state s on the display device.

The first set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display device and may comprise for example translucency property and or transform property. The graphics object may also comprise a second set of properties where the second set of properties may describe what is to be drawn on the display device for the graphics object.

Various advantages aspects and novel features of the present disclosure as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the disclosure can be found in a method and system for efficient caching and drawing of objects whose rendering properties change frequently. Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and in drawings to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the disclosure. One skilled in the art however will understand that additional embodiments of the present disclosure may be practiced without several of the details described in the following description.

In various embodiments of the disclosure a display device may be operable to create a display list during rendering of a graphics object. A first set of properties of the graphics object may be stored by the display device where the first set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display device. The display device may be operable to receive an indication that one or more property states associated with the stored first set of properties have been changed. In response to the received indication the display device may be operable to update the stored first set of properties based on the changed one or more property states. The display device may then be operable to process utilizing the updated stored first set of properties the display list to cause the display device to present the graphics object in the changed one or more property states on the display device.

The first set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display device and may comprise translucency property and or transform property for example. The transform property may comprise information on position rotation and or scale associated with said graphics object. The graphics object may also comprise a second set of properties where the second set of properties may describe what is to be drawn on the display device for the graphics object. In this regard the second set of properties of the graphics object may comprise information on lines bitmaps texts and or other drawing primitives for example.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the display list may comprise one or more drawing operations which are created for causing the display device to present or draw the graphics object on the display device. The one or more drawing operations may comprise for example one or more drawing commands and or one or more associated parameters. The display device may comprise for example a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet a laptop a PC a connected TV device and or a gaming device. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the graphics object may comprise a user interface UI object. In this regard the one or more property states may be changed in instances when the UI object is under a UI animation for example.

The graphics module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to draw or present graphics objects on the display module of the display device . The graphics module may be operable to accelerate the building of images in a frame buffer intended for output to the display module . The graphics module may implement a plurality of application programming interfaces APIs such as for example OpenGL APIs to perform the drawing on the display module . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the graphics module may comprise for example a graphics processing unit GPU .

The display module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to display or present processed content to a user of the display device . The display module may present graphics objects which may be drawn by the graphics module .

The processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to process signals or data. The processor may be operable to manage and or control operations of various modules or components in the display device . In an example embodiment of the disclosure the processor may be operable to create a display list such as the display list during rendering of a graphic object. The display list may be cached in the display list storage module . The processor may be operable to store a first set of properties such as the object properties of the graphics object in the object property storage module . The first set of properties may comprise information which describes how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display module . In instances when one or more property states associated with the stored first set of properties are changed the processor may be operable to update the stored first set of properties based on the changed one or more property states. The processor may then be operable to process utilizing the updated stored first set of properties the display list to cause the graphics module to present or draw the graphics object in the changed one or more property states on the display module .

The memory may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store information such as executable instructions and data that may be utilized by the processor the display module and or the graphics module . The memory may comprise RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage.

The display list storage module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store the display lists such as the display list associated with a graphic object. The display list is an intermediate representation of the graphics object. The display list may comprise one or more drawing operations which may be created for the graphics module to present or draw the graphics object on the display module . In this regard the one or more drawing operations may comprise one or more drawing commands and or one or more associated parameters. For example the drawing operations may comprise drawing commands and parameters for drawing lines bitmaps texts and or other drawing primitives for the graphics object.

The object property storage module may comprise suitable logic circuitry interfaces and or code that may be operable to store the object properties such as a first set of properties associated with a graphics object where the first set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display module . In this regard the first set of properties may comprise for example translucency property and or transform property. The translucency property may also be referred to as alpha property. The translucency property may determine the degree to which a user can see through the graphics object on the display module . A range of transparency varying from completely transparent i.e. invisible to completely opacity i.e. no transparency may be specified by translucency or alpha values. The transform property may define transformation information on position rotation and or scale associated with the graphics object displayed on the display module . The position attribute or property in the transform property may also be referred to as translation property. The position or translation property may determine the location or position of the graphics object to be drawn on the display module .

In operation the display device may comprise the graphics module . The display device may be for example a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet a laptop a PC a connected TV device and or a gaming device. The processor in the display device may be operable to create a display list during rendering of the graphics object. The display list may be cached in the display list storage module in the display device . A first set of properties of the graphics object may be stored in the object property storage module in the display device where the first set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display module in the display device . The processor may be operable to receive an indication that one or more property states associated with the stored first set of properties have been changed. In response to the received indication the processor may be operable to update the stored first set of properties based on the changed one or more property states. The processor may then be operable to process utilizing the updated stored first set of properties the display list to cause the graphics module to present the graphics object in the changed one or more property states on the display module . In such instances the cached display list may not need to be recreated before it can be processed to cause the graphics module in the display device to present or draw the changed graphics object on the display module .

The first set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display module and may comprise translucency property and or transform property for example. The transform property may comprise information on position rotation and or scale associated with said graphics object. The graphics object may also comprise a second set of properties where the second set of properties may describe what is to be drawn on the display module for the graphics object. In this regard the second set of properties of the graphics object may comprise information on lines bitmaps texts and or other drawing primitives for example.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the display list may comprise one or more drawing operations which are created for the graphics module to present or draw the graphics object on the display module . The one or more drawing operations may comprise for example one or more drawing commands and or one or more associated parameters. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the graphics object may comprise a user interface UI object. In this regard the one or more property states may be changed in instances when the UI object is under a UI animation for example.

In an example operation the processor in the display device may be operable to create the display list during rendering of the graphic object in the property states of the first set of properties . The processor may be operable to store the first set of properties which are in the property states in the object property storage module . In instances when the property states are changed from the property states to the property states the processor may be operable to update the stored first set of properties based on the change s . The processor may then be operable to process the display list utilizing the updated stored first set of properties in the changed property states to cause the graphics module in the display device to present or draw the graphic object .

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the graphics object may comprise a UI object . In such instances the change s may be a result of running UI animation s . For example the UI object may be a text box or window. When running some UI animations some properties of the first set of properties may be animated. When running a fading animation for example the translucency or alpha property may be animated to cause the translucency of the UI object to increase as the UI object to fade away. When running a transformation animation the transform property may be animated to cause the change of position rotation and or scale of the UI object for example.

In step the processor may be operable to receive an indication that one or more property states associated with the stored first set of properties have been changed. In step in response to the received indication the processor may be operable to update the stored first set of properties based on the changed one or more property states. In step the processor may be operable to process utilizing the updated stored first set of properties the display list to cause a graphics module such as the graphics module in the display device to present or draw the graphics object in the changed one or more property states such as in the property states on the display module in the display device . The example steps may proceed to the end step .

In step the processor may be operable to receive an indication that one or more property states associated with the stored first set of properties have been changed due to for example a UI animation . In step in response to the received indication the processor may be operable to update the stored first set of properties based on the changed one or more property states. In step the processor may be operable to process utilizing the updated stored first set of properties the display list to cause a graphics module such as the graphics module in the display device to present or draw the UI object in the changed one or more property states such as in the property states under the UI animation on the display module in the display device . The example steps may proceed to the end step .

In various embodiments of the disclosure a display device such as the display device may comprise a graphics module such as the graphics module . The display device may be for example a mobile phone a smart phone a tablet a laptop a PC a connected TV device and or a gaming device. The processor in the display device may be operable to create a display list during rendering of a graphics object such as the graphics object . The display list may be cached in the display list storage module in the display device . A first set of properties of the graphics object may be stored by the processor in the object property storage module in the display device . The first set of properties may be for example in the property states . The first set of properties may describe how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display module in the display device . The processor may be operable to receive an indication that one or more property states associated with the stored first set of properties have been changed. In response to the received indication the processor may be operable to update the stored first set of properties based on the changed one or more property states. The processor may then be operable to process utilizing the updated stored first set of properties the display list to cause the graphics module to present the graphics object in the changed one or more property states such as in the property states on the display module .

The first set of properties may describes how the graphics object is to be drawn on the display module and may comprise translucency property and or transform property for example. The transform property may comprise information on position rotation and or scale associated with said graphics object . The graphics object may also comprise a second set of properties where the second set of properties may describe what is to be drawn on the display module for the graphics object . In this regard the second set of properties of the graphics object may comprise information on lines bitmaps texts and or other drawing primitives for example.

In an example embodiment of the disclosure the display list may comprise one or more drawing operations which are created for the graphics module to present or draw the graphics object on the display module . The one or more drawing operations may comprise for example one or more drawing commands and or one or more associated parameters. In another example embodiment of the disclosure the graphics object may comprise a UI object such as the UI object . In this regard the one or more property states may be changed in instances when the UI object is under for example a UI animation such as the UI animation

Other embodiments of the disclosure may provide a non transitory computer readable medium and or storage medium and or a non transitory machine readable medium and or storage medium having stored thereon a machine code and or a computer program having at least one code section executable by a machine and or a computer thereby causing the machine and or computer to perform the steps as described herein for efficient caching and drawing of objects whose rendering properties change frequently.

Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Aspects of the present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present disclosure has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present disclosure not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present disclosure will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

