---

title: Methods of analyzing a cellular network
abstract: A method of managing a load within a cellular network. The method includes obtaining network usage records from the cellular network; extracting cell information from the network usage records; establishing terminal carrier routes for cellular terminals that have changed location as determined from the extracted cell information; deriving terminal carrier profile attributes for the cellular terminals that have changed location, based on the established terminal carrier routes; determining a load on a resource of the cellular network, based on the established terminal carrier routes and the derived terminal carrier profile attributes; and controlling resources of the cellular network in response to the determined load, so as to manage the load within the cellular network. By combining established terminal carrier routes with derived terminal carrier profile attributes, it is possible to anticipate areas where cellular terminal carriers are likely to be concentrated at specific times during the day and allocate resources accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357553&OS=09357553&RS=09357553
owner: International Business Machines
number: 09357553
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This application claims priority to United Kingdom Application Number 1121955.7 filed on Dec. 21 2011 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods of extracting and analysing data from cellular networks and more particularly using the extracted information to establishing a likelihood of one or more cellular terminal carriers travelling to a predetermined location and managing a load within the cellular network.

Traffic planners often want to know the impact of events on city infrastructure event managers often want to target their marketing to maximise the return on investment of their marketing budget and individuals often want to know what events they would enjoy attending. Data that could be used to predict who will go to a certain place at a certain time is only available for a small sub set of people e.g. captured through surveys customer details from tickets sales or on web 2.0 location based service applications where users can check in or rate locations.

Mobile operators may collect network usage records NUR that contain information about call events including telephone calls SMS and mobile data retrieval. Usage of mobile phones and demographics has already been used to predict attendance at events such as whether a mobile phone customer will churn cancel their contract . Call detail records e.g. ID cell and date and time for mobile phone events have been used to infer home location and attendance at events see for instance F Calabrese et al International Conference on Pervasive Computing Helsinki Finland 2010 which deals with the analysis of crowd mobility during special events.

However the sole use of home location as a parameter for determining attendance of an event results in poor accuracy of the prediction measurement. Home location is furthermore an inferior parameter for use in estimating the attendance of an event as it only characterises the relative distance between the customer and the event. There is therefore a need to improve the accuracy and reliability with which the attendance of an event can be predicted and in a broader sense the likelihood of cellular terminal carriers travelling to a predetermined location.

Additionally large volumes of mobile phone subscribers located within a certain area and at a certain time of day often place heavy loads on the local telecommunications infrastructure. For instance a lack of cellular base stations in the general vicinity of an event may limit the capability of the subscribers to initiate mobile events such as placing calls or browsing the internet. Moreover the power being delivered to cellular base stations in the vicinity of an event attended by many mobile phone subscribers may be insufficient to cater for all of the subscribers and bandwidth may as a result be severely limited. There is therefore a need to more rapidly and more efficiently manage the load within a cellular network.

In a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of establishing a likelihood of one or more cellular terminal carriers travelling to a predetermined location using cellular network data. The method comprises the steps of obtaining network usage records from a cellular network extracting cell information from the network usage records establishing terminal carrier routes for cellular terminals that have changed location as determined from the extracted cell information deriving terminal carrier profile attributes based on the established terminal carrier routes and establishing the likelihood of one or more cellular terminal carriers travelling to the predetermined location based on the established terminal carrier routes and the derived terminal carrier profile attributes.

In particular one example of establishing a likelihood of one or more cellular terminal carriers travelling to a predetermined location is the prediction of attendance of an event by one or more cellular terminal carriers. Events may include but are not limited to sports games festivals music concerts demonstrations etc. In particular events include any social gathering which is likely to attract a large number of individuals particularly when concentrated in an urban environment.

A cellular terminal is typically a mobile telecommunications device such as a mobile phone but could also include PDAs laptop computers or any other portable device that may communicate with the network. A cellular terminal carrier or simply a terminal carrier may be a customer of the cellular network e.g. a regular user of the network who is registered with the network service provider for example . Alternatively a cellular terminal carrier may be a user who is registered with another cellular network.

Thus based not only on knowledge of a cellular terminal carrier s distance between their home and work locations but also on the particularities of the various routes they take during the week one may obtain a more accurate likelihood of a cellular terminal carrier travelling to a predetermined location such as the likelihood of the terminal carrier attending an event. A single cellular terminal carrier may be associated with multiple terminal carrier routes. This could depend for example on the day of the week in which the terminal carrier route is established. A single terminal carrier route may also be associated with a plurality of terminal carrier profile attributes e.g. one characterising their favoured mode of transport another characterising their propensity to travel far from home .

By combining a terminal carrier route with one or more terminal carrier profile attributes a more precise and accurate inference of the likelihood of the cellular terminal carrier travelling to a predetermined location or attending an event may be obtained. For example a first cellular terminal carrier may have their home location at a great distance from an event whilst a second cellular terminal carrier may live in close proximity of the event. However if the first cellular terminal carrier based on their terminal carrier profile attribute or attributes has a higher propensity to travel further in order to reach a given destination whilst the second cellular terminal carrier rarely travels far from home both cellular terminal carriers may nonetheless have similar likelihoods of attending the event despite the large difference in their relative proximity to the event. The method may thus take into account many contributory factors based on a cellular terminal carrier s terminal carrier route s each of which may influence the likelihood of attendance. A more accurate map or picture of the likely attendance of an event or likelihood to travel to a predetermined location by a multitude of cellular terminal carriers can therefore be obtained.

Optionally the extracted cell information includes cellular base station identifiers and the step of establishing terminal carrier routes further comprises determining changes in the cellular base station identifiers during mobile events. A cellular base station identifier may include not only an identifier of the base station itself but also a cellular base station location identifier which identifies the particular location of the base station within the cellular network e.g. latitude and longitude .

Optionally a terminal carrier profile attribute may be selected from one or more of the list consisting of a volume of mobile events along a terminal carrier route a type of mobile events along a terminal carrier route a length of a terminal carrier route a length of time spent at an endpoint of a terminal carrier route a number of visits to an endpoint of a terminal carrier route during a predetermined period of time a distribution of endpoints of a terminal carrier route and one or more modes of transport used by the cellular terminal carrier. A cellular terminal carrier may therefore be characterised using various different terminal carrier profile attributes. Furthermore because a cellular terminal carrier may have different routes over a certain period of time e.g. one working week it is advantageous to employ various criteria when deriving terminal carrier profile attributes.

Optionally the one or more modes of transport may be derived by matching at least a portion of the terminal carrier route with one or more predetermined transport routes. Matching at least a portion of the terminal carrier route may comprise comparing the locations of cellular base stations as determined by the extracted cell information with the one or more predetermined transport routes. The terminal carrier profile attribute may also be a function of whether the one or more modes of transport is a mode of public transport. By determining the different modes of transport a cellular terminal carrier takes a more precise terminal carrier profile attribute may be derived. For example if the terminal carrier route is largely matched with predetermined train routes then it may be inferred that the cellular terminal carrier is more likely to take a train to travel to a predetermined location e.g. attend an event and may therefore be more likely to attend events far removed from their home location.

Optionally the network usage records span a predetermined time period such as twenty four hours for example.

Optionally at least one of the terminal carrier profile attributes may be a function of the location of the most common endpoint of a respective terminal carrier route as determined when the respective terminal carrier route is established using network usage records spanning a first time period and using network usage records spanning a second time period. The word function in this sense means that the terminal carrier profile attribute may be adjusted or else may vary as the respective terminal carrier route or routes changes. An endpoint that is visited multiple times when compared to other endpoints of the route may for instance suggest that the cellular terminal carrier is more likely to attend an event close to said endpoint and this may be reflected in the corresponding terminal carrier profile attribute s .

Optionally the step of deriving terminal carrier profile attributes may comprise calculating a radius of gyration of an endpoint of a terminal carrier route as calculated using network usage records spanning a first time period and using network usage records spanning a second time period. The radius of gyration is a useful parameter for characterising a cellular terminal carrier s propensity to travel further from home.

Optionally the mobile events may be selected from the group consisting of call SMS cell change MMS USSD IMSI and data download.

Optionally the network usage records are real time near real time or stored data. A combination of real time and stored data helps one derive more accurate terminal carrier profile attributes.

Optionally the method further comprises the step of determining whether a cellular terminal carrier travels to the predetermined location during a predetermined time period using the cell information extracted from network usage records spanning the predetermined time period. For example the method may comprise determining whether the cellular terminal carrier attends an event using the extracted cell information at the time of the event. This information may be used in later predictions of the likelihood of attendance of events.

For instance if it is predicted that 10 of a cellular terminal carrier base will attend an event and if it is later confirmed that of those 10 90 attended that event then the terminal carrier profile attributes of those 90 may be adjusted to indicate a higher likelihood of those 90 attending a later event in the same location. Furthermore a terminal carrier s terminal carrier profile attribute may be adjusted based on the existence of other terminal carriers having similar terminal carrier profile attributes and or for whom similar terminal carrier routes have been established. For example it may be known that terminal carriers with a certain type of terminal carrier profile attribute possess well established terminal carrier routes for attending a certain event. It may therefore be inferred that other terminal carriers with similar terminal carrier profile attributes are more likely to attend that event. The likelihood may be adjusted accordingly depending on the terminal carrier route established for those other terminal carriers.

Optionally the step of establishing the likelihood of one or more cellular terminal carriers travelling to the predetermined location may comprise using the established terminal carrier routes and the derived terminal carrier profile attributes as inputs for decision trees such as CHAID logistic regression and or neural nets.

In a second aspect the present invention there is provided a method of managing a load within a cellular network. The method comprises the steps of obtaining network usage records from the cellular network extracting cell information from the network usage records establishing terminal carrier routes for cellular terminals that have changed location as determined from the extracted cell information deriving terminal carrier profile attributes based on the established terminal carrier routes determining a load on a resource of the cellular network based on the established terminal carrier routes and the derived terminal carrier profile attributes and controlling resources of the cellular network in response to the determined load so as to manage the load within the cellular network. The step of determining the load may comprise calculating a likelihood of a concentration of cellular terminal carriers forming at a location.

By combining established terminal carrier routes with derived terminal carrier profile attributes it is possible to anticipate areas where cellular terminal carriers are likely to be concentrated at specific times during the day. As a result the load on certain resources of the cellular network and at specific locations can be estimated and the resources of the network can be balanced redistributed or otherwise controlled accordingly. For example when a major event such as a large music festival is taking place within a city centre based on terminal carrier routes and terminal carrier profile attributes one may determine the likelihood of a large number of cellular terminal carriers attending the festival and may thus estimate a load on the network in the vicinity of the festival. The network resources that are available during the festival may be controlled in response to the determined load.

Optionally the extracted cell information includes cellular base station identifiers and the step of establishing terminal carrier routes further comprises determining changes in the cellular base station identifiers during mobile events. A cellular base station identifier may include not only an identifier of the base station itself but also a cellular base station location identifier which identifies the particular location of the base station within the cellular network e.g. latitude and longitude .

Optionally the step of controlling resources of the cellular network comprises balancing resources of the cellular network. For example in areas where a load is determined to be low resources in such areas may be redistributed to other areas where a load is estimated to be great such that it places strain upon the resources available in those other areas. Redistribution of network resources in this manner may ensure that resources are efficiently used when needed and not wasted when they could be put to use in areas that require them.

Optionally a resource may be selected from one or more of the list consisting of a number of cellular base stations within a predetermined area a bandwidth on which a cellular base station may transmit and or receive and a power supplied to a cellular base station. There may be other resources of the network such as the number of back end servers being used for example.

Optionally each terminal carrier route has a plurality of endpoints and the step of determining the load may comprise establishing the number of endpoints within a predetermined area. A greater number of endpoints within an area may be indicative of a higher likelihood of cellular terminal carriers attending events or otherwise being present in the area. This information may be used to assist in more accurately determining the load on a resource of the network.

Optionally the step of controlling resources of the cellular network comprises modifying the number of cellular base stations within a predetermined area. The step of controlling resources of the cellular network may also comprise modifying the power supplied to at least one cellular base station. Modifying the power may comprise diverting power from at least one other cellular base station to the at least one cellular base station. Optionally the step of controlling resources of the cellular network comprises modifying the bandwidth on which at least one cellular base station may transmit and or receive. For example the bandwidth on which a cell base station transmits and or receives may be increased if a load is determined to increase at a certain point in time perhaps during a major city event. Similarly the number of cellular base stations in the area may be increased or altered.

Optionally the mobile events may be selected from the group consisting of call SMS cell change MMS USSD IMSI and data download.

Optionally the network usage records are real time near real time or stored data. A combination of real time and stored data may help derive more accurate terminal carrier profile attributes.

The methods described above may be implemented as a computer program comprising program instructions to operate a computer. The computer program may be stored on a computer readable medium. Furthermore the method may be implemented as a computer program operating on a computer system such as a network server or group of servers with suitable memory storage and database resources.

It should be noted that any feature described above may be used with any particular aspect or embodiment of the invention.

In the present embodiment the call reference provides an identifier for the NUR. The calling party is an identifier for the mobile device and may be the device s or SIM s telephone number for example. The receiving party field indicates the destination of the call. The calling party first location contains two subfields and indicating the location ID and cell ID specifying details of where the call is initiated. Similarly the calling party last location contains two subfields and specifying the location ID and cell ID of where the call was terminated. Where the calling party is moving between cells during a call the first location and last location may be different. The set up start time contains subfields date and time . Charging end time defines the date and time at the end of the call. Data volume indicates how much data was transmitted and or received if the call was a data call. Such a field may be absent or blank for non data calls. Field describes the call type which may be a voice call an SMS or a data transfer for example. Other call types may be included.

Although the term call has been used this may be a generic term to describe an event that may occur or be provided to a mobile device such as a cell phone. Other events may be stored within NUR data. For example an active mobile device moving between cells may have this handover recorded even though no call is made during this handover. Nevertheless such an event or set of events may be used to determine the location and speed of a particular mobile device. Furthermore average journey times for particular routes or sets of routes may be determined from analysing many events as recorded in NUR data.

Where the calling party first location and calling party last location are different locations then this indicates that the mobile device has moved during the call. In addition to the first and last locations other cell IDs may be stored within the NUR indicating handoff between different cells during the call. The set up start time and charging end time may be used to determine the call duration. As the location IDs typically relate to fixed locations of cell base stations and these may be known from a database of such locations then the distance travelled during the call by the mobile device or an estimation of this distance together with the duration of the call may be used to calculate travel speed or average travel speed during the call. As the density of cells increases so may the accuracy of the calculated travel speed. However even for spaced apart cells a suitable approximation of travel speed may be derived. Under certain circumstances a mobile device may not use the closest cell. Therefore certain cells may have different or overlapping coverage and this may be taken into account when determining the location and travel speed of a mobile device. For example such a situation may be determined when a mobile device hands over between non neighbouring cells.

A database contains a plurality of network usage records NUR . This NUR database may be populated by a mobile network or contained within such a network not shown in this figure . At step NUR data is retrieved from the database . Cell information is extracted from the NUR data at step . This cell information may include cell ID and or cell location ID. At step the extracted cell information is used to establish a terminal carrier route otherwise known as a customer route or customer journey. This may be done by identifying NURs originating from the handsets of customers moving throughout the cellular network. As a customer moves from one cell to an adjacent cell during a mobile event e.g. during a call the handover of the call from a cellular base station in the first cell to a cellular base station in the adjacent cell may be recorded in the NUR data and this provides an indication of the customer velocity i.e. speed and direction of travel allowing the respective route to be established. In other words a terminal carrier route may be established for cellular terminals e.g. mobile devices that have changed location as determined from the extracted cell information. At step one or more terminal carrier profile attributes also known as customer profile attributes are derived for any given customer route. The method of deriving the customer journey profile is explained in greater detail below in conjunction with . At step the likelihood of one or more customers attending an event is established.

The events generated or relating to a mobile phone are processed by the cell receiver transmitter . The generated live data may be stored in a database . This data may be supplemented by other data sources in database . These other data sources may include geographic information system GIS data for places of interest POI road and public transport routes customer relationship management CRM data public transport timetables event information and any other data sources. The NUR data may be analysed to determine whether particular events occurred with the mobile phone being stationary or moving at step . This result may be derived from timing of events and the distance between cells and whether or not the first cell and last cell are the same or different. For moving events the speed direction and distance travelled may be determined at step . From this the particular mode of transport may be inferred at step . Further details of the sub steps of this inference step are described with reference to . At step the particular users home cell work cell and commonly visited locations may be inferred. This may be based on a frequency of stationary events for a given cell and time of day for example.

Common routes modes of transport may be inferred at step . This inference may be based on common or most common routes modes of transport taken and from calculated start and end points of these particular routes. Commonly visited locations and their types may be inferred at step . The proportion of observed movements may be calculated or inferred at step . Non observed movements may be inferred at step and this may be based on historical profiles of movements for individuals at any given times of day. Typical working hours for particular users may be inferred at step . This information may be determined from typical working hours days commute time route mode and distance.

The total observed distance may be calculated for particular periods of time for users at step . The carbon footprints for particular users or groups of users may be calculated at step and this may be based on calculated or inferred travel distance and determined modes of transport.

A determination may be made as to whether the mobile device is a work or home mobile or cell phone at step . Such a derivation may be based on the location and time of day that the mobile device is predominantly or most commonly used. The radius of gyration for particular users may be calculated at step . An example of such a calculation may be found in M Gonzalez C Hidalgo and A L Barabasi Nature vol. 453 no. 7196 pp. 779 782 2008.

Thus a customer journey profile or customer profile attribute may be obtained and allows one to characterise a customer based on their customer route. Step assigns or calculates users to particular categories based on the inferred or calculated customer profile attributes generated in the previous steps. Additionally customer level data stored in database may be used as a further input for such categorisation assignment.

In certain circumstances the categorisation data may be sent back to the mobile device or to other systems to use such information at step .

As an example of how a customer profile attribute may be derived locations may be mapped to the extracted cell information for particular events relating to the retrieved NUR data. A database may be used to provide specific locations relating to the extracted cell information so that actual locations may be determined for particular users. This information may be used to determine that particular events related to static calls where the user was not moving during a particular event. This information may be used to determine the movement of a particular user as the first location and the last location may be different. Where a movement occurred then an inference may be made regarding the mode of transport that was used and thus the time spent from one endpoint of the customer route to another. A set of movements and user behaviour may be built up to provide an indication relating to the types of users that are making and potentially receiving calls or generating recorded events stored in the database .

Any combination a subset or all of the inference or calculation steps described with reference to may be used when deriving customer journey profiles. For example some types of customer profile attributes may use particular inference steps that are not used for others. Furthermore more than one customer profile attribute may be derived for a given customer and customer route.

As can be seen from the above customer profile attributes may include any number of parameters that help characterise the customer based on their particular customer route and may include but are not limited to a rating of the customer s mobility the length of a customer route the volume of mobile events along a customer route the type of mobile events along a customer route the length of time spent at home the length of time spent at work the customer s commute distance e.g. an average of how far the customer travels during weekdays the customer s leisure distance e.g. an average of how far the customer travels at weekends the customer s propensity to travel to new places e.g. a measure of the variation in customer journey routes over a certain time period and the customer s propensity to use public transport.

Using the derived customer profile attributes in combination with the customer routes a more accurate and precise indication of the likelihood of one more customers attending an event or otherwise travelling to a predetermined location can be generated. Prediction of the attendance of an event can be achieved using prediction classification algorithms such as decision trees e.g. CHAID logistic regression neural nets etc. using the relevant customer profile attribute s and customer route s as inputs. By running the method for a very large number of customers within a single large urban environment for example a clear indication of the number of individuals likely to attend the event may be obtained.

Using decision trees or logistic regression etc. it is possible build up a set of rules that for a given terminal carrier indicate a probability of the terminal carrier attending a given event e.g. being in a predetermined location at a predetermined time . By applying this calculation to a very large customer base it is possible to determine the number of customers that are expected to attend a given event. This data can be compared to the average number of customers that would be expected to attend the event e.g. based on a historical average and thus the likely resultant increase decrease in demand on the network resources can be calculated. Therefore a more efficient management of network resources can be achieved see below .

This has many advantages particularly in urban environments whereby traffic managers are better placed to anticipate large groups of people descending on a given point at a given and may prepare in advance for such eventualities. Moreover the accuracy with which the prediction is calculated is improved at a greater rate than in the prior art where only knowledge of customers home location is used. Knowledge not only of the customer routes but also customer route attributes such as the propensity for the customer to travel long distances or even the financial standing of the customer which may be inferred from the mode of transport of the user or their home or work locations is directly or indirectly linked to the likelihood of said customers attending an event. An individual s mobility also captures their tolerance to travelling intermediate distances or to places they have not been before. Hence knowledge of the customer profile attributes is a useful factor for determining the likelihood of a customer attending an event when compared to simple knowledge of a customer s home location.

By establishing terminal carrier routes and deriving based on the terminal carrier routes terminal carrier profile attributes it is possible to control a load on a resource of the cellular network. This has particular advantages for the efficient management of a city s telecommunications infrastructure and for the efficient management of cellular networks in general.

When many customers are predicted to be concentrated in a particular location and at a certain point in time this may place strain on the resource capacity of the local base stations for instance. Customers may not be able to initiate cell events as a result such as placing calls or interacting with the internet via their handsets. Knowledge of the likelihood of many customers forming an aggregation or a concentration at a certain location allows one to estimate the actual number of customers at that location at a certain point in time. In anticipation of such concentrations of customers for example due a large social event one may rapidly and efficiently manage the load within the cellular network by controlling the resources available to the network.

If there are a great many customer route endpoints in close vicinity to an event for example the resources of the network may be furthermore appropriately altered or balanced in view of the fact that many of the endpoints may correspond to customers who may not be attending the event but who nonetheless will be in the vicinity of the event and who will thus be relying on the base stations in the area.

The system illustrated in may be adapted to carry out the method of managing the load within a cellular network. In particular processor may be configured to control the resources of the network in response to a determined load on a particular resource e.g. a base station of the network.

As will be appreciated by the skilled person details of the above embodiments may be varied without departing from the scope of the present invention which is to be limited only by the appended claims.

For example the NUR data may contain other information. This may include GPS or other location data obtained from the mobile device and recorded at various stages and times during a call.

NUR data may include call detail records CDR generated recorded and stored for particular events especially related to calls and SMS transmissions. For data events the NUR data may be xDR records generated for similar purposes. In other words specific implementations of the methods and systems described throughout may use CDR and or xDR data as the network usage records. Furthermore NUR may include event records other than CDR and or XDR data.

Many combinations modifications or alterations to the features of the above embodiments will be readily apparent to the skilled person and are intended to form part of the invention. For example any of the features described as specifically relating to one embodiment may be used in any other embodiment by making the appropriate changes.

