---

title: Certificate of deposit consolidation
abstract: A method of monitoring a certificate of deposit includes providing a computer having a processor and receiving information related to a certificate of deposit of a user. The method also includes monitoring, using the processor, the certificate of deposit as it matures, and advising the user regarding maturity of the certificate of deposit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08626635&OS=08626635&RS=08626635
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08626635
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121227
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 327 546 filed Dec. 15 2011 now allowed which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 100 675 filed on Apr. 10 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 099 349 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 100 684 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 100 693 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 100 701 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 100 703 all of which are filed on Apr. 10 2008 and now abandoned. The disclosures of these applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A certificate of deposit CD is a time deposit a financial product commonly offered to consumers by banks thrift institutions and credit unions. Such CDs are similar to savings accounts in that they are insured and thus virtually risk free. A CD has a specific fixed term often three months six months or one to five years and usually a fixed interest rate. It is intended that the CD be held until maturity at which time the money may be withdrawn together with the accrued interest.

Commonly institutions mail a notice to the CD holder shortly before the CD matures requesting directions. The notice usually offers the choice of withdrawing the principal and accumulated interest or rolling it over depositing it into a new CD . Generally a window is allowed after maturity where the CD holder can cash in the CD without penalty. In the absence of such directions it is common for the institution to roll over the CD automatically once again tying up the money for a period of time though the CD holder may be able to specify at the time the CD is opened to not roll over the CD .

Some people have a lot of CDs at a lot of institutions. Managing the CDs may be complex and time consuming. Additionally people may have difficulty determining what to do with a CD s proceeds when the CD matures.

A user may schedule certificates of deposit to be consolidated at maturity into an annuity long term care insurance or life insurance by an institution. A consolidation button or icon may be provided on a web page that is accessible to a user. The user may select the consolidation button or icon to schedule their CDs for consolidation.

In an implementation a questionnaire may be provided to a user to determine whether the user is eligible for CD consolidation and to gather information pertaining to the user s CDs. A user may confer with a representative of the institution to ensure compliance and or accuracy.

In an implementation the user may provide information pertaining to their certificates of deposit such as amount and maturity dates to the institution. In response the institution may provide recommendations to the user regarding consolidation of the CDs by rolling them into annuities or insurance.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An institution system associated with or otherwise maintained by an institution such as a financial services institution may include a consolidation processor that may process a request to consolidate one or more CDs from a user computing device associated with a user . The consolidation processor may retrieve information from storage such as information storage and user storage and use the information in processing the request to consolidate the user s CDs. The consolidation processor may also store information pertaining to the user s CDs in storage such as information storage and user storage .

A consolidation plan generator may generate a CD consolidation plan pertaining to the user s CDs and provide the consolidation plan to the user via the user computing device . The consolidation plan generator may receive information from the user via the user computing device the consolidation processor and from information storage and user storage for example.

The consolidation plan generator may use tools calculators applications and aggregators for example to generate a consolidation plan. In an implementation the consolidation plan generator may include one or more of a portfolio planner a financial assessment tool a budget generating tool an asset allocation tool a life insurance determination calculator a retirement advice generator bank calculators debt analyzers retirement income planners etc. The consolidation plan generator may evaluate user information e.g. the personal information and the financial information pertaining to the user and consolidation plan that may comprise financial advice and or recommendations for the user .

Information storage may contain information pertaining to users who have accounts or products hosted by the institution system for example. Information storage may include data that may be used in the generation of a consolidation plan for the user s CDs and may be used to process CDs for consolidation. User storage may contain information directed to users such as name address marital status account information products owned etc. for example.

The institution system may generate and provide a questionnaire to the user that requests information from the user such as financial objectives information pertaining to the user s CDs other financial products owned by the user current income investments risk tolerance expenses tax returns insurance coverage retirement programs estate plans and other pertinent information that may be used in the consolidation of the user s CDs and or to generate a consolidation plan that meets the user s overall or specific financial agenda. The questionnaire may be pre filled or personalized with data already known to the institution system pertaining to the user perhaps from existing accounts that the user has with the institution system . The institution system may generate a consolidation plan based at least in part on the questionnaire.

Information directed to CDs and CD consolidation may be provided via a website to the user computing device associated with a user . For purposes of clarity and simplicity an applicant for CD consolidation may be referred to herein as a user. Thus any reference to a user herein also includes any type of applicant institution member or prospective member or the like.

In an implementation instead of hosting the website the institution system may comprise a conventional application server hosting a proprietary online service accessible only by a private network. In any event the institution system may have appropriate security mechanisms in place to prevent unauthorized third parties from intercepting the user s information.

The user may provide data to the institution system via the user computing device . The user computing device may be a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a mobile phone for example or any type of personal computer PC . The user computing device and the institution system may be connected over a network . It is contemplated that the network may be any type of private or public communication network such as for example an intranet Internet local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless fidelity WiFi network cellular connection plain old telephone service POTS and the like. An example user computing device is described with respect to .

As described further herein one of the service representatives associated with the institution system may confer with a user about CD consolidation. Such a conference may be via an Internet chat session or a telephone for example. Although only two service representatives are shown in it is contemplated that any number of service representatives may be associated with the institution system .

In an implementation a user interface module may receive content from the consolidation processor or the consolidation plan generator and format one or more pages of content as a unified graphical presentation that may be provided to a user computing device . The page s of content may be directed to CD consolidation information and may be provided to the user computing device via the website associated with the institution system . It will be appreciated that in an embodiment a service representative of the institution may access the user interface module or the underlying CD consolidation information to assist the user with any questions the user may have and or to confirm the compliance and accuracy of the information for example.

When the user accesses the website using a web browser on the user computing device they may be presented with financial services information such as CD information and or CD consolidation information via the page s of content . The information may be displayed on one or more web pages further described with respect to for example. The user may enter information into the web pages via a web browser on the user computing device .

The content may be personalized to the user using information retrieved from the user storage for example. Personalization may include presentation of the page s of content and or functionality of the page s of content . For example a graphical representation displayed on the page s of content may be pre filled with some information pertaining to the user such as name address policy number etc. In an implementation personalization may be directed to CDs and or other products that the user may own and may provide specific information on the user s CDs and or other products such as amounts maturity dates etc. for example. Personalization is not limited to CD or CD consolidation and may be directed to any type of data information product service advertisement etc.

As described further herein in an implementation the user may select a consolidation button or icon presented on a web page. Selecting the consolidation button or icon allows the user to consolidate their CDs if the user meets criteria established by the institution for example. The user may be provided with one or more documents online via the website or via email for example that they can electronically sign. Any known electronic signature technique may be used. The user may electronically sign the one or more documents and provide them electronically to the institution system via email or the website for example.

A user access system may be implemented as a web server in an implementation. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to and maintenance of their financial advice recommendations and or financial plan such as a CD consolidation plan can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation Hyper Text Mark Up Language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

In an implementation the institution may be a financial services institution having a financial services website. On the website in a common space the user may be presented with financial advice recommendations and or a financial plan such as a CD consolidation plan.

The institution system may comprise one or more computing devices . The user computing device may allow the user to interact with the computing device s . The computing device s may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device s including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the user products and or services may be stored in storage or other storage for example.

Example software modules may include modules for sending and receiving information between the institution system and the user requesting and retrieving information from storage information storage and user storage processing CD consolidation requests and generating web pages described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

The screen shot may comprise a common area that may include items such as login information and prompts and contact information. The common area may include data pertaining to products rates and other information provided by or available through the financial services institution for example. Such a common area is optional and may comprise any information or data. The information and data presented in are examples only.

A CD area may be provided on the screen shot that is directed to CDs and may be informational and or contain promotional material about CDs and CD consolidation. A consolidation button or icon may be provided on the screen shot . The consolidation button or icon may be selected by a user. Selecting the consolidation button or icon allows the user to consolidate their CDs at maturity into an annuity long term care insurance or life insurance for example as described further herein. A user may select the consolidation button or icon by highlighting it and or clicking on it for example.

It is contemplated that the consolidation button or icon may be provided and displayed on multiple web pages of a website. In an implementation the consolidation button or icon is only displayed for certain users based on criteria pertaining to each user for example. Example criteria may be based on whether the user already has an annuity long term care insurance and or life insurance or whether the user has a certain amount of debt etc. After a user logs in to the institution system or a website associated with the institution system for example the consolidation processor in for example may assist in determining whether or not the consolidation button or icon is to be displayed for a certain user based on information pertaining to the user. The information pertaining to the user may be retrieved from storage and or provided by the user e.g. in response to questions provided by the institution system.

In another implementation the consolidation button or icon may be displayed to all users. It may then be determined after the user has selected the consolidation button or icon whether or not CD consolidation is appropriate for that user. Such a determination may be made by the consolidation processor and or a service representative for example in conjunction with information pertaining to the user. The example information data and items shown in are examples only and are not intended to be limiting.

Assuming that a consolidation button or icon is to be displayed on the web page e.g. based on criteria pertaining to the user displayed to ail users etc. the consolidation button or icon is displayed at operation . The user may then select the consolidation button or icon at operation . Such a selection may take the form of highlighting the button or icon clicking on the button or icon or any other known form of selection. At operation the user s CDs may be scheduled for consolidation examples of which are described further herein.

In an implementation at operation it may be determined whether the user is eligible for CD consolidation. For example the institution system may receive information pertaining to the user s personal and financial situations from storage and or from the user and based on this information determine whether the user is eligible for CD consolidation. A CD may be consolidated into an annuity e.g. an immediate annuity a fixed annuity or a variable annuity long term care insurance and or life insurance by rolling the proceeds of a matured CD into the purchase of an annuity or insurance for example. In an implementation if the user already has these products then the system may determine that the user is not eligible for CD consolidation. Alternatively or additionally if the user has a certain amount of debt or meets other predetermined personal and or financial criteria the system may determine that the user is not eligible for CD consolidation.

If it is determined that the user is not eligible for CD consolidation the user may be notified via the website or email for example and or a service representative may contact the user at operation .

If the user is eligible for CD consolidation as determined at operation or if operation is not implemented as it may be optional processing continues at operation . A questionnaire may be provided to the user at operation . The questionnaire may request information from the user that may be analyzed and used to further determine whether the user is eligible for CD consolidation e.g. the questionnaire may ask questions to determine if the user has adequate emergency funds etc. may be used to schedule CDs for consolidation into certain products upon maturity may be used to docket maturity dates into a calendaring system so that the user may be advised when each CD is about to mature e.g. 2 months priority to maturity 1 month prior to maturity 10 days prior to maturity etc. or has matured on the day of maturity or shortly thereafter etc. Prior to providing the questionnaire to the user the questionnaire may be pre filled or personalized with financial and or personal data that is known to the institution system about the user such as the user s name and known CDs for example. This information may be retrieved from storage associated with the institution system.

The questionnaire may be electronically provided to the user via the website or email for example. The user may then fill out the questionnaire responding to any questions or requests for information contained in the questionnaire and electronically provide the filled out questionnaire back to the institution system at operation . The user may provide responses to the questionnaire that contain information about the user s CDs such as the CD account number name of the financial institution that issued the CD routing ABA number and date of maturity. The user may provide the questionnaire via the website email or any other electronic means.

In an implementation at operation it may be determined whether the user is still eligible for CD consolidation. This operation may be similar to operation and may be based on the information in the user s response to the questionnaire. If it is determined that the user is not eligible for CD consolidation e.g. the user does not have adequate emergency funds etc. the user may be notified via the website or email for example and or a service representative may contact the user at operation .

In an implementation if the user is eligible for CD consolidation as determined at operation or if operation is not implemented as it may be optional processing continues at operation . At operation the user and a service representative may confer to discuss the CD consolidation to provide a confirmation number to confirm accuracy of the CDs and their related information and to ensure compliance with any applicable disclosure laws for example. Such a conference may take place by telephone or via an Internet chat session for example and may be initiated by the user or the service representative. It is contemplated that such a conference may be optional.

At operation CDs may be scheduled for consolidation and or CDs may be monitored for maturity. Regarding consolidation the CDs may upon maturity be scheduled to roll over or otherwise have their assets transferred into a previously selected annuity such as an immediate annuity a fixed annuity or a variable annuity or an insurance policy such as long term care insurance or single premium life insurance.

CDs may also be monitored by the institution system and as they reach maturity the user may be advised or reminded that the CDs are reaching maturity or have matured. The institution system may send such an advisory or reminder by email telephone or other means for example. The institution system may also provide one or more recommendations or options to the user for rolling over or otherwise transferring the assets from the maturing CD. The recommendations or options may include purchasing one or more annuities and or types of insurance. The recommendations or options may contain general information and or may be tailored to the user based on the personal and financial information pertaining to the user.

At operation the institution system retrieves user information from storage. The user information may comprise personal information and or financial information. The institution system may request additional information from the user at operation . Such additional information may be personal and or financial information that the institution system does not have in storage and that may be useful to the consolidation plan generator in the generation of a consolidation plan. At operation the user may provide the additional information to the institution system. The additional information may be used by the consolidation plan generator in conjunction with the retrieved user information to generate a consolidation plan at operation .

A consolidation plan may contain information recommendations advice and or reminders for example regarding consolidating or rolling over some or all of the user s CDs as they mature. Consolidation or roll over may take the form of using the assets of the CD when mature to purchase one or more annuities and or one or more types of insurance. A consolidation plan may provide recommendations as to how much insurance the user should consider purchasing and what type of annuities the user should consider purchasing. The consolidation plan may then be provided to the user via a website or email for example.

The user may review the consolidation plan and sign an authorization form to authorize the financial institution to proceeds with the consolidation plan. The authorization form may be presented to the user via a website email facsimile etc. In an implementation the user may electronically sign the authorization form using any known electronic signature technique. The user may send the signed authorization form to the institution system where it is received at operation . The institution system may then implement the consolidation plan e.g. by sending a transfer form at maturity to the institution that issued a CD with instructions to forward the account to the institution system.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or nonremovable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and includes both volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. Ali these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

