---

title: Synchronization of off-line reports and off-line mobile content packages
abstract: Provided are techniques for presenting a data visualization on an off-line mobile device. A report specification is parsed to detect a drill definition to navigate from a report viewer to an interactive visualizer. Data package report specifications are generated to create data and metadata. Data package report output is obtained for each of the data package report specifications. Data and metadata in each data package report output are converted. The converted data and metadata are stored into a data package. A mobile content package is created using the data package and a visualization specification. A report and the mobile content package are delivered to the off-line mobile device. The report viewer is used to present the report. In response to a user interacting with a user interface control on the presented report, the interactive visualizer is launched to present the data visualization using the mobile content package.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384251&OS=09384251&RS=09384251
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09384251
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120411
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to synchronization of off line reports and off line mobile content packages for data and metadata consistency.

Data synchronization appears in many areas. For example databases may synchronize with each other to maintain copies of information. As another example a website may be downloaded by following all links of the website to create a complete off line application. The new generation of tablet devices are unique in that they have both the processing power to process data stored in a local database and have been built from the ground up to support browsing the internet. As such a new domain of application is emerging in which the application spans a combination of web pages web content and data visualization applications that process data stored locally on the tablet. A data visualization application may be described as an application that provides graphical representations of numeric and text data e.g. a graph chart cross tabulations etc. . When working in an application that is combined in this way it is useful to the user to have consistent data and metadata in all presentations of the data.

Some conventional systems put all the data necessary for both views on a single device in this case the tablet and in addition to using the data for the data visualization use the data to generate the web page view. However the web page view may be drawn from a larger set of data too large to place on the tablet and the size of a generalized web page generation program such as a report output generator or a report server may be too large for the tablet device technology.

Some conventional systems provide metadata for both the off line web page and the off line database. This metadata includes information such as timestamps that the user may use to manually enforce a refresh of data as needed.

Some conventional systems manually schedule the creation of each piece of related data on the server side which would necessitate the manual management of the separate related data pieces on the server side by the report author or an administrator.

Some conventional systems restrict the product to one domain of information storage using only a family of web pages produced on the server and cached locally.

Provided are a computer implemented method computer program product and system for presenting a data visualization on an off line mobile device. A report specification is parsed to detect a drill definition to navigate from a report viewer to an interactive visualizer. Data package report specifications are generated to create data and metadata for use by the interactive visualizer. Data package report output is obtained for each of the data package report specifications. Data and metadata in each data package report output are converted to a form to be used by the interactive visualizer. The converted data and metadata are stored into a data package. A mobile content package is created using the data package and a visualization specification. A report and the mobile content package are delivered to the off line mobile device. The report viewer is used to present the report. In response to a user interacting with a user interface control on the presented report the interactive visualizer is launched to present the data visualization using the mobile content package.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

Embodiments keep multiple related data views synchronized for a consistent off line experience on a mobile device where the data spans the joint domains of a report output as represented by a web page and a set of data e.g. represented as a database extracted from the same source data as the report output.

The content store stores one or more report specifications one or more mobile content package specifications and one or more mobile source data report specifications . The mobile server includes a mobile content package generator and the mobile content package generator may request and store copies of the one or more report specifications the one or more mobile content package specifications and the one or more mobile source data report specifications . The report output generator generates report output . In addition the mobile content package generator may generate one or more data package report specifications and the report output generator may create one or more data package report outputs from the one or more data package report specifications . In certain embodiments the generated data package report specifications are based on the mobile source data report specifications .

The mobile device may be for example a tablet computer or a mobile phone. The mobile device includes a mobile client application one or more reports and one or more mobile content packages .

The mobile client application includes one or more viewers. Each of the viewers allows users to interact with data e.g. by selecting pages zooming changing a level of data of the data navigating through the data etc. . In certain embodiments the viewers include a report viewer and an interactive visualizer . The report viewer is used to present a report . In certain embodiments the report is presented in Hypertext Markup Language HTML within a web browser plug in. The interactive visualizer presents data visualizations from the mobile content package . The viewers allow a user to navigate between viewers. For example a user may navigate from the report viewer to the interactive visualizer and vice versa.

The mobile server serves as a central delivery server to coordinate delivery of information e.g. a web page from the report output generator or any information generating service to the mobile device .

The report specification may be described as a parseable specification that defines the information to be presented in a viewer e.g. as a web page .

The mobile client application interacts with the mobile server and presents off line both reports e.g. web pages and data visualizations based on data stored locally on the mobile device . In certain embodiments off line may be described as the reports and data visualizations being accessed without the mobile device being connected to a network e.g. the internet . That is the mobile device is off line. In addition the mobile client application intercepts any Uniform Resource Locator URL links used by the user in the report viewer and then decides on a course of action such as navigating to the interactive visualizer drilling through to another report or accessing other services on the mobile device e.g. electronic mail etc. .

In the report specification the specification author may define the ability to navigate from one viewer e.g. a web browser to another viewer i.e. a separate data visualization environment . The report specification allows a navigation path to another viewer to be defined in an abstract way and for data from a report e.g. web page to be identified as parameters to the other viewer.

A mobile content package specification includes metadata that specifies the relationships within the data described by the mobile source data report specification . Furthermore the mobile content package specification specifies properties of the data described by the mobile source data report specification . In certain embodiments the properties may describe that a column of data represents time and can be laid out in a sequence by the interactive visualizer whether a column represents a category or a continuous measure etc. In certain embodiments the relationships may describe parent child relationships or level of detail to allow the interactive visualizer to drill up and drill down. The mobile content package specification may be described as a specification for the target analytical data visualization. illustrates in a block diagram further details of the mobile content package specification in accordance with certain embodiments. The mobile content package specification includes a visualization specification and a data specification . The visualization specification describes visualization properties e.g. user interface options default presentation layout etc. . The data specification describes the relationships inside the data e.g. that a column of data represents time and can be laid out in a sequence by the interactive visualizer whether a column represents a category or a continuous measure etc. .

The mobile source data report specification defines the data to be deployed to the mobile device where this data is optimized for the data visualization that the data will serve. For example the optimization may be for both speed and size. The mobile content package specification may identify parameters that are to be supplied from the report e.g. a web page .

The mobile content package generator parses the report specification and finds one or more mobile content package specifications identified in the report specification . The mobile content package generator then retrieves the mobile source data report specification based on the mobile content package specification . Then the mobile content package generator generates the data package report specifications . The mobile content package generator sends the data package report specifications to the report output generator . The report output generator executes the data package report specifications to create data package report outputs . The mobile content package generator converts the data package report outputs from the report output generator into a data package optimized for the data visualization to be viewed on the mobile device .

The mobile content package generator parses the report specification to convert the drill through elements to URL links that the mobile client application interpret as links to the interactive visualizer .

The mobile content package is generated based on the visualization specification and the data specification in the mobile content package specification . illustrates in a block diagram further details of the mobile content package in accordance with certain embodiments. The mobile content package includes a visualization specification which is a copy of the visualization specification from the mobile content package specification and the data package . The data package contains data and metadata that may be used by the interactive visualizer to present that data. In certain embodiments the data package is a database.

Embodiments allow for linking web page technology to data visualization technology off line on the mobile device . Embodiments allow the viewers to be working from data that is consistent in that it is drawn from the same data source using the same report output generator from the same time period. Embodiments perform this function of drawing data from the same report output generator automatically without the intervention of the end user or a system administrator. Also with embodiments the resulting report and mobile content package are based on common metadata and data. This means that sophisticated data information such as aggregation is presented consistently across the two viewers .

In block the report output generator executes the stored report specification from block to create report output . In certain embodiments an end user runs the report specification that was created. In certain alternative embodiments the report specification executes as part of a report schedule.

In block the mobile content package generator receives the report output from the report output generator . illustrates in a block diagram the mobile content package generator requesting the report output from the report output generator and receiving the report output from the report output generator in accordance with certain embodiments.

In block the mobile content package generator retrieves a report specification . In certain embodiments the mobile content package generator retrieves the report specification from the report output . In certain alternative embodiments the mobile content package generator retrieves the report specification from the content store . illustrates in a block diagram the mobile content package generator requesting the report specification from the content store and receiving the report specification from the content store in accordance with certain embodiments.

In block the mobile content package generator parses the report specification and detects the presence of drill definitions referring to the interactive visualizer . From block processing continues to block .

In block the mobile content package generator retrieves one or more mobile content package specifications identified by the drill definitions. illustrates in a block diagram the mobile content package generator requesting the mobile content package specification from the content store and receiving the mobile content package specification from the content store in accordance with certain embodiments.

In block the mobile content package generator retrieves the mobile source data report specification as identified by the mobile content package specification . illustrates in a block diagram the mobile content package generator requesting the mobile source data report specification from the content store and receiving mobile source data report specification from the content store in accordance with certain embodiments.

In block the mobile content package generator generates a series of data package report specifications to create data and metadata for use by the interactive visualizer . In block the mobile content package generator interacts with the report output generator to obtain the data package report outputs for each of the generated data package report specifications . From block processing continues to block . illustrates in a block diagram the mobile content package generator obtaining data package report outputs in accordance with certain embodiments. In particular in the mobile content package generator generates a data package report specification and a data package report specification and requests the report output generator to execute the data package report specification and the data package report specification . The report output generator executes the data package report specification and the data package report specification to generate a data package report output and a data package report output respectively. The report output generator sends the data package report output and the data package report output to the mobile content package generator .

In block the mobile content package generator converts the data and metadata in the data package report outputs to a form to be used by e.g. desired by the interactive visualizer and places the data and metadata into a data package .

In block the mobile server creates the report from the report output . In certain embodiments the report may be the same as the report output . In certain embodiments the report is an optimized version of the report output e.g. which may load faster on the mobile device .

In block the mobile content package generator creates the mobile content package . In certain embodiments the mobile content package generator creates the mobile content package by extracting the visualization specification from the mobile content package specification to form the visualization specification and combining that visualization specification with the data package . From block processing continues to block .

In block the mobile server delivers the report and the mobile content package to the mobile client application on the mobile device . In certain embodiments the mobile server delivers the report and the mobile content package to the mobile device as a single package.

In block in response to user input the report viewer presents the report . In block when a user interacts with a user interface control such as a link or menu on the presented report e.g. on a displayed web page on the mobile device the mobile client application launches the interactive visualizer to present the appropriate data visualization using the data and metadata from the mobile content package .

An MHT format represents a Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension MIME HTML referred to as MHTML format. In certain embodiments the report is in an MHT format and the report viewer is an MHT report viewer. In certain embodiments the mobile content package is implemented as a Structured Query Language SQL database. The mobile content package may be eXtensible Markup Language XML files with meta content such as error and version information. The MHT report may be decorated enough to understand what mobile content package it is drilling to.

Embodiments allow users to move from data visualizations such as a graph chart cross tabulations etc. on a web page to visualizations rendered using platform specific Application Programming Interfaces APIs based on the off line content with a consistent experience. With embodiments using a single report output generator results in data consistency for data computations such as aggregation or forecasting.

Embodiments allow the data taken from databases by the report output generator to be connected to web pages and then delivered to the mobile device . Embodiments provide cross application data synchronization.

Embodiments integrate client application processing of a database of data derived from the report output generator to show native data visualizations on a mobile device and where both the delivered database and web pages are synchronized.

Embodiments keep an extracted database synchronized with a family of web pages for off line consumption.

Embodiments use an authored report specification to generate related artifacts on the mobile server at one time so that a consistent synchronized package of data is sent to the mobile device and can be used without subsequent conversation with the mobile server .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device solid state memory magnetic tape or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the embodiments of the invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational processing e.g. operations or steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The code implementing the described operations may further be implemented in hardware logic or circuitry e.g. an integrated circuit chip Programmable Gate Array PGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC etc. The hardware logic may be coupled to a processor to perform operations.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention.

Further although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may be configured to work in alternate orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the present invention need not include the device itself.

The illustrated operations of show certain events occurring in a certain order. In alternative embodiments certain operations may be performed in a different order modified or removed. Moreover operations may be added to the above described logic and still conform to the described embodiments. Further operations described herein may occur sequentially or certain operations may be processed in parallel. Yet further operations may be performed by a single processing unit or by distributed processing units.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the present invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Input Output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. may be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers .

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters .

The computer architecture may be coupled to storage e.g. any type of storage device a non volatile storage area such as magnetic disk drives optical disk drives a tape drive etc. . The storage may comprise an internal storage device or an attached or network accessible storage. Computer programs in storage may be loaded into the memory elements and executed by a processor in a manner known in the art.

The computer architecture may include fewer components than illustrated additional components not illustrated herein or some combination of the components illustrated and additional components. The computer architecture may comprise any computing device known in the art such as a mainframe server personal computer workstation laptop handheld computer telephony device network appliance virtualization device storage controller etc.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the embodiments be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Since many embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the embodiments reside in the claims hereinafter appended or any subsequently filed claims and their equivalents.

