---

title: Custom reward for viral help in game
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for executing a game. One method includes an operation for detecting a petition for help from a first player to a second player to obtain a first game asset for the first player. The petition is sent to the second player notifying the second player that a game asset needed by the second player would be awarded to the second player for helping the first player. Further, the method includes operations for detecting that the second player has performed a game operation to help the first player based on the petition, and for determining a second game asset that the second player needs for making progress in the game in response to the game operation to help. After the determination, the second game asset is awarded to the second player.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533229&OS=09533229&RS=09533229
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09533229
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 457 316 filed Apr. 26 2012 and entitled DYNAMIC QUESTS IN GAME which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present embodiments relate to methods for executing games in a distributed environment and more particularly methods systems and computer programs for creating custom rewards in a game.

Same games provide challenges to players where the challenges entail the completion of one or more tasks. As the player completes each challenge the player receives rewards and new challenges are provided to continue the game. In some games players interact with other players to make progress. For example if a player needs a widget the player may ask another player for help to get the widget what is sometimes referred to as a viral request. As a reward for being helpful the helping player may also get a widget in return. However the player that receives the help request may not need a widget and the player is not motivated to provide help beyond the satisfaction of being a good friend because the potential reward has no value in the game.

In order to provide incentives for players to complete viral requests for help a system is desired that would provide incentives to motivate players to provide help to other players.

Methods devices systems and computer programs are presented for executing a game. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a method an apparatus a system a device or a computer program on a computer readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment a method includes an operation for detecting a petition for help from a first player to a second player to obtain a first game asset for the first player. The petition is sent to the second player notifying the second player that a game asset needed by the second player would be awarded to the second player for helping the first player. Further the method includes operations for detecting that the second player has performed a game operation to help the first player based on the petition and for determining a second game asset that the second player needs for making progress in the game in response to the game operation to help. After the determination the second game asset is awarded to the second player.

In another embodiment a system for executing a game includes a processor a game wish manager and a game manager. The game manager is operable to detect a petition for help from a first player to a second player to obtain a first game asset for the first player and to send the petition to the second player notifying the second player that a game asset needed by the second player would be awarded to the second player for helping the first player. Further the game manager is operable to detect that the second player has performed a game operation to help the first player based on the petition. In addition the game wish manager is operable to select a second game asset from a wish list associated with the second player and to award the second game asset to the second player.

In yet another embodiment a method includes operations for detecting a petition for help from a first player to a second player to obtain a first game asset for the first player and for determining a second game asset that the second player needs for making progress in the game. The petition is sent to the second player notifying the second player that the second game asset would be awarded to the second player for helping the first player. After detecting that the second player has performed a game operation to help the first player based on the petition the second game asset is awarded to the second player where operations of the method are executed by a processor.

Other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following embodiments describe a method and apparatus for executing a game and creating custom rewards in response to viral requests.

It will be apparent that the present embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present embodiments.

The fiction is a sort textual description that provides background information regarding the quest to be performed. For example the section may describe a problem with the player s avatar or with some other character in the game which requires the player to perform some tasks in order to solve this problem.

Each task includes an action that must be performed by the user in the game. In one embodiment some tasks are related to an object and completion of the tasks requires performing an action on the object. For example one object may be a cow and a related task may be tending the cow. Other tasks do not require performing an action on an object such as for example visiting a neighbor. 

The action may have to be done once or may have to be repeated multiple times in order to complete the task in the quest. A counter indicates how many times the player has performed the action and the total number of times required to complete this task e.g. 5 30 means that the player has performed the action such as clearing wildflowers 5 times out of 30 . Further the task includes an unlock option to complete e.g. unlock the task by spending game currency e.g. gold horseshoes . In one embodiment an icon is associated with the task and provides a graphical representation related to the task.

Some tasks may be viral tasks which require the cooperation from another player. In one embodiment a button provides the player the option to open a dialogue to originate a request for one or more friends to help with the viral task. A quest may include one or more non viral tasks and one or more viral tasks.

In one embodiment the quest includes a hint that gives the player a clue on how to complete one or more of the tasks. Further the quest includes one or more rewards which the player gains when the quest is completed e.g. all the tasks are completed. The reward may include a new asset for the player or an increase in one or more of the assets currently owned by the player. For example the reward may include adding virtual currency adding energy to play the game getting a new cow obtaining an item for a collection in the game etc.

In one embodiment as the player gets quests assigned the player gets assigned different tasks to complete the quest. For example player is building a Livestock Pen and needs one or more Wooden Posts . In one embodiment the tasks requires help from friends i.e. viral help to complete the task. If the player asks friends for help the player may generate a request or a feed .

Game feeds appear in the feed section and are posted by the requester in the requester s feed. Friends that have access to the requester s feed will see that the friend is asking for help. In one embodiment the feed includes the name of the requester and a title for the feed a message giving details of the kind of help that the friend needs and information about the feed such as the time that the fee was posted and buttons to provide feedback on the feed.

The petition for help may also be submitted via a request. Requests are also petitions for help but requests are sent to specific one or more individuals. The requests appear as reminders next to the game icon or in one embodiment in the notification icon of the social network. In one embodiment requests appear on the left panel of the webpage . The requests may be grouped by game. Each request includes an icon a name of the game or some other form of identifier for the requester and the counter which indicates how many different requests have been originated in the corresponding game for this user e.g. John John in the embodiment of webpage .

In one embodiment if the friend clicks on the feed or the request the friend is sent into the game e.g. the game is started in the webpage or in some other computer program and after the friend provides the help in the game then the requester of the help gets the requested part and the friend e.g. the helper also gets the same requested part. By giving helpers a reward helpers are encouraged to help in order to make progress in their own games.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different screen layouts different presentations for the petitions for help etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Each request may include an icon or photo of the requester and icon associated with the game task or item needed or gifted in the game e.g. Huckleberry seeds . In addition the request may include a short message describing the request and a button e.g. Accept to initiate an action associated with the request.

However sometimes a player may need an item e.g. a wooden post but the player being asked for help does not need the same item. For example the player may be looking for pulley parts not wooden posts. In this case the player is not incentivized to provide the help because helping the friend does not help the player.

In one embodiment universal virals are used to solve the problem of players looking for different parts. A universal viral is a petition for help in a game from a first player to a second player or to a plurality of players to obtain a first game item where the reward to the second player for helping the first player is a second game item that may be different from the first game item awarded to the first player. In other words the rewards for the first player and the second players are different although in some cases the rewards may happen to be the same if both players are looking for the same game item.

In some social networks the posts placed on the feed are presented in the same format to all those with access to that post and there is no customization of the feed based on the reader. The universal viral allows the placement of a request for help in the feed that is relevant to all those reading the feed but with an end reward that may be different. For example if the feed included a message such as Help Ella to get a Wooden Post and you will get Nails then the feed would be relevant to those needing nails but not to other players that do not need nails.

In one embodiment the universal viral allows the posting of a help request without committing to a specific reward for the helper although other embodiments may describe a specific reward that is customized for each recipient. The actual reward will be determined after the helper provides help as discussed in more detail below. In one embodiment the universal viral e.g. Helping Hands is generic and may be applied to any game fiction. Although different potential helpers may need different things the feed looks the same to all of them.

In the embodiment of the feed indicates that Ella needs a Helping Hand without specifically defining what Ella needs. In addition the feed indicates that if the friend provides help the friend will get What You Need which is also a generic or universal message without specificity to the reward to be gained.

In return for helping the friend is promised that it is guaranteed you will be rewarded in kind which means that the player will receive a reward customized for the player. As in the actual reward is not specified because this is a universal viral that allows the helper to receive a reward that is desirable or helpful in the helper s game.

In one embodiment the game gives the player an opportunity to select the reward for helping. After offering the help the game provides a list of possible items needed by the player and the player is able to choose which item to obtain as reward. In another embodiment the game selects the item to be awarded and the player has no choice for selecting the reward. This way the game managers are able to control the availability and distribution of certain items. For example there may be certain game items that are difficult to obtain requiring the accomplishment of difficult tasks or the purchase of these items with game currency. If the player is allowed to select a reward then the difficult to obtain items would be easier to obtain after providing viral help.

In one embodiment the universal viral request includes a message specifying the item requested by the requester and the specific reward to be obtained by the helper. For example in the embodiment of the game describes that player David needs a pulley and the reward for the player receiving the request i.e. the requested would get Ginger Ale.

As discussed above it is easier to place a message in the feed of the social network specifying that the player will get what he needs than actually specifying the specific reward. However requests are sent directly from one player to another in the social network therefore it is relatively easier to specify the reward for helping in a request.

Different combinations to the specificity of the request and the reward are also possible. For example in one embodiment the request may be generic e.g. John needs a Helping Hand and the reward may be a specific e.g. You will get Pulley Parts if you help John .

The player may also share the items in the wish list with other players by choosing the game button Share . Once the player shares the wish list the wish list may be share in the game or posted on the feed of the player in the social network or sent as a request to one or more friends in the social network. After viewing the items needed by friends players are able to bargain or work cooperatively in order to obtain items needed by players and their friends.

The items in the wish list may be used in order to determine the reward for helping with the universal viral. In one embodiment upon completing a universal viral help action the player is presented with the wish list and the player is able to select one item from the wish list as a reward. In another embodiment the player is presented with a subset of the items in the wish list selected by the game and the player is only allowed to select from this subset of items. This allows the game provider to control which items are being used as rewards for universal virals and the availability or difficulty to obtain of certain items.

In yet another embodiment the game selects one of the items from the wish list of the reward and the player is not given the choice of selecting which item from the wish list to obtain. In one embodiment if a player keeps the wish list short in order to obtain a particular item that the player desires the game may deny the reward from the wish list and instead provide another item from the game to the player.

If the friend helps Anna then the game will select an item from the helper s wish list and give the item to the helper. In another embodiment the helper is able to select one item from the wish list as the reward.

In one embodiment the game keeps an internal wish list which includes one or more items needed by a player to complete one or more quests. The internal wish list is not visible to the player and the internal wish list may be used with Helping Hands requests or feeds. In this case the game may promise that the helper will get something she needs e.g. the embodiment of discussed above and the reward is given from the internally maintained wish list.

In one embodiment the game includes all the items needed by the player in any quest in the internal wish list. In another embodiment the game determines which items are added to the internal wish list. For example some items may not be added to internal wish list as the game developer may want to have some special items that are harder to obtain or that must be obtained in a specific way e.g. to learn certain skill in the game or for any other reason.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different layouts different messages titles presentations etc. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

Each item in the wish list includes one or more of an item or element identifier a creation timestamp indicating a time when the element was added to the wish list a name for the item e.g. wooden post a count of the total number of items needed to fulfill the requirement to complete a task associated with this item e.g. five wooden posts required to complete this task within a quest a member of the items still needed to fulfill the task e.g. two more wooden posts are needed to complete this task a criticality measure which provides a value associated with how needed is this item complete the task e.g. if this is the last item needed to complete a quest the criticality measure will have a high value a difficulty value identifying a measure of how difficult is to obtain this item in the game a cost required by this item in the game etc.

In one embodiment the wish list is linked to an item database that includes the items that may be used to complete tasks in the game. In one embodiment each item in the item database includes one or more of an item identifier item name difficulty to obtain the date the item was created etc. In one embodiment some of the data associated with a particular item is not kept in the wish list and instead a pointer to the associated item in the item database is kept.

In one embodiment the wish list is organized as a queue and the queue stores the list of items needed by the player. When a player gets a reward from a universal viral the game selects the item with the highest priority in the wish list queue. The highest priority might be determined according to different rules. In the case of a FIFO First In First Out queue the oldest item in the queue will be selected. In another embodiment the priority is determined based on the criticality measure of the item and the game will award the most critical item to the player. In other embodiments selection rules are used to determine which item is rewarded as discussed in more detail below with reference to .

In one embodiment when a player needs multiple items of the same kind e.g. five wooden posts the game awards an item to the player for each viral help offered until all the needed items are acquired. Then the game selects the next item in the list and starts assigning rewards from the next item until the item is also satisfied.

In one embodiment the player may be able to buy some of the tasks meaning that the player may use game currency to obtain these items. If the player buys these items then the items are taken out of the wish list. Of course if the player also gets some of the items during normal play e.g. a reward for chopping a tree then the items will be taken out of the wish list or the counter associated with the item will be decreased accordingly.

In one embodiment the game utilizes a plurality of rules for selecting the reward given to a player. The rules may be associated with the difficulty to obtain an item how much an item is needed by the player how long has the player needed that item is this the last item needed to complete a task use a degree of randomness to assign easy or difficult to obtain rewards how recently has the item been in the game e.g. newly created items may be harder to obtain how expensive to buy the item is etc.

The rules may be combined in different ways by the game. In one embodiment the rules are assigned weights and the rules are then combined to calculate a score for the possible candidate items to be rewarded. The item with the highest score will be awarded to the player. In another embodiment some rules may not always be applied. For example a rule may be only used if some other rules do not apply to a particular situation in the game.

A flowchart of illustrates a method for granting rewards to players that provide viral help. In operation the selection rules are determined for granting a reward. In addition parameters associated with the determined selection rules are also identified. From operation the method flows to operation where the selection rules are applied to items in a wish list of the player. In one embodiment the wish list is created and managed by the player while in another embodiment the wish list is internal to the game and not visible to the player. The wish list may include all the items needed by the player or a subset of all the items needed. In another embodiment the game may include in the wish list an item that may not be needed by the player yet but that may encourage the player to start a new quest.

In operation a check is made to determine if at least one reward item meets the selection rules. If there is at least one item the method continues to operation where the selected item is granted to the player. If none of the items qualifies the method flows to operation and the reward e.g. wish is not granted to the player. In one embodiment some item is awarded to the player in order to keep the promise from the game that the reward would be granted for helping. The item may be a generic item such as currency or some item that the player has not requested or does not currently need.

From operation or from operation the method flows to operation where the user is notified that an item was granted or that for some reason an item was not granted.

From operation the method flows to operation where the game detects that the second player has performed a game operation to help the first player based on the received request. In one embodiment the request is a universal viral request which may take the form of a feed or a request in a social network. From operation the method flows to operation with a second game asset is determined for rewarding the second player for the viral help in response to the game operation performed in order to help. In one embodiment the second game asset is needed by the second player for making progress in the game.

From operation the method flows to operation where the second game asset is awarded to the second player. In one embodiment the player is notified of the reward via a message placed in the game and in another embodiment the player is notified via a message placed on the social network. It is noted that the operations of the method are executed by a processor.

Computer program interfaces with genie to send information regarding viral requests also referred to as help wanted or to send information regarding help provided to other players help given . In addition computer program may also send information regarding items to be added to the wish list of player and other game related messages. Genie interfaces with computer program to transmit updates regarding viral requests whishes granted and other viral or game related messages.

When a player requests a wish e.g. a desire for certain game item genie adds the wish to wish list database . The wish list database includes information regarding the wish list for each player which includes wish list header information and wish list . Wish list includes one or more wish items and in one embodiment the wish list is organized as a prioritized queue but other implementations are also possible see an exemplary wish list structure with reference to .

In one embodiment when a player helps another player e.g. a viral help a wish is granted from the helping player s wish list. Genie utilizes selection rules to select one item from the wish list and interfaces with game manager to grant the helper the awarded item.

It is noted that the embodiments illustrated in are exemplary. Other embodiments may utilize different update mechanisms different modules or combine the functionality of one or more modules into a single module. The embodiments illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

When a player provides an input into the player s client device the client device may in response send a message via the communications network to the social networking server. The social networking server may update the player profile save the message to a database send messages to other players etc. The social gaming network may include a social graph database which stores player relationships social player profiles player messages and player social data.

The gaming servers host one or more gaming applications and perform the computations necessary to provide the gaming features to the players and clients. One or more gaming databases store data related to the gaming services such as the gaming applications and modules virtual gaming environment data player gaming session data player scores player virtual gaming profiles game stage levels etc. The gaming servers may utilize the data from the gaming databases to perform the computations related to providing gaming services for the players.

Genie Servers manage the rewards for responding to universal virals including the creation tracking expiration abandonment and deletion of rewards. In addition a wish list database holds wish list state information such as the wish list database of .

Each game server has access to one or more game databases for keeping game data. In addition a single database can store game data for one or more online games. Each game server may also include one or more levels of caching. Game data cache is a game data cache for the game data stored in game databases . For increased performance caching may be performed in several levels of caching. For instance data more frequently used is stored in a high priority cache while data requiring less access during a session will be cached and updated less frequently.

The number of game servers changes over time as the gaming platform is an extensible platform that changes the number of game servers according to the load on the gaming infrastructure. As a result the number of game servers will be higher during peak playing times and the number of game servers will be lower during off peak hours. In one embodiment the increase or decrease of bandwidth is executed automatically based on current line usage or based on historical data.

One or more social network management servers provide support for the social features incorporated into the online games. The social network management servers access social data from one or more social networks via Application Programming Interfaces API made available by the social network providers. An example of a social network is Facebook but it is possible to have other embodiments implemented in other social networks. Each social network includes social data and this social data or a fraction of the social data is made available via API . As in the case of the game servers the number of social network management servers that are active at a point in time changes according to the load on the infrastructure. As the demand for social data increases the number of social network management servers increases. Social network management servers cache user data in database and social data in database . The social data may include the social networks where a player is present the social relationships for the player the frequency of interaction of the player with the social network and with other players etc. Additionally the user data kept in database may include the player s name demographics e mail games played frequency of access to the game infrastructure etc.

It is noted that the embodiment illustrated in is an exemplary online gaming infrastructure. Other embodiments may utilize different types of servers databases APIs etc. and the functionality of several servers can be provided by a single server or the functionality can be spread across a plurality of distributed servers. The embodiment illustrated in should therefore not be interpreted to be exclusive or limiting but rather exemplary or illustrative.

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links .

Each server may be a stand alone server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation jackpot server web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. Each server may include hardware software embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HyperText Markup Language HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more severs via one or more links . Data storages may be used to store various types of information. The information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a notebook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network player at client to access network . A client may enable its player to communicate with other players at other clients . Further each client may be a computing device such as a desktop computer or a work station or a mobile device such as a notebook computer a network computer or a smart telephone.

In particular embodiments a client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions. A player at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in Javascript Java Microsoft Silverlight combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous Javascript and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

Web browser may be adapted for the type of client where the web browser executes. For example a web browser residing on a desktop computer may differ e.g. in functionalities from a web browser residing on a mobile device. A user of a social networking system may access the website via web browser .

As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be stand alone or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. The one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more operations of one or more methods described or illustrated herein.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement embodiments may be implemented with any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data that can be manipulated by processor . As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. One or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . Memory includes random access memory RAM .

As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a Hard Disk Drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these.

Communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems on one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure that may store a computer program or data. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a Secure Digital card a Secure Digital drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

One or more embodiments can also be fabricated as computer readable code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

