---

title: System and method for linking streams of multimedia data to reference material for display
abstract: A system for indexing displayed elements that is useful for accessing and understanding new or difficult materials, in which a user highlights unknown words or characters or other displayed elements encountered while viewing displayed materials. In a language learning application, the system displays the meaning of a word in context; and the user may include the word in a personal vocabulary to build a database of words and phrases. In a Japanese language application, one or more Japanese language books are read on an electronic display. Readings (‘yomi’) for all words are readily viewable for any selected word or phrase, as well as an English reference to the selected word or phrase. Extensive notes are provided for difficult phrases and words not normally found in a dictionary. A unique indexing scheme allows word-by-word access to any of several external multi-media references.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE045085&OS=RE045085&RS=RE045085
owner: Sentius International, LLC
number: RE045085
owner_city: McLean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120904
---
The present invention relates to indexing displayed elements. More particularly the present invention relates to a novel indexing scheme that is useful in such applications as learning a foreign language for example a language based upon an ideographic alphabet such as Japanese.

As the global economy turns the world s many nations into what media visionary Marshall McLuhan referred to as a global village the need to learn and use new or specialized information such as a language other than one s native language becomes increasingly important. For example there is a tremendous international demand for information related to Japan. Inside Japan there is an abundance of information available in the Japanese language in numerous media forms. Japan has five national newspapers seven major broadcasting networks and several hundred book and magazine publishers. Japanese television focuses on the most obscure topics and there are special interest magazines covering the full spectrum of Japanese society. Speakers of the Japanese language can find information on just about any topic imaginable. Unfortunately outside of Japan this information is in short supply and the information that is available is primarily in English.

Individuals trying to learn about Japan are faced with the dilemma of either relying on English language sources or going through the pains of learning Japanese. English language information on Japan must go through the translation process. This results in time delays in obtaining necessary information as well as in distortions in meaning. Furthermore economics itself places restrictions on what information makes it s way into English and what information does not. For general and introductory information on Japan the English based media is providing a valuable service. But for people who want to do more than scratch the surface such information is far from sufficient.

A large number of non native speakers have sought to study Japanese in universities or in professional language schools. In recent years the interest level in Japanese among first year level college students has soared such that it is rated second only to Spanish in some surveys. The number of people studying Japanese in the mid 1980 s in the United States was 50 000. This number has recently grown to 400 000 persons. But the study of Japanese language is plagued by the burdens of learning Kanji the ideographic alphabet in which Japanese is written. Thus the standing room only first year Japanese language class in many universities soon becomes the almost private lesson like third year class due to student attrition resulting from the difficulty of mastering Kanji.

The situation in Japan for foreigners is not much more encouraging. The cost of living in Japan poses a major barrier for both business people and students. There are currently over 300 000 United States citizens working or studying in Japan. But in recent years foreign companies have been cutting their foreign staff. This in part has been in response to the enormous expense associated with maintaining them in Japan but it is also a statement about the effectiveness of a large percentage of these people who typically possess no Japanese language skills or background. Nevertheless the necessity to do business in Japan is clear to most major United States companies and access to Japan s inside information is critical to the success of such companies.

The situation in Japanese universities is also discouraging. There are currently about 30 000 foreign students in Japanese universities compared to a total of over 300 000 foreign students studying in the United States. Ninety percent of the foreign students in Japan are from Asia while there are less than 1 000 students in Japan from the United States. The cost of living and housing again contribute greatly to this disparity but the language barrier must be seen as the prime hurdle that causes students to abandon the attempt to explore Japan. In the future the desirability for students and researchers to work in Japan should increase due to the growth of science cities and the increase in the hiring of foreign researchers by Japanese corporations. The burden of studying Japanese however remains.

In total there are over 60 000 people enrolled in Japanese language programs in Japan and according to the Japan Foundation there are approximately 1 000 000 Japanese language students worldwide with a total of over 8 200 Japanese language instructors in 4 000 institutes. However without a more effective and productive methodology for reading Japanese and for building Japanese language vocabulary the level and breadth of the information making its way to non natives should not be expected to improve.

The foregoing is but one example of the many difficulties one is faced with when acquiring or using difficult or unfamiliar material. The first challenge anyone reading a difficult text is faced with is the issue of character recognition and pronunciation. For example a student of the Japanese language spends many frustrating hours counting character strokes and looking up characters in a dictionary. Challenges such as this are the primary reason so many people give up on Japanese after a short trial period. It is also the reason that people who continue to pursue the language are unable to build an effective vocabulary.

Knowing the yomi or pronunciation or reading of a word is essential to memorize and assimilate the word into one s vocabulary. This allows the student to read a word in context and often times deduce its meaning. But in many cases the word may be entirely new to the reader or it may be a usage that the reader has never seen. Looking up the word in the dictionary or asking a native speaker are the only options available to a student. Once the yomi for the word is known i.e. the meaning and understanding of the word in context the final challenge is to memorize the word and make it a part of a usable vocabulary.

The sheer number of characters in ideographic alphabets such as Kanji presents unique challenges for specifying and identifying individual characters.

Various schemes have been proposed and descriptions can be found in the literature for the entry of Kanji characters into computers and the like.

See for example Y. Chu Chinese Kanji Text and Data Processing IEEE Computer January 1985 J. Becker Typing Chinese Japanese and Korean IEEE Computer January 1985 R. Matsuda Processing Information in Japanese IEEE Computer January 1985 R. Walters Design of a Bitmapped Multilingual Workstation IEEE Computer February 1990 and J. Huang The Input and Output of Chinese and Japanese Characters IEEE Computer January 1985 .

And see J. Monroe S. Roberts T. Knoche Method and Apparatus for Processing Ideographic Characters U.S. Pat. No. 4 829 583 9 May 1989 in which a specific sequence of strokes is entered into a 9 9 matrix referred to as a training square. This sequence is matched to a set of possible corresponding ideographs. Because the matrix senses stroke starting point and stroke sequences based on the correct writing of the ideograph to be identified this system cannot be used effectively until one has mastered the writing of the ideographic script. See also G. Kostopoulos Composite Character Generator U.S. Pat. No. 4 670 841 2 Jun. 1987 A. Carmon Method and Apparatus For Selecting Storing and Displaying Chinese Script Characters U.S. Pat. No. 4 937 745 26 Jun. 1990 and R. Thomas H. Stohr Symbol Definition Apparatus U.S. Pat. No. 5 187 480 16 Feb. 1993 .

A text revision system is disclosed in R. Sakai N Kitajima C. Oshima Document Revising System For Use With Document Reading and Translation System U.S. Pat. No. 5 222 160 22 Jun. 1993 in which a foreigner having little knowledge of Japanese can revise misrecognized imaged characters during translation of the document from Japanese to another language. However the system is provided for commercial translation services and not intended to educate a user in the understanding or meaning of the text.

Thus although much attention has been paid for example to the writing identification and manipulation of ideographic characters none of these approaches are concerned with providing a language learning system. The state of the art for ideographic languages such as Japanese does not provide an approach to learning the language that meets the four primary challenges discussed above i.e. reading the language for example where an ideographic alphabet is used comprehending the meaning of a particular word encountered while reading the language understanding the true meaning of the word within the context that the word is used and including the word in a personal dictionary to promote long term retention of the meaning of the word. A system that applies this approach to learning a language would be a significant advance in bridging the gap between the world s diverse cultures because of the increased understanding that would result from an improved ability to communicate with one another. Such system would only be truly useful if it were based upon an indexing scheme that allowed meaningful manipulation and display of the various elements of the language.

The invention provides a unique system for indexing displayed elements and finds ready application for example in a language learning system that enhances and improves the way non natives read foreign languages for example the way a native English speaker reads Japanese. The language learning system provides a more effective way for people to read and improve their command of the foreign language while at the same time communicating insightful and relevant cultural social and economic information about the country.

The learning model used by the language learning system is straightforward and is based upon methods that are familiar to most learners of foreign languages. The system addresses the four challenges of reading a foreign language such as Japanese i.e. reading the foreign word or character such as Kanji in the case of a language having an ideographic alphabet such as Japanese comprehending the meaning of the word understanding the word in context and including the word in a personal vocabulary.

The exemplary embodiment of the invention includes one or more foreign language books that are read on an electronic display of a personal computer. English word references are available for each word in such books. The definitions of such words are derived from well known foreign language dictionaries. With regard to the Japanese language the system saves significant amounts of time and effort by eliminating the need for the user to look up Japanese characters in a Kanji dictionary.

When one uses the system the pronunciations or readings yomi for all words are immediately viewable in a pop up window without accessing a disk based database for example by clicking a mouse on a selected word or phrase. In the same pop up window the system provides an English reference to any word that is also selected by clicking on the selected word or phrase. The system provides extensive notes for difficult phrases and words not normally found in a dictionary and includes a relational database designed for managing and studying words. This allows a user to build a personal database of words that he would like to master. Words may also be entered from other sources that are currently in paper or other electronic formats. A unique indexing scheme allows word by word access to any of several external multi media references.

The invention provides a system that is designed to enhance and improve the way one reads or learns to read a difficult text such as a foreign language especially a language based upon an ideographic alphabet such as Kanji which is used in the Japanese language. The text may be any of actual text based material or audio video or graphic based information. In the language learning application the system is modeled on the process by which the foreign language is read and addresses the problems most persons face when reading a language that is different from their own.

The exemplary embodiment of the invention is based upon two powerful functional modules that provide a comprehensive approach to reading and learning a foreign language such as Japanese. The first module is an electronic viewer that gives the user access to reference information on each word in the electronic text at a word by word level. The second module is a relational database that allows a user to create word lists with practically no limit in size. The two modules are integrated to provide the user with everything needed to read the foreign language quickly and enjoyably as well as to build their own individual vocabulary.

The link engine outputs the selected text to a word list derived from the input text file and or audio video information and also outputs the reference information consisting of linkable entities which are derived from the indexed database . The indexor viewer creates a multi media resource such as a file that was processed as described above to produce a data resource an offset index and linked entities to the data resource for access by the user.

A user interface to the system includes an electronic viewer that runs along with the system application program and provides the following functional elements index management user display a table of contents a pop up display and a personal dictionary .

The electronic viewer module is used to view and read the electronic books provided with the language learning system. The module includes the following features 

The personal dictionary is a relational database that is optimized to manage and study words. Unlike electronic dictionaries where only the word entries of the dictionary are searchable the personal dictionary of the system herein allows one to search on each of eight or more keys associated with a word.

The personal dictionary also allows the user to enter words from other sources that are currently in paper or other electronic formats. For example a user can copy all the words that they have in paper format from study lists and notes. With this feature a student can have all of his study materials in one easy to access database. Users can also import and export data in a text format supported by standard word processor and spreadsheet programs.

The exemplary personal dictionary includes a base 500 word vocabulary list designed for the beginning student. A variety of words are included related to such general topics as foods and drink family health the body commuting and transportation environment economics finance politics companies industries computers sports and the language itself.

The system includes one or more electronic books. The words in each book is fully supported with readings English references and hypernotes. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention there are typically over 10 000 words as well as over 1 000 notes presented in an easy to read easy to memorize format.

The English reference feature of the system provides basic information to help users understand the word in its context. For each word a generalized definition of the word is provided. The pop up fields are used to give the user a quick reference to the word and to allow the user to continue reading or reviewing the text.

Current electronic book formats provide simple hyperlinks in what is termed hypertext or multimedia. Hyperlinks to date have been simple pointers that directly link text with other text graphics or sound within the text file itself. For reference materials such as electronic encyclopedias and dictionaries hyperlinks provide a quick and easy way to find related material to a topic or subject. However these links must be hard coded and are therefore cumbersome to author. The format of the system herein described provides a new means of relating text pictures and or video with information to enrich and expand the impact of every element in a text picture or video. This format differs from current electronic books which only link text with other parts of text or content.

In the new format of the present system every word or sound for example can be linked to information not contained within the text using an indexing method that maps a single word or phrase to a table that contains external reference material. This reference can be in the form or of text graphics images movies and or sound. Thus the resource materials such as the text remains unaltered and therefore compact in terms of file size. Thus the resource materials for example the text takes up less disk space and runs faster.

The actual indexing process is completed in several steps including word cuts linking and compilation.

The word cutting process is accomplished using a simple visual editor for example a point and click system using a pointing device such as a mouse. The process divides the text into the individual components of text that are linked with the additional reference material. The original text is provided by a publisher in electronic form in a raw binary text format e.g. an ASCII text file or other word processor file . This text is then divided up into the component word or phrases in preparation for the next step.

The linking process takes the text after the word cut process and links it to an external reference. The database sources a grammar parser and a link engine that builds an index which in turn locates each textual and audio video reference in the source material. In the case of language learning the component words and phrases are linked to a foreign language dictionary. In other cases links may be made to other reference materials such as graphics and or sound.

After linking the text and references are compiled. During compilation the cut text is reassembled to create an image of the text that the end user sees. At this point additional formatting may be applied to the text for final display. Indices of the component words and phrases are built with links to the reference material and duplicate references are consolidated to conserve memory and storage requirements.

A key feature of the system format is the method by which the original book text is indexed and linked with the external references. During the compile process an image of the text is created. When the image is created the cuts are indexed based upon the position offset from the beginning of the text. The start and end points of the cut text are recorded in a look up table along with the links to external references. The number and type of links for any component is dynamic. This means that a single entry could have several different references attached to it each containing different forms of data.

The user interacts with the electronic book using a pointing device. When the user clicks within the text image the location of the pointer is determined. The location is converted into a position offset from the beginning of the text and used to determine which component word or phrase was selected. The process involves comparing the offset with the start and end values stored in the look up table as discussed above in connection with . When the offset value falls between a component s start and end points a match is made and the external references can be resolved.

The English reference is intended to give the user basic information to help him understand a selected word in its context. A majority of the word definitions found in the English reference are not the direct translation of the word in that particular context. They are mostly generalized definitions of the given word. These pop up fields give the user a quick reference to the word and allow him to continue reading or reviewing the text without the need to stop and access a dictionary. In applying the invention to other languages for example Korean or Chinese or to difficult materials such as highly technical or complex matters appropriate external references should be selected.

In the exemplary embodiment of the invention a priority is placed on making the text readable rather than on creating a detailed grammatical description of it. The English reference is not considered a direct translation of the foreign language but rather is preferably a contextual definition based upon the word s meaning within the text.

Definitions in dictionaries are written for practical use. Accordingly word and sentence translations are preferably written in modern English at a level acceptable to native speakers. The types of phrases and words covered by the English reference are preferably of great variety. The English translation should therefore be highly readable and useful.

Hyper notes are provided for a great number of words and phrases included in the system. Most of the explanations are grammatical in nature but others simply explain the passage in further depth or rephrase the foreign language word or phrase in simpler language. The notes have been written in the foreign language because it is believed that this is the best way for students of the language to improve their skills. As in the main text the yomi and meanings of the words are given in a pop up form.

After a study session starts a Table of Contents for the selected book appears. By clicking on any item the user is able to go to the desired section of the book. The selected chapter appears as a normal text file. The electronic viewer window has a display region with a button to display the Table of Contents. The current chapter name of the selected book is also displayed in this area. To select a word or phrase in the book the user clicks on a word that is not understood and a pop up menu immediately appears see . The pop up information contains the yomi the English reference and the notes selection. If the pop up menu does not appear the selected word is not referenced. The yomi also appears in the pop up menu.

To view the English reference information the user selects the English Reference from the pop up menu and the information appears next to the pop up menu.

To see the Note associated with the text the user selects Notes from the pop up menu and the Note appears in a separate window. If the Notes item is gray for example as shown in no Note is available for the word. Notes also include a pop up reference feature. The first word in the text with reference information has a black underbar beneath it. This is the Word Pointer which indicates the most recent location for the pop up menu and defaults to the first word. To see where a Note begins and ends the user selects Show Note Guides from the View Menu.

The electronic viewer module also provides a Palette. To display the palette the user selects Show Palette from the View Menu. The Word Display Palette displays all the reference information for quick viewing. The arrow buttons move the location of the Word Pointer and update the reference information. The See Note command displays the Note if one exists for the word and is gray if one is not present. The Add to PD command automatically copies the word and its associated information to the personal dictionary. If a Note is present it is also copied to the personal dictionary.

A limited amount of text can be copied from the book by selecting Edit Mode from the View Menu highlighting the desired text and selecting Copy from the Edit Menu. Words can be searched for in the book by selecting Find from the Words Menu.

The words contained in the personal dictionary are displayed in large fields with the word on the bottom the yomi above the word and the English reference on top as shown in . In Browse Mode clicking on a word alternately hides and shows the word. This function is used to enhance review and study of the Main Control Buttons. The Main Control Buttons are located just below the Word field. The arrow keys display the next or previous words based on the sort key indicated by the Sort Button in the bottom left corner. The Show Notes button displays the Note information about the Word. This button toggles to Hide Notes when the field is displayed and Show Notes when hidden. Additional notes and annotations can be entered directly. The Quick Search button displays the word in a pop window for quick search of a single character. After the pop up is displayed the user can click on the desired character to search. The Flash Words button displays the words in the personal dictionary in slide show fashion. Sort order or random order are selectable sort order uses the current sort order.

The Find button displays the search dialogue window. Words are searchable by the following keys Word Yomi English Reference Category Source Priority or Date. The personal dictionary supports logical AND searching for each of the above keys. The following features are supported 

Both the electronic viewer module and the personal dictionary module provide search features accessible via the Word Menu. After selecting Find from the menu the search dialogue appears.

The electronic viewer module includes a simple search feature that allows the user to search for a string of text anywhere in the book. The user enters the desired text and clicks Find to execute the Search. Find Next searches for the next occurrence of the word in the text.

In the personal dictionary a slightly more complex search feature is provided. The search dialogue allows the user to enter multiple search terms. For example a user can search for a certain term in the Economics category or the user can look for a Kanji that has a certain reading. More search terms result in increased search time. The search term for Word Yomi Reference Note and Source are indexed based on the first seven characters contained in the field. Characters appearing after the seventh character in any of these fields are not found with the Starts With selection. Selecting Contains searches the entire text in the field.

To search the user enters the desired word or character and then selects Starts With or Contains from the menu. A Starts With search is the fastest. The Category search terms are based on the category list. The integers 1 to 5 can be entered for Priority. Date searching can be performed as is is before or is after. After entering the desired search information the user clicks Find to execute the Search. Find Next searches for the next occurrence in the personal dictionary.

Text files can be read into the personal dictionary to make data exchange with other programs and colleagues feasible. The following format should be followed to allow accurate importing. One may use a spreadsheet program to build the word table and export the information as a tab delimited file. If a word processor is used the user must add an extra tab for blank fields and follow the format listed below. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention Export and Import uses the following format 

Setting up the Word field as column A in a spreadsheet and then exporting as a text file results in this format. If a word processor is used one should also save as a text file. One should not include any hard returns user entered returns within the string of text for the given word. If given the option the user should elect to have soft returns automatically entered returns deleted. To import the user selects Import Words from the File Menu and then chooses the file for import. To export the user selects Export Words from the File Menu and then enters a name for the given file.

Although the invention is described herein with reference to the preferred embodiment one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that other applications may be substituted for those set forth herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. For example the invention may be used to index images such that elements of the image are linked to an external reference. Thus an illustration of the human body may include descriptive external resources for each of the body s internal organs and would thereby aid in the study of anatomy. Likewise a video or other moving picture display for example animated displays could be indexed such that the picture could be stopped and various elements within a frame of the picture could be examined through links to external references. The invention allows such application because it does not embed information within the source material as is the case with prior art hyperlink technology. Rather the invention creates a physical counterpart to the image in which a selected image position defines an offset that locates a desired external reference. Accordingly the invention should only be limited by the claims included below.

