---

title: User authentication management
abstract: End users of a multi-factor authentication service can utilize an account management service, and third-party website can register to utilize the multi-factor authentication service. Registering a third-party website can comprise the multi-factor authentication service receiving a valid digital identity certificate for the third-party website, and receiving an agreement to terms of use of the multi-factor authentication service for the third-party website. Once received, the multi-factor authentication service can enable the third-party website to utilize the service (e.g., switch the service on, or send an authorization key to the third-party website). Further, registering a user to the multi-factor authentication service can comprise determining availability of service, and providing a location-specific access code. Additionally, registering the user can comprise registering the user's mobile device, for example, to provide multi-factor authentication. Also, an Internet-based user account management user interface can be provided that allows a user to view transactions on their account, and an ability to shut off a designated mobile device's ability to authenticate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832806&OS=08832806&RS=08832806
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08832806
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121015
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 254 119 filed on Oct. 20 2008 entitled USER AUTHENTICATION MANAGEMENT at least some of at least one of which may be incorporated herein.

In a computing environment websites often utilize user authentication for security purposes for example to access server or website content or to perform online transactions. User authentication typically requires that a user register their identification information with the website often supplying a unique user name and an associated security code for example an alpha numeric password. User authentication that utilizes a user name and associated password is typically referred to as single factor authentication. Occasionally websites may request that a user provide more than one form of authentication e.g. a security key which is often referred to as multi factor authentication e.g. two factor authentication . Further websites can utilize authentication codes in order to determine whether the user is a human or an Internet bot e.g. a computer used to spam a website . User authentication can also comprise out of band authentication whereby an authentication can take place outside of a previously established communication system e.g. downloading an electronic key stored on a flash drive after entering a username and password on a webpage .

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Often when a user of a website wishes to access certain information or perform certain transactions on the website they are asked to enter a user name and password into a user interface UI . Using a password associated with a particular username can provide for authentication of the user for example because the password is typically known only to the user who is registered with the website e.g. a shared secret . However security for remote access to websites can be compromised if passwords are used by those other than the registered user e.g. by identity thieves . Multi factor authentication can be used to add one or more layers of security to user authentication for example when a user performs an online purchase.

Current multi factor authentication techniques include utilizing telephones or mobile devices as a second authentication factor. As an example when a website user attempts to purchase an item online the host website can send a short message service SMS message e.g. a text message to the user s mobile device e.g. mobile phone . In this example after receiving the SMS message the user can reply with an authentication key provided by the website. In this way for example an identity thief would need the user s username password and designated mobile device in order to complete the authentication.

Previous and current solutions include a system that automatically calls a user designated telephone upon receiving an authentication request from a server system Authentify http www.authentify.com . However only those third party sites that have a previous business arrangement and a specific license with the authentication service may utilize this type of multi factor authentication for their users. Further the current systems do not provide broad based auto provisioning of a third party site for example typically requiring a lot of human interaction between a website developer owner that wishes to utilize an authentication service and the service entity. Additionally some current systems require that the website host and provide the multi factor authentication request.

Previous and current solutions do not typically allow end user e.g. users going through a multi factor authentication process management of the authentication process and related account information. For example in current systems an end user may not be able to readily access information concerning transactions that have occurred using their authentication information. Further end users do not typically have a ready ability to manage when and how a multi factor authentication can be used or to shut down the service to their designated mobile device for example.

Techniques and systems are provided herein for providing registration and account management of a multi factor authentication service to Internet users and third party websites. In one embodiment registering a third party website can comprise receiving a valid digital identity certificate e.g. an SSL certificate that covers the third party website wishing to use the multi factor authentication service. Further in order to register the third party website the authentication service can receive an agreement to terms of use of the multi factor authentication service for the third party website. Once these items are received in this embodiment the multi factor authentication service can enable the third party website to utilize the service e.g. switch the service on or send an authorization key to the third party website .

In this embodiment registering a user with the multi factor authentication service can comprise letting the user know via a notice of availability of service whether the service is available based on the user s locality and providing a country specific short code. Further registering the user can comprise registering the user s mobile device e.g. a mobile phone number with the service for example in order to provide multi factor authentication. Additionally an Internet based user account management user interface UI can be provided that allows a user to view transactions on their account and an ability to shut off a designated mobile device s ability to authenticate e.g. if the phone is lost .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In the example authentication in order to proceed with the user authentication a user receives the message concerning authentication on their mobile device . In this example the message may comprise a SMS based text message and can include instructions on how to complete authentication. The user can send a reply to the message which includes the text code from the distorted text image in the frame on the browser page . Having received an appropriate response to the authentication message the user can be authenticated.

In one embodiment users may wish to access a website that comprises personal information about the user e.g. a website for accessing an individual s medical records from a clinic . In this embodiment the website may ask a user to log in using a pre registered username and password which can be used to identify authentication information on the user from a database. However if a user is attempting to access the authentication service for a first time for example certain registration information may be needed in order to process user authentication. As an example a user may need to register a mobile device that can be used by the authentication service for sending authentication messages.

In one aspect a user of a third party website that utilizes a multi factor authentication service for example to perform online transactions may first need to register with the multi factor authentication service. In one embodiment registration can include providing the service with a mobile device access code such as a mobile phone number so that a second authentication for the user can utilize the mobile device. Further in this aspect the user may wish to manage details of their multi factor authentication service for example such as viewing past transactions involving their authentication. In this example account management may also involve allowing a user to revoke a mobile device s designation for authentication.

At registering the user can further comprise providing a location specific authentication service mobile access code to the user based on their locality. In one embodiment for example a mobile device designated by a user of the service may comprise a mobile phone. In this embodiment a short code can be used by the user to access the multi factor authentication service using their mobile phone for example to reply to an authentication message or to query the service for account information. Further in this embodiment short codes used by mobile phones can be specific to a geographic locality such as a country for example. In this embodiment a country specific short code can be provided to the user for accessing e.g. calling the multi factor authentication service.

At in the exemplary method registering the user can further comprise registering the user s desired mobile device e.g. mobile phone with the multi factor authentication service to be used for during multi factor authentication. As an example once a mobile phone is registered a multi factor authentication service can send a SMS message e.g. a text message to a user s designated phone after the user logs onto a third party website that utilizes the service. In this example in order to be authenticated e.g. by a second level the user can reply to the SMS message with a code displayed on the website e.g. or in another embodiment the user can enter a code into the website that was sent to their phone by SMS .

In the exemplary method at an Internet based user account revocation service can be provided which can comprise a user interface UI that allows a user to revoke a designation of a mobile device for future multi factor authentications by the multi factor authentication service. For example if a user of the multi factor authentication service were to lose the mobile device that they designated for the authentication service they may not be able to access areas of website that utilize the service. Further in this example if another person found the mobile device they may be able to authorize transactions to which the user was not a party. Therefore in one embodiment a user can log onto their account with the authentication service and deactivate the lost phone for use in the authentication for example.

In another embodiment the Internet based user account revocation service UI can provide a user with an ability to allow authentication without using the user s designated mobile device. As an example if a user were to lose their mobile device and deactivate the device using the authentication service s user account UI a user may still wish to access third party websites that utilize the multi factor authentication service. In this example the authentication service can allow a user to authenticate without having to utilize the lost mobile device. Further the authentication service may limit this type of override for example to one time before requesting that a user reactivate a security protocol. In another example a user may be located in an area in which they can not receive messages to their designated mobile device e.g. out of cell tower range or the mobile device may not be operable e.g. defective drained battery lost battery damaged device etc. . In this example the authentication service may allow a user a one time override for using the mobile device by performing additional security measures e.g. shared secret PINs shared secret questions etc. from the user s account on the authentication website.

In the exemplary method at an Internet based user account reporting service can be provided which can comprise a UI that reports user account activity transaction to the user. For example a user may wish to review online transactions that have utilized the multi factor authentication service such as secure logins online purchases or downloads. In this way in this example a user may have an ability to monitor activity associated to their account for fraud prevention or general accounting purposes. Having provided an account reporting service the example method ends at .

In another embodiment a user may be asked to enter additional private information such as a real name a physical address other contact information and billing information e.g. if a cost is associated with the authentication service . Further in this embodiment the user may supply an answer to a specific question that merely the user will know in case the password is forgotten by the user. Additionally in another embodiment where a user may share their designated mobile device with at least one other person for example the user may wish to set up a separate personal identification code PIC which may be merely known by the user. In this way in this example merely the user can authenticate using the mobile device using the PIC as a second person using the phone may not know the PIC.

In at in the exemplary embodiment the multi factor authentication service can determine whether authentication services can be offered in the user s locality e.g. country and if they are provide a country specific short code for the user to access the service remotely for example. In one embodiment the user can enter a location e.g. a country where the user wishes to utilize the authentication services. In this embodiment for example the service can determine whether their services can be offered in the country in which the user plans to use the service. In this example the multi factor authentication service may not have facilities or operational capabilities in a particular country thereby limiting availability of the service in that particular country.

In another embodiment a location of the registered user can be determined using a reverse Internet protocol IP lookup. In this embodiment for example the service may retrieve an IP address for the computer used by the user during the registration and perform a reverse IP lookup to determine a geographic location of the user e.g. in which country the user is located .

In one embodiment a short code can be used by a mobile device such as a mobile phone to contact the multi factor authentication service. The short code can be used for example to reply to an authentication message from the service or to access user account information from the service. In this embodiment a short code may be particular to respective geographic locations. For example a user located in the United States may use a first short code while a user in France may use a second short code to access the authentication service from a mobile device. In this example the multi factor authentication service can provide a short code to the user that can be used in the country in which the user intends to utilize the service.

At in the exemplary embodiment the multi factor authentication service can perform a test multi factor authentication. For example in order to determine whether the designated mobile device can be used for authentication and or to give the user some experience in utilizing the multi factor authentication the service can perform a test authentication while walking the user through the steps. One embodiment of a multi factor authentication is illustrated in as described above.

At in this embodiment the service can send a test second level authentication message to the user s mobile phone for example after the user has input their appropriate first level authentication logon information. For example as shown in the user can enter their username and password in at the service s webpage and the service can send a SMS message to the user s mobile phone which instructs the user on how to complete the authentication.

At in the exemplary embodiment while performing the test multi factor authentication can comprise having the user can reply to the test message sent by the service using their mobile phone with an appropriate response. As an example in the user is asked to reply to the SMS message sent by the service with a code that is shown on the service s webpage. In this example the user can enter the displayed code into a reply SMS message sent to the service using a short code for accessing the service from a mobile device.

In another embodiment for example an SMS message sent to a user s mobile phone may contain a code. In this example the user may be asked to enter the code from the SMS message into a box on the service s website. In this way in this example merely the user that receives the message on their mobile phone and who is utilizing the service from a computer can enter the code for a second level authentication.

In at in the exemplary embodiment after the user is registered with the multi factor authentication service the user may begin to access one or more third party websites that utilizes the multi factor authentication service. In one embodiment a user may wish to manage aspects of their multi factor authentication account. At a user may lose their mobile device that was designated by the user for use in a multi factor authentication. At for example a user can log onto their multi factor authentication account and revoke the mobile device s designation for authentication. As an example is an illustration of an exemplary embodiment of a user account management window from a multi factor authentication website. In this embodiment as an example the user may activate a button on the webpage that can automatically remove the user s mobile phone designation from their authentication account. In another embodiment activating a lost phone event in the account may enable a user to activate a different mobile device for authentication.

At in the exemplary embodiment of a user may reacquire the lost mobile device or they may acquire a new mobile device. At a user can utilize the account management service for the multi factor authentication service to reactivate the found mobile device or to activate a new mobile device for use in multi factor authentication.

After utilizing the multi factor authentication service for example via third party websites a user may wish to review transactions for which their account has been used. At in the exemplary embodiment a user can log onto a multi factor authentication service website e.g. as in to manage their account. At the user may review a transaction report for example which can include a list of transactions attributed to the user s account. In a user transactions report can comprise a list of account activity for example including transaction date action domain utilizing authentication and location from which the authentication was initiated e.g. by the user . In one embodiment the transactions can be sorted by the various elements in respective transactions e.g. date location etc. . Managing account transactions for example may facilitate fraud prevention for the user whereby fraudulent transactions can be identified.

At a user can access the account management services to change settings for the account. As an example in an account settings box can be located on the authentication service webpage for the user s account. In this example a user may select from a list of account settings that can be changed. As an example a user may wish to merely have a third party website utilize the multi factor authentication service upon initially logging on to the site and not require the multi factor authentication for a certain period of time after the initial logon. In this example a user can manage their account settings to determine a length of time between multi factor authentications. Other account setting that can be managed for example may include changing a user s profile e.g. including billing information if needed restricting authentication for specific third party sites activating a shared mobile device code as described above turning off or restricting the service and changing a mobile device designation.

At in the exemplary embodiment a user may use their mobile device to manage their service account for example without logging onto a website. In this embodiment at a user can send a query to the multi factor authorization service using for example a short code requesting information concerning a last transaction that was completed and or attempted for the user s account. In this embodiment at the service can reply with the requested information. In this way for example a user may manage their account using merely their mobile device e.g. by sending requests for information or to change settings .

At a user may request that future transactions involving the user at third party sites that utilize the multi factor authentication service apply the multi factor authentication. In this embodiment the request can be sent by the user to the service using their mobile device and the access code e.g. short code for the service. As an example a user may have set up their account to merely utilize the multi factor authentication for third party sites once per week when logging onto the sites. In this example a user can request that all future logons to the third party sites utilize the multi factor authentication.

It will be appreciated that while some examples of user account management service have been described in the embodiment and example above the techniques described herein are not limited to these embodiment and examples. Those skilled in the art may devise techniques and systems for alternate user account management services that can be utilized by the techniques and systems described herein.

In another aspect in order for third party websites to have their users utilize multi factor authentication services they can register with the multi factor authentication service. In this aspect setting up a multi factor authentication service on a third party website can be cumbersome. For example prior business relationships hardware and software installation and setup and other human intervention are typically needed to have this type of multi factor authentication for a website. However a method can be devised for registering a third party website to utilize a multi factor authentication service while mitigating human intervention between the third party website and the multi factor authentication service.

At registration of the third party website can comprise the multi factor authentication service receiving an acquiescence to terms of use of the multi factor authentication service for the third party website. For example in one embodiment after receiving a valid public key certificate that certifies an identity or the third party website the multi factor authentication service may send the terms of use of the multi factor authentication service to those responsible for the third party website. In this embodiment those responsible for the third party website can return an executed copy of the terms of use or another indication that they acquiesce to the terms. In another embodiment the terms of use may comprise language that indicates to those responsible for the third party website that initiation of the multi factor authentication service by the third party website indicates acquiescence to the terms of use.

At in an absence of additional human intervention between the third party website and the multi factor authentication service before the third party website initiates utilizing the multi factor authentication service the multi factor authentication service can enable the third party website to utilize the multi factor authentication service on the registered website. As an example after registration of the third party website to the multi factor authentication service the service can activate the service for the third party website. In one embodiment activation of the service may comprise sending an access code to the third party website that can be used to access the service. In another embodiment the service may be activated by supplying code to the third party website that a developer can install in the site to utilize the service. In another embodiment the service may be activated by having the multi factor authentication service provider install the third party website s domain in a list of registered users.

It will be appreciated that service activation may comprise alternate techniques devised by those skilled in the art. Further the techniques and systems described herein are not limited to embodiments for activation of the service as described above.

In this embodiment after receiving the certificate the multi factor authentication service can send terms of use for the service to the third party website . The third party website can then send an indication that they accept the terms of use for the service and the service can send an activation code to the third party website so that they can begin utilizing the service.

In another embodiment a third party website developer may respond to an ad for example which incorporates terms of use for the multi factor authentication service. In this example acquiescence to the terms of use may comprise a sending of the digital identification certificate to the multi factor authentication service provider.

In another embodiment registering and activating a multi factor authentication service can be associated with website development services available from a website development portal. For example a third party website developer may utilize a website development portal to facilitate development and management of their website. In this example the multi factor authentication service can be one of a plurality of a la carte services available from the development portal. As such in this example the third party website developer may register with the development portal e.g. including supplying a valid digital identification certificate and later select the multi factor authentication service for their website.

In this embodiment when a registered developer wishes to add the multi factor authentication service to their website the developer can select the service from a list of service offered by the development portal . Upon registering for the service for example an application programming interface API code can be generated which enables the third party website to access an API for utilizing the authentication service on their website. Additionally a secret key e.g. a shared secret between the third party website and the development portal can be generated which can be used to authenticate the third party website when accessing services.

It will be appreciated that those skilled in the art may devise alternate embodiments of registering and enabling a third party website to utilize an authentication service while merely having the service receive a valid digital identification certificate acquiescence to terms of use and enabling the third party to use the service. However the techniques described herein are not limited to the embodiment described above merely that the steps described are performed in the absence of additional human intervention between the third party website and the multi factor authentication service before the third party website initiates utilizing the multi factor authentication service.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

