---

title: Laser based apparatus, methods and applications
abstract: Embodied is a two-color, fiber-delivered picosecond source for coherent Raman scattering (CRS) imaging. A wavelength tunable picosecond pump is generated by nonlinear spectral compression of a prechirped femtosecond pulse from a mode-locked titanium:sapphire (Ti:S) laser. A 1064-nm picosecond Stokes pulse is generated by an all-fiber time-lens source (or suitable alternative source) that is synchronized to the Ti:S laser. The pump and Stokes beams are combined in an optical fiber coupler, which serves not only as the delivery fiber but also as the nonlinear medium for spectral compression of the femtosecond pulse. CRS imaging of mouse skin is performed to demonstrate the practicality of this source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09195042&OS=09195042&RS=09195042
owner: CORNELL UNIVERSITY
number: 09195042
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121001
---
This application is related to and derives priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 541 322 filed 30 Sep. 2011 and titled Laser Based Apparatus Method and Applications the content of which is incorporated herein fully be reference.

The research that lead to the embodiments as disclosed herein and the invention as claimed herein was funded with United States Government support under Grant Number R21RR032392 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has rights in the invention as claimed herein.

Coherent Raman scattering CRS microscopy with contrast from coherent anti Stokes Raman scattering CARS or stimulated Raman scattering SRS allows label free imaging of biological samples with endogenous image contrast based on vibrational spectroscopy. An important technical challenge in CRS microscopy is the requirement of two synchronized picosecond excitation sources. Thus desirable are CRS microscopy apparatus CRS microscopy systems and CRS microscopy methods that provide novel and efficient means to provide two synchronized picosecond excitation sources.

Generally embodiments may include fiber delivered two color picosecond sources for CARS imaging. In a particular embodiment an 817 nm pump pulse is generated by nonlinear spectral compression of a negatively prechirped pulse from a femtosecond Ti S i.e. titanium sapphire laser in a 2 2 fiber coupler. In the presence of self phase modulation and negative prechirping the spectrum of the pulse can be compressed by nonlinear propagation in an optical fiber. Such a nonlinear spectral compression process retains the optical power in the original pulse in contrast with spectral filtering. In the particular embodiment a 7.6 nm spectral bandwidth of the femtosecond Ti S output is compressed to 0.68 nm which is well suited for CRS imaging.

Prechirping of the pulse is accomplished through a rotating cylindrical lens system which offers tunable dispersion with spatial beam stability a desirable feature for coupling light into fibers. A 1064 nm Stokes pulse is generated by a synchronized all fiber time lens source and also propagates through the 2 2 fiber coupler. This particular embodiment provides for CARS imaging of mouse skin at a CHstretching frequency 2845 cm to demonstrate the practicality of the two color picosecond source.

Thus this particular embodiment describes an apparatus for coherent anti Stokes Raman spectroscopy comprising a femtosecond Ti S laser a prechirping system a fiber coupler and an all fiber time lens source synchronized with the femtosecond Ti S laser and coupled to the fiber coupler. Also described within the context of the forgoing apparatus in accordance with the particular embodiment is a method for coherent anti Stokes Raman spectroscopy imaging comprising 1 generating a wavelength tunable picosecond pump by nonlinear spectral compression of a prechirped femtosecond pulse from a mode locked titanium sapphire laser 2 generating a picosecond Stokes pulse using an all fiber time lens source that is synchronized to the titanium sapphire laser 3 combining the pump and Stokes beams in an optical fiber coupler 4 delivering the combined beams to a sample and 5 collecting the Raman signal.

A particular optical apparatus in accordance with the embodiments includes a first laser source that provides a first laser output through a first laser output port. This particular optical apparatus also includes a prechirping apparatus optically coupled to the first laser output port to provide a prechirped first laser output from the first laser output. This particular optical apparatus also includes a second light source synchronized with the first laser source and having a second light output that is optically coupled i.e. combined with the prechirped first laser output where the second light source is selected from the group consisting of 1 a second laser source different than the first laser source and 2 a time lens source.

Another particular optical apparatus in accordance with the embodiments includes a laser source that provides a laser output through a laser output port. This other particular optical apparatus also includes a prechirping apparatus optically coupled to the laser output port to provide a prechirped laser output from the laser output. This other particular optical apparatus also includes a time lens source synchronized with the laser source and having a time lens output that is optically coupled i.e. combined with the prechirped laser output.

Another particular optical apparatus in accordance with the embodiments includes a titanium sapphire femtosecond laser source that provides a laser output through a laser output port. This other particular optical apparatus also includes a prechirping apparatus optically coupled to the laser output port to provide a prechirped laser output from the laser output. This other particular optical apparatus also includes an all fiber time lens source synchronized with the titanium sapphire laser source and having a time lens output that is optically coupled i.e. combined with the prechirped laser output.

A particular imaging method in accordance with the embodiments includes providing an imaging apparatus comprising 1 a laser source that provides a laser output through a laser output port 2 a prechirping apparatus optically coupled to the laser output port to provide a prechirped laser output from the laser output 3 a time lens source synchronized with the laser source and having a time lens output that is optically coupled i.e. combined with the prechirped laser output and 4 a microscope coupled with the time lens output and the prechirped laser output i.e. as a specimen illumination source . This particular imaging method also includes energizing the laser source and the time lens source while imaging i.e. Raman imaging a specimen while using the microscope.

Another particular imaging method in accordance with the embodiments includes generating a wavelength tunable picosecond pump by nonlinear spectral compression of a prechirped femtosecond pulse from a mode locked titanium sapphire laser. This other particular imaging method also includes generating a picosecond Stokes pulse using an all fiber time lens source that is synchronized to the titanium sapphire laser. This other particular imaging method also includes combining the pump and Stokes beams in an optical fiber coupler. This other particular imaging method also includes delivering the combined beams to a sample. This other particular imaging method also includes collecting a Raman signal from the sample.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part of this specification and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments which may be practiced. These embodiments are described in detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following description of example embodiments is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. The Abstract is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

A first embodiment is directed towards a fiber delivered two color picosecond source for CARS imaging. An 817 nm pump pulse is generated by nonlinear spectral compression of a negatively prechirped pulse from a femtosecond Ti S laser in a 2 2 fiber coupler. In the presence of self phase modulation and negative prechirping the spectrum of the pulse can be compressed by nonlinear propagation in an optical fiber. Such a nonlinear spectral compression process retains the optical power in the original pulse in contrast to spectral filtering. Experimentally within the context of the first embodiment a 7.6 nm spectral bandwidth of a femtosecond Ti S output is compressed to 0.68 nm which is well suited for CRS imaging. Prechirping of the pulse is accomplished through a rotating cylindrical lens system which offers tunable dispersion with spatial beam stability a desirable feature for coupling light into fibers. A 1064 nm Stokes pulse is generated by a synchronized all fiber time lens source and also propagates through the 2 2 fiber coupler. The first embodiment describes CARS imaging of mouse skin at the CHstretching frequency 2845 cm to demonstrate the practicality of the two color picoseconds source in accordance with the embodiments.

In an experimental execution of the first embodiment as illustrated in 817 nm femtosecond pulses are generated from a mode locked Ti S laser Tsunami Spectra Physics . The prechirp of the femtosecond pulse is provided by a rotating cylindrical lens system in a 4f configuration which consists of an 1800 lines mm silver coated grating a f 30 cm spherical lens a f 10 cm concave cylindrical lens SCX 50.8 5000.0 C CVI Melles Griot and a mirror. The cylindrical lens is mounted on a rotation stage for rotation in the plane perpendicular to the direction of light propagation. In this particular experimental embodiment of the first embodiment for an incident angle of 44 onto the grating the calculated maximum anomalous dispersion is 1.4 10e5 fs. The prechirped 817 nm pulse is coupled into a 2 2 fiber coupler FC1064 50B FC Thorlabs for nonlinear spectral compression and fiber optic beam combining. The total propagation length of the 817 nm pump pulse in the fiber is 107 cm. A half wave plate and a quarter wave plate are inserted before the coupling lens to adjust the polarization of the output pump pulse after the fiber. The 1064 nm Stokes pulse is generated by an all fiber time lens source synchronized to the Ti S laser which is described in detail in Wang et al. Synchronized time lens source for coherent Raman scattering microscopy Opt. Express 18 24019 24024 2010 and which is incorporated herein fully by reference. The RF signal for synchronization is provided by a high speed photodiode that samples the 80 MHz Ti S optical pulse train. A chirped fiber Bragg grating CFBG spliced to the fiber coupler instead of a circulator as in the foregoing reference was used as an all fiber dispersion compensator for the time lens source. A polarization controller PC is used to adjust the polarization of the 1064 nm output from the fiber coupler ensuring that the Stokes pulse is linearly polarized and parallel to that of the pump to maximize CARS signal. A discrete RF delay PDL 10A Colby Instruments and a continuously tunable RF delay provide a large tuning range 0.795 ns to adjust the relative time delay between the pump and the Stokes pulses without any mechanical optical delay line. The 2 2 fiber coupler acts as a spatial beam combiner and delivery fiber for both the pump and the Stokes pulses ensuring perfect spatial overlap of the two beams for CRS imaging. After collimation and an 800 nm long pass filter LPF which removes the four wave mixing background generated in the fiber coupler the spatially and temporally overlapping pump and Stokes pulses are sent into a microscope described in detail in Balu et al Fiber delivered probe for efficient CARS imaging of tissues Opt. Express 18 2380 2388 2010 and incorporated herein fully by reference for CARS imaging. The CARS signal is excited and collected in the epi direction with a water immersion objective lens XLUMPlanFl Olympus NA 0.95 .

In accordance with the foregoing experimentally embodied apparatus one may characterize a linear dispersion of the rotating cylindrical lens system before the fiber coupler. The pulse width as a function of the rotation angle of the cylindrical lens is measured dots in and compared with theoretical calculation solid line in by assuming the maximum dispersion of 1.4 10e5 fsat 0 . Experimental and theoretical results agree well. Note that as the angle decreases dispersion increases the pulse width is compressed to its minimum at 76 due to other dispersive elements in the beam path e.g. an optical isolator before the cylindrical lens system. To maximize the power that can be spectrally compressed the cylindrical lens is fixed at maximum dispersion 0 . The measured spectra of the 817 nm pulse as a function of the output power from the fiber coupler are shown in . As power increases the spectrum is progressively compressed and reaches its minimum of 0.68 nm at 150 mW output power dotted line in . This corresponds to 11.2 times spectral compression from that of linear propagation at low power solid line in . As the output power further increases the spectrum broadens again dash dotted line in due to the maximum prechirp provided by the current system which may be further increased by using a shorter focal length cylindrical lens. The pulse width at maximum spectral compression i.e. at 150 mW output deconvolved from the measured second order interferometric autocorrelation trace is 1.8 ps.

One may then characterize the time lens output and the synchronization performance. The measured spectral bandwidth FWHM is 1.7 nm . For temporal profile characterization one may measure the cross correlation between the time lens output and the 87 fs pulse directly from the Ti S laser using sum frequency SF generation in a BBO crystal. The relative delay between the pulses is readily scanned by tuning the electronic RF delay line. shows that the pulse width of the time lens output is 2.2 ps. The cross correlation between the time lens output and the 1.8 ps spectrally compressed 817 nm pulse is shown in . The FWHM is 2.9 ps. To measure the relative timing jitter between the pump and Stokes pulses one may record an SF intensity fluctuation at half maximum of the cross correlation trace inset in . The RMS timing jitter over a measurement time of 180 seconds is 110 fs only a small fraction of the pulse widths. The measured output power of the 1064 nm Stokes pulse is 110 mW.

One may perform CARS imaging of sebaceous glands at the CHstretching frequency in ex vivo mouse ear. highlights the practicality of the two color fiber delivered picosecond source for CARS imaging. While CRS imaging of the CHbond is demonstrated the wavelength tunability of the femtosecond Ti S laser ensures that a wide range of stretching bands can be covered by the two color source.

In conclusion the particular foregoing first embodiment demonstrates a fiber delivered two color picosecond source for CARS imaging. A 2 2 fiber coupler spectrally compresses a pump pulse from a mode locked femtosecond laser and spatially combines the pump and the Stokes pulses the latter of which is generated by a synchronized all fiber time lens source. The temporal overlap of the two pulses is electronically adjusted without any mechanical optical delay line greatly facilitating the temporal alignment of the excitation beams for CRS imaging. Mouse skin imaging at CHstretching frequency 2845 cm is performed to demonstrate the practicality of this source. The combination of the all fiber time lens source and the nonlinear spectral compression of a femtosecond source in an optical fiber has the potential to make CRS imaging easily accessible to any researcher with a wavelength tunable femtosecond source.

In a second embodiment as illustrated in 80 MHz 90 fs pump pulses centered at 817 nm are generated from a mode locked Ti S laser Tsunami Spectra Physics . The prechirp of the femtosecond pulse is provided by a rotating cylindrical lens system in a 4f configuration which provides tunable anomalous dispersion up to 1.4 10e5 fs. The prechirped 817 nm pulse is coupled into a WDM for nonlinear spectral compression fiber optic beam combining and delivery. To generate a 1064 nm Stokes pulse a fast GaAs photodetector ET 4000 10 GHz EOT converts the 80 MHz pump pulse train into a synchronized RF pulse train which is amplified by broadband RF amplifiers and used to drive the MZ intensity modulator. The intensity modulator carves a synchronized 80 MHz 55 ps optical pulse train from a 1064 nm CW laser QFBGLD 1060 30PM QPhotonics . The preamp and the power amplifier boost the energy of the optical pulse for nonlinear spectral broadening in 100 m SSMF which replaces the phase modulators in the time lens setup. For dispersion compensation the spectrally broadened 1064 nm pulse is compressed with an all fiber dispersion compressor consisting of a circulator and a chirped fiber Bragg grating. The output port of the compressor is spliced to the fiber WDM. In the experimental configuration in accordance with the second embodiment the fiber WDM serves three purposes 1 combining the pump and the Stokes beams spatially 2 nonlinear spectral compression of the pump and 3 fiber delivery of both beams. An in line fiber polarization controller before the WDM adjusts the polarization of the 1064 nm output ensuring that the Stokes beam is linearly polarized and parallel to that of the pump to maximize the CARS signal. An electronic discrete RF delay PDL 10A Colby Instruments and a continuously tunable RF delay provide a large tuning range 0.795 ns to adjust the relative time delay between the pump and the Stokes pulses without any mechanical optical delay line. After collimation and an 800 nm long pass filter LPF which removes the four wave mixing background generated in the fiber coupler the spatially and temporally overlapping pump and Stokes pulses are sent into a microscope as described in detail in Kobat et al. Opt. Express 17 13354 2009 which is incorporated herein fully by reference for CARS imaging. CARS signal is excited and collected in the epi direction with a water immersion objective lens XLUMPlanFl Olympus NA 0.95 and detected by a GaAsP photomultiplier tube PMT .

One may first characterize the 817 nm pump pulse. Spectral compression of a negatively prechirped femtosecond pulse due to SPM in optical fibers is explained in detail in Wang et al. Opt. Lett. 36 4233 2011 . At maximum group delay dispersion 1.4 10e5 fs and an output power of 145 mW from the WDM the full width at half maximum FWHM bandwidth of the pump spectrum is compressed to its minimum from 7.4 nm to 0.72 nm with a spectral compression ratio of 10.3. To obtain the temporal profile of the spectrally compressed pump pulse one may measure cross correlation trace between the 90 fs 817 nm pulse and the spectrally compressed pump pulse through background free noncollinear sum frequency SF generation in a barium borate BBO crystal shown in . The measured FWHM pulse width is 2.7 ps.

One may then characterize the 1064 nm Stokes pulse and the synchronization performance. As power increases the 1064 nm spectrum continuously broadens due to SPM . At the maximum output power of 186 mW from the WDM 820 mW output from the 100 m SSMF the measured bandwidth defined by the two outmost peaks indicated by the arrows is 1.14 nm. To determine the temporal profile one may measure the cross correlation between the 1064 nm Stokes pulse and the 90 fs 817 nm pulse directly from the Ti S laser . To characterize the timing jitter cross correlation of the Stokes pulse and the 2.7 ps spectrally compressed 817 nm pump pulse is performed . All cross correlation measurements use SF generation in the BBO crystal. A bandpass filter placed before the photodiode removes the residual second harmonic of the 817 nm pulse and the 1064 nm Stokes pulse which guarantees background free SF measurement in the collinear configuration. The relative delay between the pulses is readily scanned by tuning the electronic RF delay line instead of a mechanical delay line used for . shows that the FWHM pulse width of the compressed 1064 nm pulse is 1.9 ps. The FWHM of the cross correlation between the 1064 nm pulse and the 2.7 ps spectrally compressed 817 nm pulse is 3.3 ps. To measure the relative timing jitter between the pump and Stokes pulses one may record the SF intensity fluctuation at half maximum of the cross correlation trace inset in . The RMS timing jitter over a measurement time of 160 s is 180 fs only a small fraction of the pulse widths.

With this fiber delivered two color source in accordance with the second embodiment one may perform CARS imaging of sebaceous glands at the CHstretching frequency 2845 cm in ex vivo mouse ear. highlights the practicality of the two color fiber delivered picosecond source for CARS imaging. While CRS imaging of the CHbond is demonstrated the wavelength tunability of the femtosecond Ti S laser together with proper adjustment of the grating angle and choice of fast photodetectors responsive to the pump wavelength ensures that a wide range of stretching bands can be covered by the two color source. For example tuning the pump wavelength to 909 nm one may demonstrate CRS imaging of drug delivery in mouse skin at a polyene stretching frequency 1600 cm .

Compared with the time lens source in accordance with the first embodiment Stokes pulse generation through nonlinear spectral broadening in accordance with the second embodiment is simpler and more cost effective to implement. High speed phase modulators and relevant RF filter and amplifiers are no longer needed eliminating the major cost of the time lens system. On the other hand the timing jitter described herein is larger than that of the time lens source and there is some polarization instability over a long imaging session of several hours. One may attribute these to the long SSMF 100 m that was used. A long fiber is more susceptible to environmental variations such as temperature fluctuations and mechanical vibrations.

In conclusion demonstrated herein in accordance with a second embodiment is a fiber delivered two color picosecond source for CARS imaging through nonlinear spectral transformation. The pump pulse is generated through nonlinear spectral compression of a prechirped femtosecond pulse while the Stokes pulse is generated through SPM induced spectral broadening of a 55 ps pulse and subsequent dispersive compression. Spectral compression of the femtosecond pump pulse beam combining and fiber delivery are readily accomplished in a fiber WDM. The temporal overlap of the two pulses is electronically adjusted without any mechanical optical delay line greatly facilitating the temporal alignment of the excitation beams for CRS imaging. Mouse skin imaging at CHstretching frequency is performed to demonstrate the practicality of this source. The nonlinear spectral broadening scheme of the Stokes pulse replaces phase modulation with phase modulators in the time lens source which potentially reduces the complexity and cost of the Stokes source for CRS imaging.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties to the extent allowed and as if each reference was individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and was set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims is to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening.

The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it was individually recited herein.

All methods described herein may be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not impose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed.

No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. There is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

