---

title: System and method for processing streaming media of an event captured by nearby mobile phones
abstract: Systems, processes and computer-readable media that incorporate the subject disclosure may include, for example, the establishment of wireless communications with a wireless communications device positioned for monitoring an event. A media stream including event media is received from the wireless communications device. The event media is generated by the wireless communications device obtained from the observation position. The media stream is forwarded to a media production processor. Upon selection, the media production processor uses the media stream to prepare media program coverage of the event. Other embodiments are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497424&OS=09497424&RS=09497424
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 09497424
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121205
---
The subject disclosure relates generally to the delivery of streaming media obtained from wireless sources and more particularly to the delivery of streaming video obtained from mobile phones to a video production facility.

Video coverage of an event such as a major sporting event generally requires a substantial investment in both planning and resources. Events can include critical actions that occur at various times and locations during the course of an event such that the focus of coverage switches from one location to another with minimal delay. Some examples of venues hosting events that are routinely covered by broadcasters include sporting arenas stadiums and winter venues such as ski and snowboarding jumps and race courses.

A broadcast network covering such events typically requires multiple cameras at various locations to ensure that a sufficient quality of coverage can be provided at a particular venue. Multiple cameras provide simultaneous video coverage from positions that may be fixed or mobile during the course of the event. Such overlapping coverage of an event allows broadcast producers to alternatively select video segments from among the different video feeds as may be beneficial according to a natural and sometimes unanticipated progression of the event.

In addition to provisioning multiple cameras preparation for a covered event may require a satellite broadcast terminal. This would be particularly true for live coverage of the event. The satellite broadcast terminal allows for a relay of video from one or more of the cameras to a media production facility which produces programmed coverage for broadcast viewers. Consequently additional communications infrastructure is also used to for example interconnecting the cameras to the satellite terminal and to provide power control and the like. Even with such elaborate preparations coverage of a particular turn of events may be from an inferior vantage point or missed altogether.

The subject disclosure describes among other things illustrative embodiments of systems and processes supporting the delivery of streaming media such as streaming video obtained from one or more wireless communications devices such as mobile phones of spectators at an event. The streaming media can be delivered to a media production facility such as a broadcast network production facility. The media production facility can observe samples of streaming media feeds from multiple wireless communications devices at a particular venue during a covered event. The media production facility can select video segments from among the coverage offered by streaming media feeds from the various different vantage points of the spectator subscribers for inclusion in video program coverage of the event. Other embodiments are included in the subject disclosure.

One embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a process which includes establishing by a system including a processor wireless communications with a mobile phone. An observation position is determined of the mobile phone relative to an event. The mobile phone is equipped with a video camera and generates event video of the event which is obtained from the observation position. A video stream is received by the system from the mobile phone wherein the video stream includes the event video. The observation position of the mobile phone is forwarded by the system to a media production processor. The video stream is also forwarded by the system to the media production processor which uses the video stream to prepare programmed video coverage of the event.

Another embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a device including a memory to store computer instructions and a processor coupled to the memory. The processor responsive to executing the computer instructions performs operations including establishing wireless communications with a wireless communications device. An observation position is determined of the wireless communications device relative to an event. The wireless communications device generates event media of the event monitored from the observation position. A media stream which includes event media is received from the wireless communications device. The observation position of the wireless communications device and the media stream are forwarded by the system to the media production processor which uses the media stream to prepare programmed media coverage of the event.

Yet another embodiment of the subject disclosure includes a computer readable storage medium which includes computer instructions. The computer instructions responsive to being executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations including determining an observation position of a mobile phone relative to an event. The mobile phone generates event video of the event monitored from the observation position. A video stream is received from the mobile phone wherein the video stream comprises the event video. The video stream is forwarded to a media production processor which uses the video stream to prepare video program coverage of the event.

Many spectators own wireless communications devices such as mobile phones generally . It is also common for such spectators to have access to their mobile phones during the course of the event . Such phones can include other features including sensor devices such as still cameras video cameras and audio recorders. Indeed many spectators use their devices to capture media during the course of the event . Examples include audiovisual clips or still pictures obtained for commemorating attendance at the event and sharing aspects of the event with friends and family members.

Spectators at the event can be located anywhere within an expansive region of the venue which can provide a wide choice of vantage points for viewing the events . A particular spectator s media captured during the event is representative of the spectator s vantage point. By way of illustration a camera of a first mobile phone is positioned at a first location to capture a first view of the event . Likewise second and third cameras of second and third mobile phones are positioned respectively at second and third locations providing second and third views of the event . Generally a particular one of the different views generally represents a preferable view for the event at any given moment. Consider a fast break heading towards the upper net of the basketball court . For this play the second camera of the mobile phone may provide an advantageous view of the play as it initially unfolds with a quick pass towards the net. Likewise the first camera of the first mobile phone may provide an advantageous view of the play as it concludes with a dunk. 

In at least some embodiments the venue includes one or more wireless access points or terminals generally . The wireless access terminals can be positioned to provide suitable wireless communications coverage to spectators within the venue . Such coverage can allow for telephone conversations text messaging paging access to mobile applications such as web browsing and the like throughout the venue . In the illustrative example and without limitation four such wireless access terminals are located within respective quadrants of the venue .

It is conceivable that acceptable wireless communications may be provided by one or more of the wireless access terminals to a particular spectator subscriber. It is also generally understood that wireless signals are typically strongest along a shortest path length notwithstanding other radio interference multiplath effects and the like. Thus it may be preferable in at least some circumstances for a spectator to communicate with a nearest wireless access terminal . In the illustrative example the first wireless communications device including the camera of the first mobile phone is connected with the second wireless access terminal as it represents the shortest path being within the same quadrant. The second wireless communications device including the second camera of the second mobile phone is also connected to the second wireless access terminal as it too is within the same quadrant. The third wireless communications device including the third camera of the third mobile phone is connected to the fourth wireless access terminal as they are located with the fourth quadrant.

The wireless access terminals can be connected to a broadband access terminal such as an optical network terminal providing broadband access to a service provider network comprising an optical fiber backbone network. Connectivity within the venue can be provided by wireless communications techniques or wired techniques for example according to cables supporting an exchange of messages by way of a networking protocol such as an Ethernet protocol. The broadband access terminal can be communicatively coupled to a media distribution server for example through a dedicated service provider network . Alternatively or in addition communications connectivity can be provided with one or more other networks such as a public switched telephone network a satellite network a terrestrial radio network such as cellular radio network and other wide area networks such as the Internet.

The media distribution server can be remotely located from the venue for example at facilities under network service provider facilities . The media distribution server can be communicatively coupled to a media production server for example located at content provider facilities . In at least some implementations the media distribution server and the media production server are remote with respect to each other and with respect to the venue . The media production server can be communicatively coupled to the media distribution server for example through the dedicated service provider network or through a separate network as shown. The network can include one or more of a public switched telephone network a satellite network a terrestrial radio network such as cellular radio network and other wide area networks such as the Internet.

One or more of streaming video still photos and streaming audio captured by one or more of the cameras of spectators mobile phones can be routed through the wireless access terminals to the venue s broadband access terminal and ultimately to the media distribution server through the service provider s network . The service provider facilities in turn can forward at least some of the streaming video still photos and audio to the content provider facilities for example through the network for further processing by the media production server . For example a producer at the content provider facilities can choose from one or more sample streaming media channels provided by the media distribution server . Each channel of the streaming media channels can represent streaming media obtained from a respective one of the cameras of the mobile phones at the event .

In some embodiments an approximation of a location or vantage point of a camera of the mobile phone can be inferred from the particular wireless access terminal through which the mobile phone including the camera is communicating. The position of the mobile phone including the camera associated with a respective one of the multimedia channels can also be obtained or otherwise determined by the media distribution server and forwarded to the media production server to facilitate organization and selection of particular streaming media channels during the production of programmed media of the event .

A greater or fewer number of wireless access terminals can be provided at any particular event based on various factors such as the configuration of the venue the nature of the event the number of anticipated wireless communications subscribers etc. As it is also possible for a particular mobile phone including a camera in one region to communicate through a wireless access terminal in another region it is therefore advantages to provide other techniques for determining or otherwise approximating a location of a spectator at any given moment. In one scenario a spectator for example through a mobile application manually enters their position. An indication of a position might be provided by identification of a reserved seat of the particular spectator e.g. section row seat number . As this position would remain fixed during the course of the event it may not be suitable for a spectator that chooses to monitor the event from a different vantage point. A position can also be obtained by manual entry of a section number or other suitable venue reference within which the spectator is positioned during the course of the event allowing for spectators to roam through a venue during the course of the event while periodically updating their position.

Automated techniques for detecting a position of a spectator can include an automated response by the wireless communications device of its location for example as determined by a global positioning service GPS receiver. Location can also be determined at least in part by signal processing of the wireless signals between a particular mobile phone and one or more of the wireless access terminals . Such techniques can include estimating a range to the device according to signal delay and triangulating a position of the device by respective ranges from each of more than one wireless access terminal . Still other techniques can include registering the mobile phone by use of a radio frequency identification tag and tag reader each associated with a respective one of the mobile phone and a location within the venue . Still other techniques can include near field registration techniques and estimation from the video itself. Such estimations can be accomplished manually or automatically through image recognition techniques at one or more of the service provider facilities and the content provider facilities .

The media production server at the content provider facilities can also receive multimedia from one or more other sources such as video feeds from cameras provisioned by the content provider at the event and multimedia from other sources including archived video as can be obtained from a video archive source . The media production server can provide one or more display consoles allowing video production operations to monitor multiple streaming media feeds from various sources during the course of the event . The video production operators can choose from among the various choices which streaming media segment will be incorporated into a production version of the program. Example consoles include video production consoles including one or more video monitors or displays showing for example independent or combined displays of one or more content provider provisioned cameras. One or more media management console displays can include streaming media obtained from one or more cameras of one or more spectator mobile phones providing coverage of the same event . It is conceivable that video from provisioned cameras can be combined with video from the cameras of the mobile phones on a single console.

Thus coverage of an event can include video segments obtained from one or more of the provisioned cameras cameras of spectator mobile phones archived video and the like joined or otherwise combined into a coherent video production of the event . The production program can be forwarded by the media production server to broadcast facilities for dissemination and broadcast to one or more video consumer markets.

It is conceivable that a large number of spectators may choose to simultaneously participate by providing streaming media from cameras of their mobile phones during the same event . A major sporting event can include tens of thousands of spectators many of which own mobile phones that include cameras and video cameras. Participation can be encouraged or otherwise rewarded for streaming media contributions by any of various reward programs. One such program might offer spectator subscribers free minutes or other discounts related to their mobile service contract e.g. a free video on demand rental or purchase . Other rewards can include coupons or discounts for example at the venue for food drink souvenirs and the price of tickets to future events or other participating retail outlets.

The distribution or accrual of such rewards can be determined by any combination of tracked minutes of streaming media offered by the spectator tracked minutes of streaming media forwarded by the media distribution server to the media production server and tracked minutes of forwarded streaming media actually included into a video production of the event . The media distribution server may perform some level of filtering thereby forwarding a subset of received multimedia streams to the media production server .

For example the media distribution server can select for forwarding a representative sample of received multimedia streams from each of a number of venue regions . A forwarded number of multimedia streams for forwarding can be set at a fixed or maximum number such as four six ten one hundred and so on. For a maximum number of forwarded multimedia streams set at filtering can select two left mid court two right mid court and two at each of the four corners near each basket of a basketball court . If more than two multimedia streams are received from any of the venue regions the media distribution server can apply filtering so that some of the received multimedia streams are not forwarded.

Alternatively or in addition the media distribution server can filter based on position within any of the venue regions . For example if there are multiple media streams received from a particular region of the venue the multimedia distribution server can select some of the media streams based on a position within each region of the venue. Filtering can be applied for example to select one or more multimedia streams from a relatively close vantage point as in near the floor and or from a higher vantage point further away from the court .

Other filtering decisions can be based on other aspects such as a quality of the video e.g. resolution or quality of communications e.g. a channel quality indicator of the wireless communications link between the wireless access terminal and the mobile phone. Still further decisions can be based on prior usage for example selectively forwarding or not forwarding media streams received from mobile phones used previously according to a measure such as success quality etc.

Other rewards might include attribution of video segments to the contributing spectator by way of publicizing their name pseudo name or other indicator such as an identification used by the spectator in the context of social media. Such contributing spectator identifiers can be included during any contributing segment included in the video production for example by on screen text as in a textual overlay captioning or a watermark. Alternatively or in addition such contributing spectator identifiers can be included in a credits portion of the program typically broadcast at the conclusion of the program. Contributions can also be tracked and otherwise publicized by one or more of the media service provider and the content provider facilities by reserved web pages dedicated to identifying contributing individuals and information relating to their contributions such as the total contributed time the maximum contributed time for a single event etc.

It is beneficial that streaming media forwarded by the media production server be presented to the video program producers in an organized manner. It is conceivable that a large number of spectators may wish to contribute streaming media content during the event . Accordingly organization of a presentation of the streaming media content will facilitate adoption and popularity of the program by the media producers. In particular producers can benefit from a presentation of streaming media that is organized according to one or more features or attributes. Such features and attributes can include a vantage point or location of the video stream a quality of the video stream reliability of the video stream and the like. For example streaming media received from vantage points at a favorable location such as close to a basketball court can be presented or otherwise ranked in a more prominent manner such as at a top of a list of streaming media samples . Other features or attributes suitable for ranking include video quality communications quality and prior experience with the same user of the mobile phone . Higher rankings can be displayed for example in a preferred region of a display such as at a top portion of the display.

As shown in the illustrative example the streaming media samples can be organized or otherwise grouped according to vantage point. In the illustrative example the venue was equipped with four wireless access terminals covering four respective regions within the venue and providing different vantage points. The corresponding streaming media management console display includes four display regions generally corresponding to regions of the venue . The display regions can be columns as shown rows or any other suitable arrangement e.g. tabbed pages that can be easily distinguished by a video producer.

In at least some embodiments one or more other features are used in the organization and presentation of streaming media samples . For example the streaming media results can be ordered within each of the different display regions according to a ranking . The ranking can be determined from one or more features such as quality of the streaming media communications channel quality reliability and historical information related to the contributing spectator. As to the last feature a contributing spectator whose content has been used on previous occasions with acceptable result can be granted a higher rank than a new contributor or a prior contributor providing substandard or otherwise inferior service. Such rankings can be generated at the media distribution server the media production server a separate ranking server at the service provider facilities a separate ranking server at the content provider facilities and combinations of any such servers. Weighting values can be associated with each of the different features or dimensions contributing to an overall ranking.

Display of streaming media samples can be ordered such that higher ranking results are displayed in a more prominent manner. For example higher ranking results can be provided towards a top portion of a column of streaming media samples . In at least some embodiments a scroll bar or similar feature can be provided to allow a video producer to scroll or swipe through an extended list of streaming media samples . It is conceivable that there will be at times more streaming media samples than can be reasonable displayed on the streaming media management console display .

One or more of the streaming media samples can optionally include supplemental information such as a tag illustrated in relation to the streaming media sample . The tag can include textual information such as an identification of the contributing spectator a rank of the streaming media camera or phone features or capabilities a current zoom value a location of the phone other factors contributing to one or more of quality or rank. Alternatively or in addition the tag can include graphical elements such as a color or shape indicative of one or more of the aforementioned features. An example of a graphical feature can include a colored bar or boarder associated with a rank or quality e.g. green being indicative of a favorable streaming media sample versus yellow or red that might be indicative of inferior streaming media samples .

In some embodiments the tags are displayed in association with their respective streaming media samples . Alternatively or in addition such tags can be hidden or otherwise minimized in extent by default. A selection of the streaming media sample for example by the pointer icon can cause the tag to appear or to expand to provide additional information. In at least some embodiments one or more of such presentation features can be re configured or otherwise adjusted by way of preferences controllable by the video producer.

In some embodiments the media management console display includes a map of the venue . The map can include a simplified graphical representation identifying one or more of predefined venue regions as well as relative locations of contributing spectators. In the illustrative example the venue includes four predefined venue regions . The map can include a location icon such as a dot or other suitable indicator in relation to the map to provide an indication as to a position of a camera of a mobile phone within the venue . In at least some embodiments the number of displayed location icons can be controlled by selection of streaming media samples by the pointer icon . Otherwise the map might become unusable should too many contributors be located within any of the venue regions . In the illustrative example the pointer icon can be used to select a first streaming video sample corresponding to the first video camera of the first mobile phone a second streaming video sample corresponding to the second video camera of the second mobile phone and a third streaming video sample corresponding to the third video camera of the third mobile phone . Selection of the streaming video sample can cause the location icon to be displayed on the venue map according to a position associated with the selected camera of the mobile phone . Thus the first and second cameras of the first and second mobile phones are illustrated in the second venue region or quadrant whereas the third camera of the third mobile phone is depicted within the fourth venue region or quadrant .

In at least some embodiments one or more of the location icons can include a distinguishable feature such as a color graphical or textual element e.g. the tag to allow for association of the location icon with a particular one of the streaming media samples . Alternatively or in addition should one of the streaming media samples be selected for incorporation into the produced video program the location icon can include another indication to inform a user as to which camera is providing the broadcast content. In the illustrative example a location icon of the second camera of the second mobile phone is depicted as a star whereas the location icons of the other cameras are depicted as circles to indicate that video from the second camera of the second mobile phone is being incorporated contemporaneously into the produced video program. When video from the second camera of the second mobile phone is no longer being incorporated into the produced video program the contributing position icon can revert to a non contributing location icon .

Such participation can be identified for example by way of a mobile application resident on the spectator s mobile phone . Thus the spectator might choose to launch the application while attending the event . The application can work cooperatively with communications equipment such as the wireless access terminals to identify the availability of such wireless access terminals at the venue . Once identified one or more of the application and the service provider facilities alone or in combination can establish communications through one of the wireless access terminals such as a closest wireless access terminal or a wireless access terminal with excess communications channel capacity or bandwidth which might not necessarily be the closest wireless access terminal to the spectator. In at least some embodiments one or more of the wireless access terminal or other elements of communications connectivity provided by the service provider facilities recognizes the streaming media application and provides a suitable grade of service to reduce the possibility of interference. Such service can include a priority granted to streaming media applications over other applications. Thus transport of streaming media such as a video stream can be prioritized with respect to other network traffic such as telephone communications messaging and the like.

An observation position of wireless communications device associated with the camera of the mobile phone at an event is determined at . The position can be determined according to any of the techniques disclosed herein. Examples include spectator provided location a mobile phone provided location by way of GPS coordinates and other automated features using triangulation by way of signals received from the spectator s mobile phone by one or more of the wireless access terminals at the venue .

A media stream including event media is received from the wireless communications device at . For example a spectator by way of a video camera audio sensor still image camera or some combination of such sensors provides a streaming media signal from the wireless communications device e.g. mobile phone to the media distribution server of the media service provider facilities . The media distribution server receives the media stream e.g. a video stream by way of the established communications connectivity between the media distribution server and the wireless device.

A position of the wireless communications device is forwarded or otherwise provided to a media production processor at . The position can be forwarded for example by way of the media distribution server . It is also understood that one or more of the media distribution server and the media production server can independently determine or otherwise estimate a position of a wireless communications device such as a mobile phone associated with a particular channel of streaming media. For example a location or vantage point can be determined manually or automatically e.g. through image recognition by one or more features of event media provided within the streaming media channel.

Ultimately the event media itself can be forwarded from at least one of the wireless communications device and the media distribution server at . Although the illustrative example presumes a relay of streaming media through a media distribution server as might be operated under the control of a service provider facilities it is understood that such features can be combined or otherwise collocated with the media production server operated under the control of the content provider facilities . Thus communications can be routed directly from the venue to the content provider facilities without being relayed through equipment of the service provider facilities .

In some embodiments the process optionally includes forward sample of event media from a smart phone shown in phantom and determining whether the forwarded sample of event media was selected at also shown in phantom . To the extent that the forwarded sample of event media is selected at the event media is forwarded from the selected wireless communications device at . To the extent that the forwarded sample of event media however is not selected at the process continues with subsequent forwarding of samples of event media from the smart phones at .

The IPTV media system can include a super head end office SHO with at least one super headend office server SHS which receives media content from satellite and or terrestrial communication systems. In the present context media content can represent for example audio content moving image content such as 2D or 3D videos video games virtual reality content still image content and combinations thereof. The SHS server can forward packets associated with the media content to one or more video head end servers VHS via a network of video head end offices VHO according to a multicast communication protocol.

The VHS can distribute multimedia broadcast content via an access network to commercial and or residential buildings housing a gateway such as a residential or commercial gateway . The access network can represent a group of digital subscriber line access multiplexers DSLAMs located in a central office or a service area interface that provide broadband services over fiber optical links or copper twisted pairs to buildings . The gateway can use communication technology to distribute broadcast signals to media processors such as Set Top Boxes STBs which in turn present broadcast channels to media devices such as computers or television sets managed in some instances by a media controller such as an infrared or RF remote controller .

The gateway the media processors and media devices can utilize tethered communication technologies such as coaxial powerline or phone line wiring or can operate over a wireless access protocol such as Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth Zigbee or other present or next generation local or personal area wireless network technologies. By way of these interfaces unicast communications can also be invoked between the media processors and subsystems of the IPTV media system for services such as video on demand VoD browsing an electronic programming guide EPG or other infrastructure services.

A satellite broadcast television system can be used in the media system of . The satellite broadcast television system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment signals transmitted by a satellite that include media content can be received by a satellite dish receiver coupled to the building . Modulated signals received by the satellite dish receiver can be transferred to the media processors for demodulating decoding encoding and or distributing broadcast channels to the media devices . The media processors can be equipped with a broadband port to an Internet Service Provider ISP network to enable interactive services such as VoD and EPG as described above.

In yet another embodiment an analog or digital cable broadcast distribution system such as cable TV system can be overlaid operably coupled with or replace the IPTV system and or the satellite TV system as another representative embodiment of communication system . In this embodiment the cable TV system can also provide Internet telephony and interactive media services.

The subject disclosure can apply to other present or next generation over the air and or landline media content services system.

Some of the network elements of the IPTV media system can be coupled to one or more computing devices such as the media production processor a portion of which can operate as a web server for providing web portal services over the ISP network to wireline media devices or wireless communication devices .

Communication system can also provide for all or a portion of the computing devices such as the media production processor to function as one or more of a media distribution server and a media production server herein referred to as streaming media application server . The streaming media application server can use computing and communication technology to perform function which can include among other things establishment of communications connectivity with the wireless communications device processing of streaming media for example to establish a ranking or coordinate settings of a video compression algorithm. The media production server at the super headend office and wireless communication devices can be provisioned with software functions and respectively to utilize the services of the streaming media application server .

Multiple forms of media services can be offered to media devices over landline technologies such as those described above. Additionally media services can be offered to media devices by way of a wireless access base station operating according to common wireless access protocols such as Global System for Mobile or GSM Code Division Multiple Access or CDMA Time Division Multiple Access or TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications or UMTS World interoperability for Microwave or WiMAX Software Defined Radio or SDR Long Term Evolution or LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wide area wireless access network technologies can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

Communication system can comprise a Home Subscriber Server HSS a tElephone NUmber Mapping ENUM server and other network elements of an IMS network . The IMS network can establish communications between IMS compliant communication devices CDs Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN CDs and combinations thereof by way of a Media Gateway Control Function MGCF coupled to a PSTN network . The MGCF need not be used when a communication session involves IMS CD to IMS CD communications. A communication session involving at least one PSTN CD may utilize the MGCF .

IMS CDs can register with the IMS network by contacting a Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF which communicates with an interrogating CSCF I CSCF which in turn communicates with a Serving CSCF S CSCF to register the CDs with the HSS . To initiate a communication session between CDs an originating IMS CD can submit a Session Initiation Protocol SIP INVITE message to an originating P CSCF which communicates with a corresponding originating S CSCF . The originating S CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to one or more application servers ASs that can provide a variety of services to IMS subscribers.

For example the application servers can be used to perform originating call feature treatment functions on the calling party number received by the originating S CSCF in the SIP INVITE message. Originating treatment functions can include determining whether the calling party number has international calling services call ID blocking calling name blocking 7 digit dialing and or is requesting special telephony features e.g. 72 forward calls 73 cancel call forwarding 67 for caller ID blocking and so on . Based on initial filter criteria iFCs in a subscriber profile associated with a CD one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call originating feature services.

Additionally the originating S CSCF can submit queries to the ENUM system to translate an E.164 telephone number in the SIP INVITE message to a SIP Uniform Resource Identifier URI if the terminating communication device is IMS compliant. The SIP URI can be used by an Interrogating CSCF I CSCF to submit a query to the HSS to identify a terminating S CSCF associated with a terminating IMS CD such as reference . Once identified the I CSCF can submit the SIP INVITE message to the terminating S CSCF . The terminating S CSCF can then identify a terminating P CSCF associated with the terminating CD . The P CSCF may then signal the CD to establish Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP communication services thereby enabling the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications. Based on the iFCs in the subscriber profile one or more application servers may be invoked to provide various call terminating feature services such as call forwarding do not disturb music tones simultaneous ringing sequential ringing etc.

In some instances the aforementioned communication process is symmetrical. Accordingly the terms originating and terminating in may be interchangeable. It is further noted that communication system can be adapted to support video conferencing. In addition communication system can be adapted to provide the IMS CDs with the multimedia and Internet services of communication system of .

If the terminating communication device is instead a PSTN CD such as CD or CD in instances where the cellular phone only supports circuit switched voice communications the ENUM system can respond with an unsuccessful address resolution which can cause the originating S CSCF to forward the call to the MGCF via a Breakout Gateway Control Function BGCF . The MGCF can then initiate the call to the terminating PSTN CD over the PSTN network to enable the calling and called parties to engage in voice and or data communications.

It is further appreciated that the CDs of can operate as wireline or wireless devices. For example the CDs of can be communicatively coupled to a cellular base station a femtocell a WiFi router a Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT base unit or another suitable wireless access unit to establish communications with the IMS network of . The cellular access base station can operate according to common wireless access protocols such as GSM CDMA TDMA UMTS WiMax SDR LTE and so on. Other present and next generation wireless network technologies can be used by one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. Accordingly multiple wireline and wireless communication technologies can be used by the CDs of .

Cellular phones supporting LTE can support packet switched voice and packet switched data communications and thus may operate as IMS compliant mobile devices. In this embodiment the cellular base station may communicate directly with the IMS network as shown by the arrow connecting the cellular base station and the P CSCF .

It is further understood that alternative forms of a CSCF can operate in a device system component or other form of centralized or distributed hardware and or software. Indeed a respective CSCF may be embodied as a respective CSCF system having one or more computers or servers either centralized or distributed where each computer or server may be configured to perform or provide in whole or in part any method step or functionality described herein in accordance with a respective CSCF. Likewise other functions servers and computers described herein including but not limited to the HSS the ENUM server the BGCF and the MGCF can be embodied in a respective system having one or more computers or servers either centralized or distributed where each computer or server may be configured to perform or provide in whole or in part any method step or functionality described herein in accordance with a respective function server or computer.

The streaming media application server of can be operably coupled to the second communication system for purposes similar to those described above. The streaming media application server can perform function and in at least some instances the video production functions and thereby provide streaming media services to the CDs and of . CDs and which can be adapted with software to perform function to utilize the services of the streaming media application server . The streaming media application server can be an integral part of the application server s performing function which can be substantially similar to function and adapted to the operations of the IMS network .

For illustration purposes only the terms S CSCF P CSCF I CSCF and so on can be server devices but may be referred to in the subject disclosure without the word server. It is also understood that any form of a CSCF server can operate in a device system component or other form of centralized or distributed hardware and software. It is further noted that these terms and other terms such as DIAMETER commands are terms can include features methodologies and or fields that may be described in whole or in part by standards bodies such as Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . It is further noted that some or all embodiments of the subject disclosure may in whole or in part modify supplement or otherwise supersede final or proposed standards published and promulgated by 3GPP.

The web portal can further be utilized to manage and provision software applications and to adapt these applications as may be desired by subscribers and service providers of communication .

To enable these features communication device can comprise a wireline and or wireless transceiver herein transceiver a user interface UI a power supply a location receiver a motion sensor an orientation sensor and a controller for managing operations thereof. The transceiver can support short range or long range wireless access technologies such as Bluetooth ZigBee WiFi DECT or cellular communication technologies just to mention a few. Cellular technologies can include for example CDMA 1X UMTS HSDPA GSM GPRS TDMA EDGE EV DO WiMAX SDR LTE as well as other next generation wireless communication technologies as they arise. The transceiver can also be adapted to support circuit switched wireline access technologies such as PSTN packet switched wireline access technologies such as TCP IP VoIP etc. and combinations thereof.

The UI can include a depressible or touch sensitive keypad with a navigation mechanism such as a roller ball a joystick a mouse or a navigation disk for manipulating operations of the communication device . The keypad can be an integral part of a housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device operably coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a USB cable or a wireless interface supporting for example Bluetooth. The keypad can represent a numeric keypad commonly used by phones and or a QWERTY keypad with alphanumeric keys. The UI can further include a display such as monochrome or color LCD Liquid Crystal Display OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode or other suitable display technology for conveying images to an end user of the communication device . In an embodiment where the display is touch sensitive a portion or all of the keypad can be presented by way of the display with navigation features.

The display can use touch screen technology to also serve as a user interface for detecting user input. As a touch screen display the communication device can be adapted to present a user interface with graphical user interface GUI elements that can be selected by a user with a touch of a finger. The touch screen display can be equipped with capacitive resistive or other forms of sensing technology to detect how much surface area of a user s finger has been placed on a portion of the touch screen display. This sensing information can be used to control the manipulation of the GUI elements or other functions of the user interface. The display can be an integral part of the housing assembly of the communication device or an independent device communicatively coupled thereto by a tethered wireline interface such as a cable or a wireless interface.

The UI can also include an audio system that utilizes audio technology for conveying low volume audio such as audio heard in proximity of a human ear and high volume audio such as speakerphone for hands free operation . The audio system can further include a microphone for receiving audible signals of an end user. The audio system can also be used for voice recognition applications. The UI can further include an image sensor such as a charged coupled device CCD camera for capturing still or moving images.

The power supply can utilize common power management technologies such as replaceable and rechargeable batteries supply regulation technologies and or charging system technologies for supplying energy to the components of the communication device to facilitate long range or short range portable applications. Alternatively or in combination the charging system can utilize external power sources such as DC power supplied over a physical interface such as a USB port or other suitable tethering technologies.

The location receiver can utilize location technology such as a global positioning system GPS receiver capable of assisted GPS for identifying a location of the communication device based on signals generated by a constellation of GPS satellites which can be used for facilitating location services such as navigation. The motion sensor can utilize motion sensing technology such as an accelerometer a gyroscope or other suitable motion sensing technology to detect motion of the communication device in three dimensional space. The orientation sensor can utilize orientation sensing technology such as a magnetometer to detect the orientation of the communication device north south west and east as well as combined orientations in degrees minutes or other suitable orientation metrics .

The communication device can use the transceiver to also determine a proximity to a cellular WiFi Bluetooth or other wireless access terminals by sensing techniques such as utilizing a received signal strength indicator RSSI and or signal time of arrival TOA or time of flight TOF measurements. The controller can utilize computing technologies such as a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP programmable gate arrays application specific integrated circuits and or a video processor with associated storage memory such as Flash ROM RAM SRAM DRAM or other storage technologies for executing computer instructions controlling and processing data supplied by the aforementioned components of the communication device .

Other components not shown in can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure. For instance the communication device can include a reset button not shown . The reset button can be used to reset the controller of the communication device . In yet another embodiment the communication device can also include a factory default setting button positioned for example below a small hole in a housing assembly of the communication device to force the communication device to re establish factory settings. In this embodiment a user can use a protruding object such as a pen or paper clip tip to reach into the hole and depress the default setting button. The communication device can also include a slot for adding or removing an identity module such as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card. SIM cards can be used for identifying subscriber services executing programs storing subscriber data and so forth.

The communication device as described herein can operate with more or less of the circuit components shown in . These variant embodiments can be used in one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure.

The communication device can be adapted to perform the functions of the media processor the media devices or the portable communication devices of as well as the IMS CDs and PSTN CDs of . It will be appreciated that the communication device can also represent other devices that can operate in communication systems of such as a gaming console and a media player.

The communication device shown in or portions thereof can serve as a representation of one or more of the devices of event monitoring system the communication system and the communication system . In addition the controller can be adapted in various embodiments to perform the functions and respectively. For example the communication device can facilitate or otherwise cooperate with one or more of the wireless access terminals and the network service provider facilities for forwarding streaming media to the media distribution server . The communication device performing the functions and can further measure or otherwise determine in cooperation with one or more of the wireless access terminals and equipment of the wireless network service provider facilities an estimate of communications quality for example by way of a channel quality indicator a bit error rate or other measure of communications channel quality.

The communication device performing the functions and can further launch an mobile application program on the communication device allowing a spectator subscriber to coordinate any of various features such as those disclosed herein in relation to the provision of streaming media including reporting of a position of the communications device and the actual streaming of media from one or more sensors of the communications device .

It is also understood that in at least some embodiments the sensor e.g. video camera still camera microphone can be provided from a separate device not shown that is in communication with the communications device for example by way of a personal area network or a physical connection such as a cable. The functions and can in at least some embodiments include features application programming interfaces and the like to allow for communication with a separate sensor device and in some instances allowing for control of the device e.g. able to control record pause features of a video camera sensor.

Upon reviewing the aforementioned embodiments it would be evident to an artisan with ordinary skill in the art that said embodiments can be modified reduced or enhanced without departing from the scope of the claims described below. For example the sensor e.g. video camera can be provided as a separate device in communication with a mobile application for streaming media on a mobile phone to allow for streaming of media according to the techniques disclosed herein for event media obtained by a sensor device not equipped with a streaming media application. Other embodiments can be used in the subject disclosure.

It should be understood that devices described in the exemplary embodiments can be in communication with each other via various wireless and or wired methodologies. The methodologies can be links that are described as coupled connected and so forth which can include unidirectional and or bidirectional communication over wireless paths and or wired paths that utilize one or more of various protocols or methodologies where the coupling and or connection can be direct e.g. no intervening processing device and or indirect e.g. an intermediary processing device such as a router .

The machine may comprise a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a smart phone a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. It will be understood that a communication device of the subject disclosure includes broadly any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methods discussed herein.

The computer system may include a processor or controller e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a flat panel or a solid state display. The computer system may include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device . In distributed environments the embodiments described in the subject disclosure can be adapted to utilize multiple display units controlled by two or more computer systems . In this configuration presentations described by the subject disclosure may in part be shown in a first of the display units while the remaining portion is presented in a second of the display units .

The disk drive unit may include a tangible computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methods or functions described herein including those methods illustrated above. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute tangible computer readable storage media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices that can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Application specific integrated circuits and programmable logic array can use downloadable instructions for executing state machines and or circuit configurations to implement embodiments of the subject disclosure. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the subject disclosure the operations or methods described herein are intended for operation as software programs or instructions running on or executed by a computer processor or other computing device and which may include other forms of instructions manifested as a state machine implemented with logic components in an application specific integrated circuit or field programmable array. Furthermore software implementations e.g. software programs instructions etc. can include but not limited to distributed processing or component object distributed processing parallel processing or virtual machine processing can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein. It is further noted that a computing device such as a processor a controller a state machine or other suitable device for executing instructions to perform operations or methods may perform such operations directly or indirectly by way of one or more intermediate devices directed by the computing device.

While the tangible computer readable storage medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term tangible computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing or encoding a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methods of the subject disclosure.

The term tangible computer readable storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape or other tangible media which can be used to store information. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a tangible computer readable storage medium as listed herein and including art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are from time to time superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Wireless standards for device detection e.g. RFID short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Zigbee and long range communications e.g. WiMAX GSM CDMA LTE can be used by computer system .

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. Figures are also merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein can be used in the subject disclosure.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

