---

title: Social game play using social network features
abstract: An apparatus and method for integrating social game play with social network features is disclosed herein. Content generated in the game is posted to the social network to initiate social game play. Recipients of the content that respond to the content are automatically taken to the game to join the game in a controlled manner. Recipients' interaction with the game may be selectively reviewed and incorporated into a playing space associated with an existing player of the game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604130&OS=09604130&RS=09604130
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09604130
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120517
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 578 746 filed Dec. 21 2011 entitled Social game play using social network features the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to social networks and games in general and in particular embodiments to combining social networks with computer implemented online games.

Many games provide a virtual world or some other imagined playing space where a player of the game controls one or more player characters engages in in game actions and or acquires in game assets. Player characters also referred to as characters or PCs can be considered in game representations of the controlling player. A game engine accepts inputs from the player determines player character actions decides outcomes of events and presents the player with a game display illuminating what happened. In some games with multiple players each player may control one or more player characters.

A player of a game can directly engage in in game actions or indirectly via a player character in a role playing game. For example in game actions may include building a virtual town growing virtual crops going on a quest buying selling virtual items from a virtual store and the like. Many games also support acquisition of in game assets also referred to as rewards or loot by a player in order to facilitate control of player characters or to perform in game actions. Examples of in game assets include but are not limited to acquiring game points gold coins experience points character levels character attributes virtual cash game keys and other in game items of value within the game.

In an online game a specific playing space game settings in game assets etc. collectively referred to as game attributes may be uniquely associated with each player of the game. The specific game attributes for a given player may be accessed using a particular username and password. Accordingly unless a player knows the username and password or other access information required by the game of another player the player can only play within his her own playing space using his her own in game assets. In other words the player does not have access to another player s playing space game settings in game assets and the like. This may be true even for multi player games. A first player may engage in in game actions and interact with a second player in a common playing space. Nevertheless the first player may not have access to the second player s in game assets because those in game assets are associated with and only accessible by the second player. The second player similarly may not have access to the first player s in game assets.

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the claimed invention.

The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to create and use a computer system configuration and related method and article of manufacture to provide social game play using social network features. A player of an online game identifies a specific area within his her playing space for others to engage in social game play. The player also initiates a message from within the game inviting others to play in the user identified specific area of the player space. The player of the game also has an account in a separate social network platform. Within the social network platform there exists a set of users that are deemed to be the player s subscribers followers friends or recipients. Such followers automatically receive content generated by the player. Notably the message generated from within the game by the player for others to engage in social game play is automatically posted to the social network platform and in particular to each of the player s followers on the social network. When any of the followers expresses interest in engaging in social game play from within the social network platform a restricted version of the player s playing space namely the specific area previously specified by the player is provided to the follower. The follower may build decorate play or otherwise interact with the specific area and save those interactions. The follower notifies the player of the saved interaction with the specific area which may be deemed to be a submission to the player. A plurality of such submissions from one or more followers may be submitted to the player. The player can then selectively review the submissions from within the game and select one for incorporation into the player s actual playing space. The player can further generate message s regarding the winning submission and have those message s automatically post to the social network platform for his her followers.

Various modifications to the preferred embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Moreover in the following description numerous details are set forth for the purpose of explanation. However one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the invention may be practiced without the use of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and processes are not shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the description of the invention with unnecessary detail. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Social networking system is a network addressable computing system that can host one or more social graphs. Social networking system can generate store receive and transmit social networking data. Social networking system can be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . Game networking system is a network addressable computing system that can host one or more online games. Game networking system can generate store receive and transmit game related data such as for example game account data game input game state data and game displays. Game networking system can be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . Player may use client system to access send data to and receive data from social networking system and game networking system . Client system can access social networking system or game networking system directly via network or via a third party system. As an example and not by way of limitation client system may access game networking system via social networking system . Client system can be any suitable computing device such as a personal computer laptop cellular phone smart phone computing tablet etc.

Although illustrates a particular number of players social networking systems game networking systems client systems and networks this disclosure contemplates any suitable number of players social networking systems game networking systems client systems and networks . As an example and not by way of limitation system may include one or more game networking systems and no social networking systems . As another example and not by way of limitation system may include a system that comprises both social networking system and game networking system . Moreover although illustrates a particular arrangement of player social networking system game networking system client system and network this disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement of player social networking system game networking system client system and network .

The components of system may be connected to each other using any suitable connections . For example suitable connections include wireline such as Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH connections. In particular embodiments one or more connections each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network or another type of connection or a combination of two or more such connections. Connections need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first connections may differ in one or more respects from one or more second connections . Although illustrates particular connections between player social networking system game networking system client system and network this disclosure contemplates any suitable connections between player social networking system game networking system client system and network . As an example and not by way of limitation in particular embodiments client system may have a direct connection to social networking system or game networking system bypassing network .

In an online computer game a game engine manages the game state of the game. Game state comprises all game play parameters including player character state non player character NPC state in game object state game world state e.g. internal game clocks game environment and other game play parameters. Each player controls one or more player characters PCs . The game engine controls all other aspects of the game including non player characters NPCs and in game objects. The game engine also manages game state including player character state for currently active online and inactive offline players.

An online game can be hosted by game networking system which can be accessed using any suitable connection with a suitable client system . A player may have a game account on game networking system wherein the game account can contain a variety of information associated with the player e.g. the player s personal information financial information purchase history player character state game state . In some embodiments a player may play multiple games on game networking system which may maintain a single game account for the player with respect to all the games or multiple individual game accounts for each game with respect to the player. In some embodiments game networking system can assign a unique identifier to each player of an online game hosted on game networking system . Game networking system can determine that a player is accessing the online game by reading the user s cookies which may be appended to HTTP requests transmitted by client system and or by the player logging onto the online game.

In particular embodiments player may access an online game and control the game s progress via client system e.g. by inputting commands to the game at the client device . Client system can display the game interface receive inputs from player transmitting user inputs or other events to the game engine and receive instructions from the game engine. The game engine can be executed on any suitable system such as client system social networking system or game networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation client system can download client components of an online game which are executed locally while a remote game server such as game networking system provides backend support for the client components and may be responsible for maintaining application data of the game processing the inputs from the player updating and or synchronizing the game state based on the game logic and each input from the player and transmitting instructions to client system . As another example and not by way of limitation each time player provides an input to the game through the client system for example by typing on the keyboard or clicking the mouse of client system the client components of the game may transmit the player s input to game networking system . In various embodiments an online game can be embedded into a third party website. The game can be hosted by the networking system of the third party website or it can be hosted on game system and merely accessed via the third party website. The embedded online game can be hosted solely on a server of game system or using a third party vendor server. In addition any combination of the functions of the present disclosure can be hosted on or provided from any number of distributed network resources. For example one or more executable code objects that implement all or a portion of the game can be downloaded to a client system for execution.

The game interface can display various game components such as the game environment options available to the player e.g. in game actions preferences settings etc. game results etc. Some components of the game interface may be static while others may be dynamic e.g. changing with game play . The user may be able to interact with some components e.g. player character NPCs virtual objects etc. and not interact with other components e.g. the background of the virtual world such as the virtual street or sidewalk . The user can engage in specific in game actions or activities by providing input to game interface .

In the example online game illustrated in the user controls a virtual city implemented in an online social game. The game interface shows the virtual city and various components of the city. The player can interact with various elements of the virtual city such as virtual business objects and virtual housing objects . The user can click on or otherwise activate various aspects of the game interface to provide instructions to the game engine. The game interface also shows one or more elements to aid in realism of the virtual city such as NPCs . The NPCs comprise one or more representations of persons who may be walking sitting eating or otherwise engaged in some activity within the city in accordance with pre determined or random activities determined by the game engine. Typically the user does not control the NPCs .

The user can also click on various icons in game interface to activate various game options. For example if the user clicks on one of the icons in option bar the game engine will alter the game interface to present the user with options for buying and selling virtual items for use in the virtual city. For example the player could buy or sell virtual furniture appliances d cor windows goods etc. Similarly the user can click on other icons in option bar to access other game options.

One skilled in the art would appreciate that is presented merely as an example of an embodiment of one type of online game and that the present disclosure is intended to encompass a variety of game types including gambling games role playing games puzzle games etc.

Although some online games permit multiple players to interact with each other such as via control of their respective player characters within an instance of the game typically the interaction does not extend to user generated content UGC as it exists in social networking platforms. For example UGC such as generating tweets or following tweets on Twitter are considered to be real social which is typically absent in online games. Accordingly it would be beneficial to provide UGC as it exists in social networks with online games. It would also be advantageous to use UGC to facilitate social game play mechanic.

In some embodiments the game engine is configured to provide information from a social network platform to an online game provide user interaction features pertaining to the social network within the online game coordinate synchronization of information between the social network and the game and provides social game play mechanic for games that traditionally do not include social game play features. The social network may be hosted on the social networking system or some other system. Examples of social networks include but are not limited to Twitter Posterous FriendFeed Tumblr Facebook Dailybooth 12 Seconds micro blogging platforms blogging platforms social network platforms and the like.

When an instance of an online game is started block the authentication module is configured to check authorization from a user of the game about incorporating social network features into the game block . The social network features comprise features and or content associated with the user s account on a social network. In one embodiment the game presents an authorization request to the user each time the game is accessed by the user. In another embodiment the game presents an authorization request to the user once and then the authorization is considered to be on going in subsequent sessions of the game. In still another embodiment the game presents an initial authorization request to the user and then periodically repeats the authorization request because the user s authorization is valid for a pre determined period of time or number of game sessions. The user of the game may also be referred to as a player first user or celebrity. 

In one embodiment the authentication module performs authentication for the particular user with the social network block using an authentication protocol such as but not limited to OAuth. OAuth is configured to provide secure application programming interface API authorization. OAuth permits the user to approve an application e.g. an online game to act on his her behalf without sharing his her social network password with the application. A successful authentication typically returns to the game an access token or some kind of authorization authentication identifier for the particular user. This access token is stored by the game for subsequent use. Continuing the above example the access token permits the game to communicate with one or more Twitter APIs. Twitter REST API Twitter Streaming API and or Twitter Search API are examples of particular Twitter APIs that may be accessed to obtain Twitter content associated with the user as discussed below. In another embodiment rather than using OAuth Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP basic authentication may be used to access one or more Twitter APIs.

Next in a block the user specifies a particular portion of the virtual playing space of the game to use for social game play. The particular portion of the virtual playing space is also referred to as a designated area within the playing space. shows an example designated area within the playing space comprising a portion of a virtual city. To be described in detail below the user invites others to build city objects within the designated area from which the user selects one submission for actual incorporation into the user s virtual city. Traditionally the designated area and the rest of the user s virtual city would be inaccessible to everyone other than the user or at least not accessible to anyone who doesn t know the user s user name and password for the game . The designated area interaction module is configured to receive the user s identification of the designated area and track activities associated with the designated area.

Once a designated area has been selected the user generates an invitation from within the game for others to play within the designated area block . The in game communication module is configured to facilitate user generated content regarding the designated area e.g. for others to engage in social game play in the designated area . In a content generation interface is provided in the game for the user to compose an invitation or request to build in the designated area of the user s virtual city. The content generation interface shows for example the user starting to generate a message about the designated area e.g. Decorate my city . The in game communication module may work in conjunction with the designated area interaction module to automatically append additional content to the user generated content. For example a link to access the designated area may be appended to the user generated content so that person s receiving the user s invitation may merely click on the provided link to start building or decorating the designated area. Alternatively the in game communication module may be configured to automatically generate an invitation in response to the user specifying the designated area within the user s playing space.

When the user completes composing the invitation the export content module automatically posts the invitation along with any appended content to the social network block . Continuing the Twitter example the export content module uses the Twitter APIs and stored access token to post the message without knowing or using the user s Twitter password. The posted message also referred to as a tweet is automatically provided to the Twitter users that subscribes to or follows the game player on Twitter. These Twitter subscribers or followers are also referred to as the user s followers friends or subscribers. In an exemplary Twitter post is shown displayed on the user s follower s Twitter page that corresponds to the user generated invitation. The Twitter post comprises an identifier of the user e.g. a picture of the user a user generated message as composed by the user in interface and an appended content e.g. a link to access the designated area . A link included in the appended content comprises a uniform resource locator URL to a particular page pertaining to the designated area provided by the game engine. Although not shown the appended content may include additional information such as an inducement by the game to tempt the user s followers to build in the designated area. Possible inducement includes but is not limited to information about prizes for winning submissions.

For example if the user clicks on one of the icons in option bar the game engine will alter the game interface to present the user with options for buying and selling virtual items for use in the virtual city. For example the player could buy or sell virtual furniture appliances d cor windows goods etc. Similarly the user can click on other icons in option bar to access other game options.

Once the user s follower has completed interacting with the designated area the result also referred to as a follower s submission play result play change or play interactions is saved block by the game engine. Then the user s follower generates a message to the user providing notification of the completed effort block . The message represents the user s follower s submission to the user. In one embodiment the game engine provides an interface within the game for the user s follower to compose the notification message and then the notification message is automatically posted in the social network by the export content module . In another embodiment the user s follower generates the notification message directly on the social network platform. In an alternate embodiment the game engine is configured to automatically generate and post a notification message to the social network when the user s follower saves modifications to the designated area or otherwise indicates completion of building in the designated area . In any case the notification message is displayed on the user s social network page. shows the user s Twitter page including a first post a second post and a third post . The first post comprises the invitation from the user in this example the user s user name is aarkay1 to build or decorate his her city in a separate online game. The second post comprises a notification message from a user s follower in this example the user s follower is CarticEyyer that he she has completed building in the designated area. The third post comprises a notification message from another of the user s follower in this example the user s follower is davetTester that he she has also completed building in the designated area.

Blocks are performed for each of the user s followers that wishes to build decorate play or otherwise interact in the designated area. In one embodiment a given follower may even submit more than one submission to the user. It is understood that each follower s modifications to the designated area is not cumulative of each other. Instead the designated area interaction module provides a different instance of the designated area page to each follower and separately keeps track of each follower s modifications to the designated area. As such in all of follower CarticEyyer s changes to the empty designated area comprises a submission and all of follower davetTester s changes to the empty designated area comprises a separate submission.

If the user s invitation to decorate his her city e.g. Twitter post or at least the link included in the invitation is forwarded or retweeted to other persons persons other than the user s followers then those persons also have access to the designated area by clicking on the link. Those persons can similarly interact with the designated area as discussed above for blocks to provide a submission to the user. All persons who receive the invitation directly or indirectly are considered to be recipients of the invitation.

The sorting order of the submissions for purposes of presenting to the user can be based on one or more pre determined criteria. In one embodiment the greater the worshipping actions by a person to the user the closer that person s submission will be to being the first submission presented to the user. Worshipping actions include but are not limited to number of Mentions number of Retweets or the like. In another embodiment the sorting order may merely be the order in which the submissions were completed. In still another embodiment the submissions that are the most elaborate most use of building objects most use of cash items or higher value items and or use of objects that are themed around a celebrity may be the sorting criteria. In other embodiments the game engine may use other criterion that promotes certain goals pertaining to the game.

Next in a block the submissions are displayed to the user in the game. The submissions are initially presented as thumbnails or objects in the order determined in the block . Then when the user expresses an interest in viewing a particular submission a full view of that submission is presented to the user. shows the game interface including the designated area for now empty and a submission interaction bar . The submission interaction bar includes objects corresponding to the submissions a first object corresponding to a first submission a second object corresponding to a second submission etc. Each object includes a graphical icon or picture representative of the person that provided the submission a button to view the submission e.g. preview button and a button to compose a message to the person that provided a submission for posting in the social network e.g. tweet button . The submission interaction bar further includes a pair of arrows to scroll through all the objects corresponding to the submissions.

If for example the user clicks on the preview button to view the first submission block the designated area interaction module facilitates displaying the first submission to the user. illustrates an exemplary designated area submission displayed to the user. The user can click on preview buttons for other submission s and the designated area interaction module similarly facilitates display of those submissions to the user. Alternatively the user may mouse over or otherwise indicate interest in a particular submission from among the plurality of submissions and the game engine displayed the particular submission to the user for review.

The user may take any number of actions with respect to one or more submissions. For example the user may discard submission s that he she considers to be substandard. As another example the user may annotate worthy submission s for later reference. Once the user selects a winning submission from among the plurality of submissions block that submission is merged into the user s playing space block . The designated area of the user s virtual city is updated from an empty space or plot into whatever building decoration or modifications the winning submission had for the designated area.

The user composes a message from within the game to notify the person that submitted the winning submission that his her submission was the winning submission block . The in game communication module is configured to facilitate message compositions from within the game. A messaging interface similar to that shown in may be provided for the user to input a message. The message is then automatically posted to the social network by the export content module block . Continuing the Twitter example the Twitter post or tweet from the user may be in the following format Thanks You won. Here is your reward . shows an exemplary Twitter post from the user of the game e.g. aarkay1 congratulating the submission winner e.g. davetTester and optionally including a reward link.

The reward also referred to as a gift may be redeemed by clicking on a link for a uniform resource locator URL to a particular page provided by the game engine. The reward may encompass a variety of rewards selected by the game engine. In one embodiment the same default gift may be provided to all social network posts that also indicated inclusion of a gift generated within the game. In another embodiment the game engine may be configured to provide customized gifts depending on the profile of the user or the follower. For example if the user has a large number of followers the user may be deemed to be influential and it may be advantageous to provide gifts to the user s followers that are more generous than a default gift. Similarly if the user or follower is a known celebrity or other well known person it may be advantageous to provide a higher than average gift to entice that person to play the game and spread the word about the game. In still another embodiment the user s activities within the game e.g. how much time is spent playing the game or how much money is spent playing the game may determine the level of gift to send to the user s follower. In yet still another embodiment the game engine may randomly select from a pre set group of gifts. In another embodiment the game engine may study the click through success rate of sent gifts and increase successive use of those gifts with the highest click through success rates.

Examples of gifts include but are not limited to a certain amount of points currency items or other items having a denomination of value within the game a monetary credit that can be used as real money within the game an insider tip to advance in the game other real or virtual item pertaining to game play and the like. The denominational value or type of gift may change over time and may encompass any possibility that relates to playing or joining the game.

In some embodiments the user may also post a message to all the people who provided a submission to provide closure such as for example announcing the winner providing a link to view the winning submission and the like. In other embodiments persons who submitted a submission but were not winners or were one of the top five submissions may also get a nominal reward.

In this manner there is provided seamless integration of an online game with a social network. The integration leverages the narcissism aspects of the social network e.g. Twitter followers compete for the game player s attention and provides a social game play mechanic for games that are not typically configured for social game play e.g. Twitter followers can access and build decorate interact with at least a part of the game player s playing space. Provisioning the social game play mechanic with social network features opens up a new distribution channel of potentially millions of players to the game. Especially when the user of the game that initiates the invitation for others to decorate his her city is in fact a well known celebrity the user s large number of followers in the social network represents a built in distribution channel to engage new players into the game.

The elements of hardware system are described in greater detail below. In particular network interface provides communication between hardware system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. Mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described functions implemented in servers whereas system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by processor . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system .

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain embodiments of the present disclosure may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Of course other embodiments are possible. For example the functions described herein may be implemented in firmware or on an application specific integrated circuit.

Furthermore the above described elements and operations can be comprised of instructions that are stored on non transitory storage media. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processing system. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of non transitory storage media are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processing system to direct the processing system to operate in accord with the disclosure. The term processing system refers to a single processing device or a group of inter operational processing devices. Some examples of processing devices are integrated circuits and logic circuitry. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions computers and storage media.

In this manner user generated content from within an online game posts to a social network platform in real time or near real time that in turn draws recipients of the content from the social network into the game to engage in social game play. Recipients engaging in social game play have restricted access to the playing space in accordance with limitations set by the actual player associated with the playing space. Once recipients interaction with the playing space is completed the actual player associated with the playing space can selectively review the recipients interactions and select a particular recipient s interaction submission for incorporation into the playing space. As the actual player reviews and selects from among the interaction submissions by the recipients additional user generated content from within the game also posts to the social network platform in real time or near real time .

One or more features from any embodiment may be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

A recitation of a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless specifically indicated to the contrary. In addition it is to be understood that functional operations such as awarding locating permitting and the like are executed by game application logic that accesses and or causes changes to various data attribute values maintained in a database or other memory.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

For example the methods game features and game mechanics described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. By way of example while embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as operating in connection with a networking website various embodiments of the present disclosure can be used in connection with any communications facility that supports web applications. Furthermore in some embodiments the term web service and website may be used interchangeably and additionally may refer to a custom or generalized API on a device such as a mobile device e.g. cellular phone smart phone personal GPS personal digital assistance personal gaming device etc. that makes API calls directly to a server. Still further while the embodiments described above operate with business related virtual objects such as stores and restaurants the invention can be applied to any in game asset around which a harvest mechanic is implemented such as a virtual stove a plot of land and the like. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the disclosure as set forth in the claims and that the disclosure is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

