---

title: User status displaying method, and server
abstract: A method for displaying user status is provided. The method includes: obtaining original information of a user from an information source which is an application, by calling an application programming interface (API) of the information source, wherein the original information comprises an identifier of the user in the information source, contents posted by the user in the original source; parsing the original information of the user, and obtaining user status information of the user; obtaining a virtual image of the user which matches the user status information from a virtual image database according to the user status information; and notifying a virtual image displaying terminal to display the virtual image of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509787&OS=09509787&RS=09509787
owner: HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.
number: 09509787
owner_city: Shenzhen
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20121227
---
This application is a continuation of International Application No. PCT CN2012 079017 filed Jul. 23 2012 and titled USER STATUS DISPLAYING METHOD DISPLAYING TERMINAL AND SERVER which claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201210004380.7 filed with the Chinese Patent Office on Jan. 9 2012 and titled USER STATUS DISPLAYING METHOD DISPLAYING TERMINAL AND SERVER both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates to the communication field and in particular to a user status displaying method a virtual image displaying terminal and a virtual image server.

With the development of Internet services people communicate with each other by using more and more diversified modes from the conventional telephone short message and Email to recent instant messaging micro blogging social networking services SNS and so on. The diversified communication modes provide more communication opportunities but the communication effect is poorer than that of face to face communication.

To enhance interactivity all network applications in the prior art provide user status displaying including displaying a user mood and a virtual image. The user status is usually displayed in an address book for example in the address book on a mobile phone in the address book of instant messaging software in the user information of SNS and in the user information of micro blogging. The displaying is displaying of an image or a paragraph of texts where the image includes a self shot photo a cartoon image a scene and so on and the texts include the description about the user status. A user may manually replace the image or modify texts to adjust the user status. However using the image and text content is far insufficient for displaying the particular mood and status of the user.

In one aspect the present invention provides a method for displaying user status. The method includes obtaining original information of a user from an information source which is an application by calling an application programming interface API of the information source wherein the original information comprises an identifier of the user in the information source contents posted by the user in the original source parsing the original information of the user and obtaining user status information of the user obtaining a virtual image of the user which matches the user status information from a virtual image database according to the user status information and notifying a virtual image displaying terminal to display the virtual image of the user.

In another aspect the present invention provides a virtual image server which includes an obtaining unit configured to obtain original information of a user from an information source which is an application by calling an application programming interface API of the information source wherein the original information comprises an identifier of the user in the information source contents posted by the user in the original source a parsing unit configured to parse the original information of the user and obtain user status information of the user a matching unit configured to obtain a virtual image of the user which matches the user status information from a virtual image database according to the user status information obtained by the parsing unit and a notifying unit configured to notify a virtual image displaying terminal to display the virtual image of the user.

With the method for displaying user status according to some embodiments of the present invention the virtual image reflects the mood and status of the real user to some extent and provides a new means of self expression for the user. In addition in the tense modern life friends can contact each other without using real time phones or short messages thereby saving communication time.

The following clearly and completely describes the technical solutions according to the embodiments of the present invention with reference to the accompanying drawings in the embodiments of the present invention. Apparently the embodiments in the following description are merely a part rather than all of the embodiments of the present invention. All other embodiments obtained by persons of ordinary skill in the art based on the embodiments of the present invention without creative efforts shall fall within the protection scope of the present invention.

Specifically this step involves an original information obtaining unit and an information source. The original information obtaining unit is responsible for obtaining user related information from different information sources and needs to adapt to the interface of the information source. For example to obtain the speech content of a particular user from Sina micro blogging it is necessary to obtain the user original information according to the interface provided by Sina micro blogging.

Optionally the original information obtaining unit may be a part of the virtual image server or a separate apparatus. The information source is an application in the Internet or a terminal. Any application which is open and from which user original information can be obtained may serve as an information source. The information source may be classified into two types a passive type which requires that the original information obtaining unit should perform active search and analysis to obtain the user status and an active type which actively reports the user original information to the original information obtaining unit after a user or a friend of the user actively updates the status.

A timer may be set to start the collection task at an interval. The timer may record the previous collection time and may also define that the task currently started is to collect new user original information in an incremental way.

Optionally the obtaining process may be as follows The original information obtaining unit actively requests to obtain the user ID list from the virtual image server or the virtual image server delivers the user ID list to the original information obtaining unit beforehand. The specific user ID list may include an information source ID and a user ID registered on the information source by the user so that the information obtaining unit obtains the user original information from the information source according to the user ID list through the open interface provided by the information source.

Specific parameters are input according to the API requirement of the information source so that the user original information is obtained from the information source through the API interface. The user original information may include the information such as the user identifier of the user on the information source published article or contents and publishing time.

After obtaining the user original information from the information source the original information obtaining unit may send the user original information to the virtual image server so that the virtual image server parses the user original information to obtain the user status information. Optionally the original information obtaining unit may also parse the obtained user original information to obtain the user status information and then return the user status information to the virtual image server.

The parsing method may be extracting a keyword indicating the user status as user status information by using an extraction algorithm for example the part of speech tagging and text classification technology.

Optionally the virtual image server has a synonym near synonym library and the above extracted keyword is extended through the library to increase the coverage of the user status information so that the virtual image server matches a suitable virtual image more easily and conveniently.

The following takes Sina micro blogging as an example to describe how to obtain user original information.

The following is input parameters of the Sina micro blogging API returning a list of micro blogging messages lately published by the user 

The following is a example of a result returned by Sina micro blogging upon receiving the above request 

By parsing the returned search result required information is obtained speech and operation record of the user on the information source and so on. In the returned message the content is the expected collection result and the important attribute is the publishing time and published content 

Further analysis is performed for the parsed content by using an algorithm for example part of speech tagging and text classification to obtain the user status information. Examples of the user status information are the user ID operation type such as posting a topic on micro blogging or posting a topic on a forum and commenting and operation content keyword for example Dongmen shopping and happy . The structured user status information is sent to the virtual image server so that the virtual image server matches a suitable virtual image according to the user status information. It should be noted that the structured user status information may be designed according to the requirement and is not limited to the above structures. In addition the used content extraction algorithm may also be other algorithms and other text analysis technologies are used to improve accuracy of the analyzed content.

The virtual image complies with the HTML5 standard and includes three parts multimedia content for example background image multiple layer foreground image video interactive image and audio JavaScript script and CSS script controlling the above multimedia content and description a group of tags about the virtual image. The use of the above multimedia content by different virtual images varies. For example only a picture is used or a snow effect is added on the picture a video is used a picture and background music are used or a cartoon segment is used.

The virtual image provides an uniform resource identifier URI for the user to access on the Internet that is if the above address is input in the browser the content of the address can be played. Each URI corresponds to the minimum unit of the virtual image which is called an image segment each image segment expresses a certain topic the topic is described by tags and each segment can last a period.

Multiple segments of the same topic or similar topics constitute a group of virtual images for example in a group of virtual images whose topic is the cartoon character pleasant goat some segments express the happy state the angry state or the sleeping state and so on which can be initially defined by the producer by using tags the user may also modify the tags after subscription . Whether multiple image segments are within a group is specified by the producer or the user. Each group has a group ID. Therefore when a subscriber to the virtual image shares the virtual image with friends sharing can be performed in units of groups.

Different virtual images have different expressive force. For example the facial emotion of a virtual person is suitable for displaying the happy angry and surprised states the action of a virtual person is suitable for displaying the busy state a picture of a rural scene is suitable for displaying the idle state a cartoon animal image is suitable for displaying the lovely and amusing states.

The following table is an example of virtual image tags where the number in brackets indicates the degree of matching between the tag and the content and 1 indicates completely matching 

Optionally the developer of virtual images packages and uploads the developed virtual images to the virtual image server. The virtual image server manages the uploaded virtual images and establishes an index for tags of the virtual images for search.

Optionally a user subscription step is also included. The user views and subscribes to virtual images by using the list tags and indexes of virtual images. Because each virtual image segment has special features if the user wants to obtain a virtual image with strong expressive force the user needs to subscribe to multiple virtual images. The virtual image server groups the virtual images subscribed to by the user. Each group includes one or more virtual images. Certainly the user may intervene in the grouping process and in this way the virtual image server generates a URI for each group of virtual images. And the virtual image server returns the generated URI to the user for use. Optionally the user may manage the virtual images and the management includes adding a tag adjusting the displaying priority adjusting the displaying time period unsubscribing manually modifying the user status and so on. The user may send the virtual image URI to friends and notify the friends of using the images where a URI represents a group of virtual images. Thereby the friends of the user can browse the user virtual images after inputting the URI in the browser. For example the address book of the terminal of a friend integrates the virtual image displaying function the URI is added to the address book of the terminal of the friend and the specific user in the address book is bound with the group of virtual images. In this way the user terminal may dynamically display the update of the user virtual images. After the user status information is updated the virtual image server selects a suitable virtual image according to the correspondence and matching between the user status information and the virtual image tag.

After the user status information is updated the virtual image server notifies in a push mode the virtual image displaying terminal of the change of the user status matches the suitable virtual image according to the updated user status information and notifies the virtual image displaying terminal of displaying the updated virtual image. Optionally the virtual image displaying terminal may edit the user status information or affect the user status information by interacting with the interactive virtual image and trigger the virtual image server to update the user virtual image. For example when the virtual image is displayed on the terminal the friend may touch or hit the virtual image speak to the microphone or throw the mobile phone supported by a sensor input a text and so on. The interactive information of the friend is transferred to the server and the server makes analysis and obtains a group of keywords where the keywords further affect the status of the virtual image. For example if the virtual image is a cartoon character and the friend hits the face of the virtual image the server analyzes the obtained touch screen action to obtain the hit operation and then drives the virtual image to play the crying voice.

Optionally the terminal of the friend may actively query the current user status information from the virtual server so as to trigger the virtual server to update the virtual image or may also review the historical virtual image by inputting parameters such as a virtual image user ID and query time range.

With the user status displaying method according to the embodiment of the present invention the virtual image reflects the mood and status of the real user to some extent and provides a new means of self expression for the user. In addition in the tense modern life friends can contact each other by observing the virtual image and interactive operations other than using real time phones or short messages thereby saving time. Meanwhile as the Internet has a deeper impact on people s life people s online life becomes an increasingly important part of their life apart from the offline life. Facing different friend groups people require different incarnations to represent themselves and multiple virtual images of a person meet the requirement.

The virtual image displaying terminal for example a mobile phone and a tablet integrates a virtual image displaying module such as an address book and an instant messaging application. The virtual image displaying module may display the user virtual image. For example each contact in the contact list in the address book has a virtual image. For example for the instant messaging application each contact in the contact list may have a virtual image which may be a picture an animation a video and so on. When the user of the virtual image displaying terminal uses the address book or the instant messaging application the virtual image displaying terminal may be triggered to send a user such as contact virtual image update request to the virtual image server so as to display the latest user virtual image.

After receiving the user virtual image update request the virtual image server first obtains the latest user status information and then selects according to the user status information the virtual image matching the user status information from the virtual image server as the current user virtual image. Optionally the virtual image server may also allocate a group of virtual images to the user according to a user virtual image subscription request after receiving the user virtual image update request the virtual image server may select according to the user status information a virtual image matching the user status information from the group of virtual images as the current user virtual image and return the virtual image to the virtual image displaying terminal.

The virtual image displaying terminal includes a sending unit a receiving unit and a displaying unit and optionally may further include a subscribing unit . The sending unit is configured to send a virtual image update request including a user identifier to a virtual image server the receiving unit is configured to receive a user virtual image returned by the virtual image server where the user virtual image is a user virtual image selected by the virtual image server from a virtual image database according to user status information and matching the user status information and the displaying unit is configured to display the obtained user virtual image. Optionally the subscribing unit is further included and is configured to send a virtual image subscription request to the virtual image server so that the virtual image server allocates a group of virtual images to a user according to the subscription request.

The virtual image displaying terminal may be a terminal integrating a virtual image displaying module such as an address book and an instant messaging application such as a mobile phone a computer or a tablet. When the user of the virtual image displaying terminal uses the address book or the instant messaging application the sending unit may be triggered to send a user such as contact virtual image update request to the virtual image server so as to display the latest user virtual image.

After receiving the user virtual image update request the virtual image server first obtains the latest user status information and then selects according to the user status information the virtual image matching the user status information from the virtual image server as the current user virtual image. Optionally the virtual image server may also allocate a group of virtual images to the user according to the user virtual image subscription request after receiving the user virtual image update request the virtual image server may select according to the user status information a virtual image matching the user status information from the group of virtual images as the current user virtual image and return the virtual image to the receiving unit so that the displaying unit displays the virtual image.

Specifically the obtaining unit is configured to obtain user original information from an information source the parsing unit is configured to parse the user original information obtained by the obtaining unit and obtain user status information and the matching unit is configured to obtain a user virtual image matching the user status information from the virtual image database according to the user status information obtained by the parsing unit . The notifying unit is configured to notify a virtual image displaying terminal so that the virtual image displaying terminal displays the user virtual image.

Optionally a sending unit is included and configured to send a user identifier list to the obtaining unit so that the obtaining unit obtains the user original information from the information source according to the user identifier list.

Specifically the sending unit sends the user identifier list including an information source ID and the user ID registered on the information source by the user to the obtaining unit and the obtaining unit may be a separate apparatus or may also be a part of the virtual image server. The obtaining unit calls according to the obtained information source ID the open application programming interface API of the information source and inputs specific parameters according to API requirements of the information source and thereby obtains the user original information from the information source through the API interface. The user original information may include the information such as the user identifier of the user on the information source published article or contents and publishing time. After obtaining the user original information from the information source the obtaining unit may send the original information to the parsing unit so that the parsing unit parses the user original information to obtain the user status information. Optionally the obtaining unit may also parse the obtained user original information to obtain the user status information and then return the user status information to the parsing unit .

Optionally a subscribing unit is included and configured to subscribe to user virtual images. A user may perform virtual image search subscribing grouping and so on through the subscribing unit the subscribing unit performs grouping management for the virtual images subscribed to by the user and provides the images for the user to use. The matching unit selects according to the user status information a virtual image matching the user status information from the group of virtual images allocated by the subscribing unit to the user as the current user virtual image and notifies through the notifying unit the virtual image displaying terminal of displaying the current user virtual image.

The virtual image server in the embodiment of the present invention may provide virtual image management subscribing and matching. The virtual image reflects the mood and status of the real user to some extent and provides a new means of self expression for the user. In addition in the tense modern life friends can contact each other without using real time phones or short messages thereby saving communication time. Meanwhile as the Internet has a deeper impact on people s life people s online life becomes an increasingly important part of their life apart from the offline life. Facing different friend groups people require different incarnations to represent themselves and multiple virtual images of a person meet the requirement.

Persons of ordinary skill in the art should understand that all or a part of the processes of the methods in the embodiments may be implemented by a computer program instructing relevant hardware. The program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium. When the program is run the processes of the methods in the embodiments are performed. The storage medium may be a magnetic disk a CD ROM a read only memory Read Only Memory ROM or a random access memory Random Access Memory RAM .

In conclusion the foregoing is merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention but not intended to limit the protection scope of the present invention. Any modification equivalent replacement or improvement made without departing from the spirit principle of the present invention shall fall within the protection scope of the present invention.

