---

title: System and method of direct marketing based on explicit or implied association with location derived from social media content
abstract: A system and method delivers marketing messages based on location specific check-ins. This permits highly targeted communications directed at first entities such as persons, organizations, or businesses who are patrons of second entity locations which are typically businesses. Selection of first entities is based on detection of past or potential patronage of second entities through social media or other public digital content check-ins. Check-ins are analyzed to identify any second entity referred to and associating such reference to the author of the content. Second entities, such as a merchant or brand, may be explicitly determined from meta-data of source content, or implicitly through processing such as natural language analysis or association through a third entity. Second entities use such connections to deliver targeted marketing messages through a public social media profile of the first entity. Analytics may be used to track of check-in patterns and effectiveness of marketing campaigns.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09147202&OS=09147202&RS=09147202
owner: LocalResponse, Inc.
number: 09147202
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120831
---
This utility patent application claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 530 224 filed Sep. 1 2011 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD OF DIRECT MARKETING BASED ON EXPLICIT OR IMPLIED ASSOCIATION WITH LOCATION DERIVED FROM SOCIAL MEDIA CONTENT in the name of Michael Muse and Nihal Mehta.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. Copyright 2012 LocalResponse Inc.

This disclosure is related to social media marketing based on location detection and more specifically integrates all means of location extraction from accessible social media online content associations between separated online social media services to better determine location and provides that location s administrator information in selectable fashion to use in location specific patron identification and direct communication.

The present invention is closely tied to social media and mobile devices. Social media mobile devices and their interrelation are thus described in the following order.

The term social media refers to the use of web based and mobile technologies for social communications. In concrete terms social media is user generated digital content about people businesses or any topic produced as an artifact of social interaction using ubiquitously accessible and scalable communication techniques most notably Internet connected personal computers desktops or portables and mobile devise in particular smartphones. By its very nature social media digital content is public to varying degrees. At minimum it is public to an audience selected by the content author at widest it is open to the general public. Social media has been widely adopted by the general public since web based applications and services started to appear in the early 2000s. Mobile devices smartphones in particular have also gained wide pubic adoption. Social media and smartphones have co evolved and are closely related. Social media relies on the communications aspect of smart phones and one of the most common applications of smartphones is social media.

Social media can take on many different forms. Although there is considerable overlap these forms can be generally categorized into the following groups social networking geolocation media sharing such as photos videos and presentations social bookmarking blogs wikis file sharing and event planning.

Social networking services allow users to add friends send messages and share content. Popular services for social networking include Google Facebook LinkedIn and Twitter. The last may also be considered to be a micro blog and is popular with mobile device users. These services may be for general use or optimized for a narrower scope such as business and career related networking. People on social networking services group in communities of like minded interest. Social networking may be considered the basis of all other types of social media the other types also allow for networking though they are typically specialized in sharing certain content types such as one s geographical location. Smartphones carried by a person at any given time facilitate timely remote social networking.

Geolocation services such as Gowalla Foursquare and Yelp feature check in capabilities. A check in is a process where users can if they choose share their location usually at the immediate present and comments about it with their social connections. Examples of location types to which check ins commonly occur are public destinations such as restaurants bars retail shops clubs parks stadiums museums tourist attractions and various types of entertainment venues. Where supported capabilities such as geocoding and geotagging are used to enrich social dynamics and networking. User submitted location data or geolocation techniques allow social networks to connect and coordinate users with others for events matching their interests. Geolocation on web based social network services is often IP based. Gelocation services are closely allied with mobile devices and Global Positioning System GPS commonly imbedded in mobile devices smartphones in particular make location based services easier to use by applying user coordinates at the time of check in while at a location of interest. Smartphones are appealing in that they allow more timely and convenient check ins.

Media sharing includes subcategories of photo video and audio sharing. Photo sharing sites in particular are where people can upload photos to share either privately with select users. Examples of popular services include Flickr Photobucket and Instagram. These services allow users to describe their photographs with keyword tags or describe them in detail. Longitude and latitude coordinates imbedded into meta data of photographs taken using devices equipped with GPS such as most modern smartphones may allow easier identification of locations where photo was taken. The coordinates can be linked to such services such as Google Maps.

The disclosed systems and methods improve currently existing geolocation social media as the latter does not exploit applicable data from other forms of social media. For example blogs discussions or tweets at various other forms of social media services not specifically geolocation oriented can serve as a type of implicit check in where location can be extrapolated from key word and semantic analysis of content in real time or asynchronously from user generated text content. Additionally check in data may be extracted from other forms of media. For example GPS coordinates imbedded into meta data of photographs can also become a source of implicit check in data. In contrast Gowalla Foursquare and other geolocation social media rely exclusively on explicit check ins where a location must be specified from an already existing list or be added prior to checking in which many users are unwilling to perform. Thus immense untapped data from non geolocation social media can provide a much larger data set which merchants and even regional national or international commercial brands not directly linked to one particular geographical location can turn implied presence of a uniquely identifiable patron at a unique location into valuable marketing transactions.

The disclosed systems and methods utilize that refined data in a useful manner by providing a means to selectively direct marketing messages to social media users who have checked in to a location having accurately identified those users. This is in contrast to mass marketing or broadcasting techniques of prior art which have low efficiency.

The disclosed systems and methods combine technologies to extract value out of the inherent noise in social media and apply that value to targeted marketing.

To establish consistent terminology of use case actors distinction is made between patrons and locations. Patrons may be persons organizations or businesses. These may be considered visitors or customers of locations or potential visitors or customers. Patrons are social media content authors or are referenced by or associated with the social media content. Locations may be persons geographic locations organizations businesses and brands. In preferred embodiments within this disclosure they are conventionally businesses either geographically fixed merchants or borderless brands wishing a targeted marketing campaign aimed at patrons. In some cases locations may be organizations or other entities reaching out to patrons on a targeted individual basis. Location administrator is typically a proprietor or someone authorized for marketing purposes to act for the location.

1. Collection and Refinement of Check Ins. Social media user and a location are linked for purposes of identifying the user as a patron of that location.

2. Patron Management. Patrons pertaining to a location are displayed for further actions such as selection for messaging.

3. Marketing Message and Analytics. This pertains to contacting the patron though means provided by the social media service from which check in was derived and examining patron behavior such as in response to messages.

In a preferred embodiment check ins from social media services such as Facebook Twitter Foursquare Gowalla Instagram and others are collected and aggregated to provide an interface for location administrators to react with direct local response to patrons or would be patrons.

Data is collected from social media services in multiple ways. For example the system may poll social media web sites for public check ins at location based services such as Foursquare Gowalla and Yelp. This is explicit check in since location is part of the data. Many of these services are integrated with another social media site such as Twitter for actual publication of the check in. In such a case the system polls that secondary site which provides at minimum the social media content its author patron date and location. As another example the same type of data minus location may be collected from non location based social media services such as Twitter Facebook Instagram Path Foodspotting etc. Since location is not explicitly part of the data the system infers location and refines it through various means and then matches it to the patron. This is referred to as implicit check in. Most social media check ins are implicit and so this valuable data is not missed.

Implicit check in may be performed by a combination of key word matching and natural language processing. For example the system may run hundreds of search terms across its data for a particular location. Locations are pre indexed with individually customizable search terms. Implicit check in may also be obtained from data types other than text. For example photographs may have tags and geolocation data provided by the social media service such that these become searchable. Quality of matches determines whether a piece of social media content is accepted as having veritable location.

Location data is further refined by querying remote services that collect aggregate and analyze social media content. The exact nature of the remote services may change from time to time as new services arise and others are no longer available or required. However in general queries to remote services seek to remove false positives in previous steps thus improving data quality.

The result is that the system associates patrons with a veritable location and is able to accurately inform the location administrator about the location s actual patrons.

The system allows location administrators access to a dashboard which shows patrons that checked in to a selected location within a selectable time period. A registered login may be required.

Patrons may be displayed in various manners such as an alphanumeric list or by their public avatars from the social media service from which their check in originated. Patrons may be ordered by date of check in social media that registered the check in calculated geographic proximity to the location etc. such that information is usefully organized.

Details other than check ins such as patron s public profile gathered from social media services is available and may help determine selection for messaging. Examples include the number of times a patron checked in to a location or the number of times a patron was messaged and responded to marketing campaigns. Influence held by the patron in the social media sphere may be obtained directly from the social media service associated with the check in and include information such as the number of followers for the purposes of selecting candidates for messaging.

The displayed data may be enhanced by remote services the types of which may change from time to time as new services arise and others are no longer available or required. Remote services may include a social influence rating service such as Klout that provides data on patrons to assist determining best candidates in the social media sphere for word of mouth referrals.

While information about patrons is useful from a marketing perspective the user interface also provides a means for the location administrator to send selected patrons a public reply on a social media service usually the service where content was authored.

The system permits responses to check ins. Once a set of patrons has been identified the location administrator may desire to communicate with those patrons. By messaging to selected patrons it is possible to send a targeted and customizable response. Message sending may be configured for any communicate site or method such as public and private messages on social media services or direct communications by texting or email. By using the public messaging system of the original social media source it is possible to send non intrusive message to the patron and in some cases to would be patrons. For example responses via Facebook may be through on the patron s wall while messages via Twitter may be public posts using mention form to direct to the intended recipient. Responses may be a marketing message offer electronic coupon or link to further content. The system makes available a number of stock responses or permits a custom message instead.

Quantity of messages can be regulated and configured. For example rules for rate limiting may stipulate that a patron will never receive more than 1 message per day from all locations entitled to send messages to the patron using the system. In another example frequency capping may impose the maximum quantity of messages that a single user will get from the same merchant within a time period such as 1 per week. In another example the location administrator may be limited to no more than 20 messages per day or be provided with a replenishable number of credits for messaging. Patron also may be provided the right to opt out of receiving messages.

The system provides analytics on the messaging campaign. Analytics may be displayed alphanumerically and or graphically such as by use of charts. At minimum the analytics keeps track of to whom a message has been sent and how many patrons have responded. These analytics may be used as a way of gauging success of a marketing campaign. Analytics may also provide demographic profiles of patrons obtained from original social media service or by remote data services such as Rapleaf which process social media. The exact remote service for analytics may change from time to time as new services arise and others are no longer available or required. Along with demographics other consumer behavior analytics such as gender time of day day of week when checked in loyalty check in frequency sentiment etc. may aid in composing marketing messages and selecting patrons to whom to send it. For example the message may include a coupon for certain type of drink offered by a bar to a certain patron profile for a certain time of day if for example check ins to locations of that type were found to be popular with or desirable to that patron profile at a certain time of day of the week.

In the following detailed description of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be used and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The system of a preferred embodiment consists of a network one or more network based servers computing devices with a central database software and input output and any number of clients computing devices with software and input output.

Referring to a generic system overview of entities is illustrated. System is comprised of any number of Social Media Clients any number of Data Service Clients one or more network based servers known as Social Media Service one or more network based servers known as Data Service and network . Via network interactions may occur between Social Media Clients and Social Media Service Data Service Clients and Data Service and Social Media Service and Data Service . More specifically Social Media Service provides raw data to Data Service which processes the raw data and makes it available to Data Service Clients . Data Service may also intermediate interactions between Social Media Service and Data Service Clients such as for purposes of reaching Social Media Clients Network may be any of method of connecting Clients and Services. This generic system is the basis of embodiments.

Referring also to a preferred embodiment of system is illustrated. This is comprised of any number of Social Media Clients any number of Data Service Clients and one or more Social Media Service s . Data service is separated into Internal Data Service which may consist of set of distributed servers and one or more Remote Service s . Clients and data services communicate with each other through interconnected networks. The network consists of Internet and Mobile Carrier Network .

Social Media Clients and Data Server Clients are operated by human users and consist of network connected computing devices such as but not limited to desktop or laptop computers and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. Social Media Clients and Social Media Service s interact with each other via Internet Mobile Carrier Network or both depending on their capability and user preference if options exist. Data Service Clients and Internal Data Service interact with each other typically by Internet or through an internal network. Internal Data Service interacts with Remote Service s and Social Media Service s via Internet and Social Media Service s and Remote Services s may interact with each other via Internet .

Social Media Service s may be Internet based sites such as but not limited to Twitter Facebook Foursquare Gowalla Yelp Instagram Path Color Foodspotting Flickr etc. while Remote Service s may be a database marketing services as Rapleaf and Klout or other services that augments data from Social Media Service s Exact Social Media Service s and Remote Services s may change from time to time as new services arise and others are no longer available or required. However the notion that Internal Data Service may utilize external data as necessary remains consistent.

Mobile Carrier Network is alternatively known as variations of cellular data network mobile service provider etc. It is connected to Internet . In a preferred embodiment all entities are connected to each other directly or indirectly through Internet .

Core logic processing may occur in Internal Data Service . Thus all other entities are linked to it directly or indirectly.

During operations outside of functioning within the disclosed system Social Media Clients and Social Media Service s interact to accumulate data on the latter. Examples include interactions such as users posting messages to Facebook or Twitter or checking in a location to Foursquare. Interactions of this type are independent of but a prerequisite for Internal Data Service to make data available to process. Additionally certain Remote Service s also poll gather and process data from Social Media Service s which Internal Data Service may then have available for refinement of its own data processing.

The following protocols may be used for entities to communicate with each over through Internet . In the application layer HTTP or HTTPS is used bi directionally between Data Service Clients and Internal Data Service . In addition to HTTP HTTPS other protocols such as RPC and SSH for communications between Social Media Service s Remote Service s and Internal Data Service are supported depending on requirements of the former two Internal Data Service is adaptive . TCP IP is used as the transport and internet layers. Whichever link layer and ports used by the Internal Data Service are such that connection preferably secure to Internet is possible.

The Internal Data Service may be hosted on one or more Internet connected servers comprised of a processor memory input output capabilities operating system database and server software. Data Service Client is comprised of a processor memory input output capabilities operating system and a web browser. Details of Social Media Service s Remote Service s and Clients are beyond scope of explanation except to the extent they have access to Internet by which sessions with Internal Data Service are possible.

The roles of how entities interact will become more apparent in methods of the present invention described herein.

Data in the form of digital content originating from social media services is collected and processed . Data type may be in various forms such as text photographs and other media. Processing converts raw data into data records which can be stored such as in a database and reference or link to other data records. The database is designed to accommodate raw data from various original formats. Data elements vary depending on the original source even for the same media type. If a relational database is used columns are designed to capture all relevant fields. If a document database is used fields can capture various data types. Data records may include the patron content time and identification of source social media service. It may also include other data in particular location if available. Patron data includes identification of a way to message back to the patron such as identification information to direct messages which may vary by social media service.

Imported data is then further processed to match the patron with a location if not already part of the imported data. This correlates locations with leads patrons who created or are associated with particular digital content referencing the location . Matching may be provided by the data source where location is already provided which is called explicit check in or it may be inferred which is called implicit check in. If explicit check in a location tag from data is read and location identified from the tag. If implicit check in processing occurs where information is extracted from source media. Information can be extracted by various means including natural language processing of text data image recognition and meta tags such as found in certain types of media.

Once patrons are associated with locations location administrators may choose to view patron lists by a process that selects for preference and relevancy . For example location administrators may elect to view patrons only from a certain geographical area. Location administrators may elect to view patrons based on quality likelihood of response which may separately be calculated by the system. The list may be limited by the system in multiple ways for example such that patrons may not be contacted if they have previously been contacted within a configured time window. Patrons also may elect to opt out of being contacted. Opt outs may be system wide from all messaging or location specific from messages from or about a specific location . This stage modifies which patrons are viewable and or which are enabled for messaging in a subsequent stage.

The system provides a user interface to manage patrons. Patrons may be displayed in a format that provides an overview with ability to drill down to details of any particular patron at will. Patrons displayed are particular to a chosen location. The interface then enables the next stage messaging.

The system provides an interface to message patrons. Once patron has been linked to an identifiable location a message may be created and sent to that patron based on contact information gathered during data collection.

The system may also track effectiveness of messages. For example patrons to whom a message was sent may be tracked using the same method of and and tabulated and analyzed for check ins or posts relevant to the sent message. A user interface is provided for such analytics.

Referring also to an embodiment of the general heuristics is as follows. External Data Service s is either Social Media Service s or Remote Service s or both. Line breaks identify separation of processes. The process may occur sequentially however they are not necessarily performed immediately successively in the same user session and as pre requisites are fulfilled may occur independently.

In the first stage . a back end process of Internal Data Service polls External Data Service s though an Application Programming Interface API provided by the external data service. In the example shown external data service is Social Media Services s . In stage . Internal Data Service receives requested content and in stage . aggregated the content into a database designed to accommodate disparate sources. Raw data includes at minimum social media content content author social media source and date.

In stage . social media content may be alternatively fetched from External Data Service s using a custom parser or scraper. The custom parser may be a computer implemented script which examines a web page of the External Data Service for certain keywords and HTML tags. In addition or as an alternative data may be received on a continual basis without explicit requests and parsed for content author and date information. This may be performed for example by using RSS.

Once raw data is imported from source using any of the above methods a second back end process matching . a social media content author to a location in particular to a merchant or brand may occur. If matched social media content author is recognized as a patron of the location and therefore a possible marketing lead. If data originated from a service that performs explicit check in this is location is included with the content and so Internal Data Service may assimilate the location based on a location identification scheme defined by the service. If the service does not include explicit check in Internal Data Service performs a number of tasks for implicit check ins.

Once check in is performed further refinement may be necessary particularly for implicit check ins to remove false positives as a third back end process. While the previous stage included verification this optional stage is performed using external services. Internal Data Service queries . Remote Service s with parameters about the patron. Remote Service s perform any requested verification or identification of additional information and returns . results.

Stages . to . may run continuously in the back end independent of the further processes. Once initially populated the result is a database of patrons ready to be utilized in the next set of stages.

The following is the process involved with displaying setting preferences and relevancy regarding display of patrons. Parameters include for example minimal intervals between allowing messages to a lead only for patrons whose social media content was publicly posted in a given time interval or only for those registered to a particular geographic area. Parameters may be set or system administrator configured such as in a database through an system administrator interface or within source code. The effect of parameters for preference and relevancy . is manifested in the User Interface UI for Data Service Client . Parameter effects may be evident wherein the patron may be displayed within the UI but actions such as messaging are disabled or may not be displayed at all according to business rules.

The following is the process involved with displaying patrons. A location administrator using Client may need to establish an account and log in according to business rules. Then a request . to obtain a user interface UI to query patrons for a particular location is submitted. A UI is returned .. If the location administrator has account rights for multiple locations the UI may include an input for location selection in particular a merchant or brand. In . Client makes a request to Internal Data Service by providing a location. If the location administrator has account rights to a single location that location may be provided by default without requiring any selection. Internal Data Service returns a user interface . populated with patrons corresponding to the requested location. Client may then select one or more patrons for additional details . which may be returned . by the Internal Data Service unless the data was already included when the UI was rendered in a previous stage.

The following is the process involved with messaging. A location administrator using Client requests a UI for messaging . by selecting one or more patrons previously displayed in process . or . and enabled for receiving messages. The UI for messaging composition . is displayed if already available on the Client or otherwise downloaded and displayed .. Alternatively a UI for messaging may be displayed in stage . and patrons may be selected in stage .. In either case a composed message is submitted to the Internal Data Service which forwards the request . to External Data Service s . Typically this will route the message to the same Social Media Service on which the original social media content was authored. Since the author was part of the data that was originally obtained External Data Service s can properly route the message and return an acknowledgement . to Internal Data Service which may then send indication . to Client that the message was sent.

The following is the process involved with analytics. Data Service Client requests a UI for analytics .. Internal Data Service gathers information pertinent to a selected location and or any locations pertinent to the location administrator using Client . Information displayed may include responses to previous messages number of check ins to location of interest during a time interval etc.

Referring also to B and C interrelated back end processes normally execute sequentially. At each process filtration of data occurs to improve its quality.

Method details how Internal Data Service obtains data from External Data Service s . Execution may be initiated on scheduled or continuing basis. The first step is to attempt authentication with an external data service. If not authenticated an error message is returned and execution stops before further actions to resolve the problem. If authenticated data can be queried and read through APIs provided by the external data service. A query is made for records on External Data Service s containing matching key words in any tags associated with any particular record. Key words are pre indexed location names in the database of Internal Data Service . Pre indexing is done to seed location names in the system. New locations such as locations identified through explicit check ins or based on implicit check ins which don t match known locations may be automatically added or flagged for system administrator review and added upon approval to the pre indexed location names list. Spelling variations are taken into account. A matching record undergoes analysis for check in which consists of matching a social media content author to a location. For all matching records data is stored and made available for further processing. Data records that are not matched may also be stored for additional processing such as location matching through association with other patrons or for future review. Any open session with the external data service is ended . Execution does not necessarily stop if there are more than one external data services. Periodically the cycle starts again if sessions are scheduled and not simultaneously continuous with all external data services.

Processing of check ins commences when data is matched . A data record is read from the database or otherwise accessed. A check in type is determined for the record. Certain Social Media Service s are known to supply check ins with location tags and thus known to be explicit check ins. If check in is explicit the location portion of the data record may be retrieved. Different schemes may be used by different social media services for explicit identification such as by name or by an identifying id number but the location portion may be cross referenced against any such scheme to identify the specific location. The processed location data may be stored in the database creating a reference between the patron and location at the date or time associated with the data record. Unless all records are processed another unprocessed record may be accessed and the same operation is performed. If check in is implicit the process is more involved. A check of data type is performed on the data record. Depending on the data type different processes may be applied. If the data record is text natural language processing is performed. For other media data types photographs video and audio in particular meta data processing is performed. Social Media Service s may supply metatags associated with the media data. Tags may contain text information upon which natural langue processing is applied as is the case with social media content that is natively text. The result then undergoes parsing whereupon location information is stored to the database. Once written further refinement may follow. A check is performed to determine if there are further records to be processed. If so another unprocessed record may be accessed and the process re iterated.

Further elaborating on the natural language processing of text a search is made for key words within the text. Processing includes Boolean logic for key words or phrases such as am at. am leaving going to having lunch at and similar statements which imply a patron s presence at a location current historical or future . Phases lacking certainty such as I wish I was at or I want to go to may be deemed not to be matches and thus ignored as implicit check ins. Key words and phrases may be pre indexed in a modifiable list by a system administrator. Text following such phrases or preceding based on the keyword or phrase may be treated as a location tag and extracted and may then be checked against known locations to identify if a location was specified. Identified variations in tag values may be filtered for spelling variations by use of a list of equivalent variations. For example if a location in the database of Internal Data Service is spelled Burgers and Shakes but location obtained from External Data Service s is hamburgers n shakes the latter may be considered a match based on equivalent variations. Locations may be configured to have required words or words which may not vary. For example the hamburgers n shakes data record would not match Burgers and Shakes Museum if Museum was marked as required or no variations allowed. The rules to accept or reject variations may be configured at a location level by location administrators or at a system level by system administrators.

If a location is not directly identifiable the location may still be identifiable through other associations. For example the data record may be a post from patron A on a social media service stating Going out with Michael. Social mapping may not possible directly within any single social media service nor directly through A s postings. But by parsing natural language identifying patrons such as Michael with accounts and check ins across many social media services and correlating time information location of A may be determinable by cross referencing shared presence with other patrons who have their own location identified. If a correlating patron referenced in the data record is found in the example case Michael with a known location within a time period relevant to the data record then that known location may be applied to the data record.

Further to analysis of media data types geotags latitude and longitude but not specifically the location to which they apply may be utilized to determine a location. In many cases photographs taken with devices that have an integrated GPS will contain this extractable information. Geolocation may be supplied by the social media service to which for example photographs with geotag information are uploaded. External Data Service s may return geotags of a photograph. Internal Data Service may parse such geotags and extract available information to aid in matching by cross referencing the information to locations in its database. If a patron is associated with the picture such as the taker of the picture or identified as being a subject within the picture the data record associated with geotagged media may associate a patron with a location. Similar to geotags photos often include further metadata such as a date or timestamp the picture was taken. Such date or time information may similarly be extracted and associated with the data record.

Execution of additional filtration to improve matching may be initiated when a check in is processed and stored to the database. A first step is to attempt authentication with Remote Service s If not authenticated an error message is returned and filtration stops to allow further actions to resolve the problem. If authenticated Remote Service s is queried . The query sent includes identification of a Social Media Client and information about the check in. The query may also contain the nature of information sought such as user habits in an attempt to remove false positives by estimating probability of a match. Data is returned and stored locally in the database.

Referring also to a user interface displays details of patrons. User interface may be rendered as a web page or within an application and is used by a location administrator operating Data Services Client consisting of three main sections location selection and user account information list of patrons and messaging panel.

Location selection a selection control such as a drop down list permits location administration of more than one location. As an additional option which may be enabled disabled on a system or location level location administrators may be enabled to select related or competing locations. For example location administrators for a brand may be enabled to select a competing brand and thereby access lists of patrons of the competing brand. Credits refer to the number of messages that may be sent by the current location administrator. Credits for sending messages may be replenished daily dynamically updated and depend on preferences and relevancy. Credits may be configured at a system level applied to location administrator accounts and vary based on business rules. For example all locations may get the same number of daily credits. Alternatively or additionally credits may be configured as a premium option with levels of subscription or purchase affecting how many credits are available. Alternatively or additionally locations may get daily credits based on the number of patrons associated with each location. Alternatively or additionally locations may see daily credit amounts increased or decreased based on response percentage to messages sent or based on opt out percentage of patrons receiving messages. The login name of the location administrator may be displayed to provide account control such as viewing account information or logging out.

The patron display includes a statistical overview of patrons for the location within a specified time period. Time periods may be specific hours days weeks months years forever or specified ranges or such periods. This section may include elements such as a date or time period selection control which upon selection updates the displayed patrons and number of patrons statistical information such as the total number of patrons and a set of icons indicating contributing social media sources for the identified patrons within the specified time period. An individual patron display may show individual patrons who checked in at least once at the location within the specified time period. The display may be in various forms such as an text list or public avatars accessible through the social media service from which a patron check in originated. Patrons may be ordered by name date of check in social media source geolocation of the patron etc. When patrons are selected or highlighted such as upon mouse over mouse hover or mouse click details may be shown of the selected patron. Details may include a public profile gathered from social media services number of times checked in to the current location number of times messaged to marketing campaigns and any resulting responses influence held by the patron in the social media as a score or rating by number of followers and or otherwise scored from Remote Service s and recent public social media messages.

A messaging area may be included to compose messages and links or control may be included to access analytics.

Referring also to a message composed and sent through interface may be received and viewed on data services client . In response to check ins the location administrator may select patrons within the user interface for messaging. Selected patrons may be displayed in list or other grouped display. In relation to preferences relevancy the number of patrons may be limited or selection of certain patrons may be transiently disabled such as for patrons who have opted out from receiving messages or already reached system wide messaging limits. In a message panel the location administrator may select from a set of generic stock messages a set of customized stock messages a user altered stock response or manually input a message. Messaging may include both a short message and longer details both of which may be edited. A preview may displayed or sent to a data services client of the location administrator. Sending a preview to a data services client may be preferable to viewing the message in the built in preview mode as for example the location administrator may wish to see a device specific output. Control is provided to send the message to selected patron list.

Upon sending to the list of selected patrons a process as described in stages . to . is invoked. In a preferred embodiment a short message is sent to selected each patrons public messaging system on a Social Media Service associated with the patron s relevant check in. The short message may contain a link to a web page containing the longer details. The web page may be hosted or mediated by Internal Data Service .

There may be a number of sections displayed along with the displayed message. As rendered on social media client the patron s latest public message s about the location may be displayed along with the short message. If applicable an electronic coupon may be displayed applicability depending on the stock message type selected or if a coupon was added during the message creation. Longer details may also be displayed . Additional standard or default information such as disclaimers privacy policy and controls to opt out of further receiving messages may also be included.

Referring also to an interface may be provided . for analytics. User interface may be rendered as a web page or within an application and used by a location administrator. One possible access point to the analytics display is through control in the UI for displaying patrons. Analytics UI may comprise repeating sections for each message that was sent for location . Each message section may display statistics for number of messages sent to and viewed by patrons a copy of the message sent a list or other display of patrons who reacted favorably to the message such as by redeeming a coupon distributed with the message and a list or other display of patrons who opted out of future messages in response to receiving the message. As in patron UI details of individual patrons may displayed when selected or highlighted such as upon mouse over mouse hover or mouse click.

In an alternative embodiment user interfaces may be provided by a dedicated application for a specific operating system or device such as smartphones.

It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

