---

title: Adjustable head rest
abstract: Described are passenger seats having a seat back support and a head rest assembly coupled to the seat back support. The head rest assembly includes a head support and a lower head support with a rest bar and a pair of extensions, wherein a first end of each extension is slidingly coupled to the rest bar and a second end of each extension is pivotally coupled to the head support. The rest bar is positioned adjacent the head support when the lower head support is in a stowed position and is positioned a distance forward of the head support when the lower head support is in a deployed position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08911020&OS=08911020&RS=08911020
owner: Zodiac Seats US LLC
number: 08911020
owner_city: Gainesville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
This application is related to and claims priority benefits from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 516 106 filed on Mar. 28 2011 entitled HEADREST DEVELOPMENT U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 516 085 filed on Mar. 28 2011 entitled HEADREST WITH ADJUSTABLE NECK SUPPORT FEATURE and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 486 932 filed on May 17 2011 entitled HEADREST WITH ADJUSTABLE NECK SUPPORT FEATURE. The 106 085 and 932 applications are hereby incorporated in their entireties by this reference.

The field of the invention relates to passenger seats. More specifically it relates to passenger seats with adjustable head support for the passenger.

In various modes of transportation a passenger may be subjected to a passenger seat for various lengths of time. In airline travel for example it is not uncommon for a passenger to be seated in a passenger seat for multiple hours. During such time it is beneficial to the passenger s overall comfort if the passenger s head is properly supported.

Traditional passenger seats with fixed orientation positions cannot be adequately adjusted to provide each passenger with the head support or comfort level that he or she requires. As a result passengers typically bring personal items such as pillows and blankets on board to achieve such support. These items may be quite cumbersome however and typically intrude into the personal space of another passenger.

In some cases a lower head support may be integrated into the head rest through shaping of the head rest cushion but there is typically no adjustment available. For example as shown in a head rest with an integrated and non adjustable lower head support intrudes into a longer passenger s shoulders and or upper back which causes the passenger to assume an uncomfortable posture. Thus the traditional design of these lower head supports may create uncomfortable seating for longer passengers and may prevent the head rest from being capable of stowing flat during taxi take off and landing.

Thus it may be desirable to provide a head rest assembly that includes a lower head support feature that is adjustable to accommodate passengers of differing lengths as well as providing stowage capabilities for taxi take off and landing.

Embodiments of the present invention include a passenger seat comprising a seat back support and a head rest assembly coupled to the seat back support. In certain embodiments the head rest assembly may be slidingly coupled to the seat back support via at least one track.

In some embodiments the head rest assembly comprises a head support and a lower head support comprising a rest bar and a pair of extensions wherein a first end of each extension is slidingly coupled to the rest bar and a second end of each extension is pivotally coupled to the head support. The rest bar may be positioned adjacent the head support when the lower head support is in a stowed position and may be positioned a distance forward of the head support when the lower head support is in a deployed position.

In certain embodiments the head support includes a head rest pan and a pair of side supports pivotally coupled to the head rest pan via a pair of hinges. In some embodiments the second end of each extension may be pivotally coupled to one of the pair of side supports via a pair of hinges. In other embodiments the head support may also include a pair of deployment arms pivotally coupled to the head rest pan via a pair of hinges wherein the second end of each extension may be pivotally coupled to one of the pair of deployment arms via a pair of hinges. In these embodiments the pair of side supports and the pair of deployment arms may be configured to rotate between a stowed position and a deployed position independently of the other pair.

A track may be coupled to the rest bar wherein the first end of each extension is positioned adjacent each end of the track when the lower head support is in the stowed position and wherein the first end of each extension is positioned proximate a midpoint of the track when the lower head support is in the deployed position.

In certain embodiments the position of the lower head support is adjustable relative to the head support. For example a central portion of the lower head support may be integrally coupled to the head support and a pair of bendable sides are coupled to the central portion wherein the pair of bendable sides are positioned approximately planar with the central portion when the lower head support is in a stowed position and wherein the pair of bendable sides are positioned forward of the central portion when the lower head support is in a deployed position. In other embodiments the lower head support is slidingly coupled to the head support via at least one track or a pocket within the head support. The lower head support which is rotatably coupled to the head support may include a projection that is configured so as to not extend in a forward direction when the lower head support is in a stowed position and to be oriented in the forward direction when the lower head support is in a deployed position.

Embodiments of the invention provide passenger seats with an adjustable support structure for various parts of a passenger s head. While the passenger seats are generally discussed for use with aircrafts they are by no means so limited. Rather embodiments of the passenger seats may be used in connection with any mode of transportation or otherwise as desired.

FIGS. and illustrate various embodiments of a passenger seat . In these embodiments the passenger seat may comprise a seat back support and a head rest assembly wherein the head rest assembly comprises a head support and a forward and or aft adjustable lower head support . This forward aft adjustment allows passengers to adjust the lower head support to accommodate a comfortable resting position for each passenger s unique neutral head posture. While the lower head support are generally discussed as providing support for a lower portion of a passenger s head they are by no means so limited. Rather embodiments of the lower head support may be used to support a passenger s neck or other regions of the head or otherwise as desired.

In some embodiments as best illustrated in and the head support may comprise a head rest pan wherein a pair of side supports may be coupled to the head rest pan . The head rest pan and or the side supports may be formed of aluminum stainless steel other metallic materials composite materials or other similar materials that provides sufficient strength to support a passenger s head and to withstand passenger handling and abuse. In some embodiments the head rest pan and or side supports may include a design having multiple apertures throughout the surface to reduce the amount of weight created by the head rest pan . In certain embodiments a dress cover is included that is configured to enclose the head support the side supports and or the lower head support for aesthetic and or safety reasons. In the aft portions of these components is not enclosed with a dress cover so that the components of the head support the side supports and or the lower head support may be illustrated.

As shown in and each side support may be coupled to the head rest pan via a hinge or other adjustable mechanism. One of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that the side supports may be coupled to the head rest pan via any suitable mechanism that allows a passenger to adjust the amount of support available on either side of the passenger s head by rotating either or both of the side supports forward where the additional support is desired wherein the mechanism is also configured to maintain each side support in a given position until a further adjustment is made.

For example the hinge may be a friction hinge which relies on a constant friction force within the hinge to hold its position throughout a full range of motion. In these embodiments the hinge may be mounted with a substantially vertical axis of rotation. However one of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that any suitable axis of rotation may be used that provides the desired operation of the hinges including but not limited to slide angles. Suitable torque ranges for the hinge may be 1 in lb to 3 in lb. However one of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that any suitable torque range may be used that provides sufficient torque to overcome the torque generated by all the forces acting on the head rest assembly so that the hinge may hold the side supports in position with no external load while still allowing a suitable range of external force to be applied to overcome the hinge torque and move the side supports into another position within their range of motion.

In other embodiments the hinge may be a variable friction hinge or a bi directional friction hinge a detent hinge which provides for repeatable soft stops in one or more positions over the entire range of motion a standard hinge that is combined with a positioning lock that is engaged when the side supports reach the desired location or any other suitable hinge design.

In certain embodiments as best illustrated in and the lower head support comprises a rest bar and a pair of extensions . The rest bar and or the extensions may be formed of aluminum stainless steel other metallic materials composite materials or other similar materials that provides sufficient strength to support a passenger s head and to withstand passenger handling and abuse. A first end of each extension is slidingly coupled to the rest bar via a track .

In certain embodiments as shown in a second end of each extension is pivotally coupled to one of the side supports . In other embodiments as shown in the second end of each extension is pivotally coupled to one of a pair of deployment arms . In these various embodiments the deployment arms may be pivotally coupled to the head rest pan via the hinges as described above with respect to the coupling between the side supports and the head rest pan .

In certain embodiments as shown in and a cushion may be coupled to the head support and the lower head support . The covering of the cushion may be formed of any suitable material including but not limited to textiles woven or nonwoven fabrics leather synthetic materials plastics or other similar materials. The cushion may have any suitable thickness that provides the desired comfort and support for a passenger s head while also minimizing the amount of protrusion into a passenger s shoulders and or upper back when the head rest assembly is stowed. The internal composition of the cushion may include any suitable material that provides a comfortable resting location for a passenger s head while providing a durable material that will withstand repeated usage. The type of internal cushion material includes but is not limited to viscoelastic materials foam materials honeycomb shaped materials cushioning materials or other similar materials. The cushion may coupled to the head support and or the lower head support via any suitable mechanical or chemical fasteners including but not limited to a releasable fastening mechanism such as hook and loop fasteners that may allow the cushion to be replaced without the need to remove the head rest assembly or a permanent fastening mechanism such as glue or other similar attachment means.

In certain embodiments a flexible plate or sheet may be positioned between the cushion and the head support and or the lower head support . This plate may be formed of plastics composites or other flexible materials capable of withstanding application of repetitive bending forces. In some embodiments the plate may be substantially similar in shape to the head rest pan . The plate is configured to distribute the compressive force generated by the forward movement of the lower head support over the surface of the cushion .

In some embodiments as shown in and the lower head support is in a stowed position when the side supports are in a stowed position i.e. the side supports are rotated aft until the side supports are substantially aligned with the head rest pan . When the lower head support is in the stowed position the first end of each extension is located adjacent each end of the track so that the length of the lower head support is maximized to accommodate the stowed position of the side supports and the rest bar is positioned adjacent the head rest pan .

As each side support is rotated forward as best illustrated in the distance between the side supports is shortened which in turn causes the first end of one or both extension to slide along the track toward a midpoint of the track . The forward rotation of the side supports also moves the entire lower head support forward in the direction of a passenger s head. As a result the forward movement of the lower head support deforms a portion of the cushion located between the lower head support and the passenger s lower head so that the passenger s lower head is more firmly supported. The lower head support may be adjusted to provide any suitable amount of support by adjusting the amount of forward rotation of one or both side supports as shown in FIGS. and . The length of the rest bar the track and the extensions are configured to adjust to the differences in distance between the stowed and fully deployed positions of the side supports .

As shown in and the lower head support is in a fully deployed position when the side supports are in a fully deployed position i.e. the side supports are rotated forward until the hinge reaches its maximum rotation and or until the extensions contact one another adjacent the midpoint . When the lower head support is in the fully deployed position the first end of each extension may be located near or adjacent the midpoint of the track so that the length of the lower head support is contracted to accommodate the fully deployed position of the side supports and the rest bar is positioned a distance forward of the head rest pan .

In some embodiments as shown in the lower head support operation may be separated from the operation of the side supports . Thus in these embodiments a passenger has the option of adjusting the amount and location of support for the sides of the head via the side supports separately from the amount and location of support for the lower head via the deployment arms .

As shown in FIGS. and the lower head support is in a stowed position when the deployment arms are in a stowed position i.e. the deployment arms are rotated aft until the deployment arms are substantially aligned with the head rest pan . When the lower head support is in a stowed position the first end of each extension is located adjacent each end of the track so that the entire length of the lower head support is maximized to accommodate the stowed position of the deployment arms and the rest bar is positioned adjacent the head rest pan .

As each deployment arm is rotated forward the distance between the deployment arms is shortened which in turn causes the first end of one or both extensions to slide along the track toward a midpoint of the track . The forward rotation of the deployment arms also moves the entire lower head support forward toward a passenger s head. As a result the forward movement of the lower head support deforms a portion of the cushion located between the lower head support and the passenger s head so that the passenger s lower head is more firmly supported. The lower head support may be adjusted to provide any suitable amount of support by adjusting the amount of forward rotation of one or both deployment arms as shown in . The length of the rest bar the track and the extensions are configured to adjust to the differences in distance between the stowed and fully deployed positions of the deployment arms .

As shown in and the lower head support is in a fully deployed position when the deployment arms are in a fully deployed position i.e. the deployment arms are rotated forward until the hinge reaches its maximum rotation and or until the extensions contact one another adjacent the midpoint . When the lower head support is in the fully deployed position the first end of each extension may be located near or adjacent the midpoint of the track so that the entire length of the lower head support is contracted to accommodate the fully deployed position of the deployment arms and the rest bar is positioned a distance forward of the head rest pan .

As a result as shown in the side supports may have any suitable position ranging from stowed to fully deployed regardless of the position of the lower head support and the lower head support may have any suitable position ranging from stowed to fully deployed regardless of the position of the side supports .

As illustrated in and the head rest assembly may be coupled to the seat back support via any suitable mechanism. For example in certain embodiments at least one projection may be positioned on an aft side of the head rest pan . At least one corresponding track may be positioned on a forward side of the seat back support . The projection may be slidingly coupled to the track which may allow the head rest assembly to vertically travel along the track as desired to adjust the vertical position of the head rest assembly . For example as shown in and the head rest assembly may be positioned in a stowed position adjacent a lower end of the track . As shown in and the head rest assembly may be positioned in a fully deployed position adjacent an upper end of the track .

In certain embodiments as shown in at least a central portion of the lower head support may be integrally coupled to the head support . In at least some of these embodiments the head rest assembly may be slidingly coupled to the seat back support as described above. As a result the location of the lower head support may be adjusted to accommodate passengers of different heights so that the lower head support does not protrude into a passenger s shoulders and or upper back and or to achieve a desired location to support the passenger s head.

In some embodiments as shown in the lower head support may further comprise a pair of bendable sides that are not integrally coupled to the head support . In a stowed position as shown in the bendable sides are positioned approximately planar with a central portion of the lower head support . In a fully deployed position as illustrated in and one or both bendable sides may be bent into a deployed position that substantially conforms to at least a portion of a side of a passenger s lower head. As a result in addition to adjusting the vertical position of the head rest assembly the bendable sides may be returned to the stowed position to accommodate passengers of different heights so that the lower head support does not protrude into a passenger s shoulders and or upper back and or to achieve a desired location to support the passenger s head.

In yet other embodiments as shown in at least one track may be positioned on a forward side of the head support . The lower head support may be slidingly coupled to the track which may allow the lower head support to travel along the track as desired to adjust the position of the lower head support . In at least some of these embodiments the head rest assembly may be slidingly coupled to the seat back support as described above. The lower head support may have any suitable shape that provides a desired amount of comfort and support for a passenger s lower head while also providing a shape that may accommodate a broad range of passenger dimensions. For example as shown in the lower head support has a substantially parabolic profile with a substantially uniform shape along its length. The lower head support may also have a more angular profile as shown in . In certain embodiments as shown in the lower head support may also taper down toward the center so as to form a shape that may complement the shape of a passenger s head.

In some embodiments as best illustrated in the lower head support may be sandwiched between the head support and the seat back support so that the lower head support may be able to vertically travel within a pocket formed between the head support and the seat back support . As a result the location of the lower head support may be adjusted to accommodate passengers of different heights so that the lower head support does not protrude into a passenger s shoulders and or upper back and or to achieve a desired location to support the passenger s head.

In other embodiments as shown in the lower head support may be positioned within the head support . In these embodiments the lower head support may be rotatably coupled at each end to the head support so that an adjustment knob protrudes from one or both sides of the head rest assembly . The lower head support comprises a projection along its length. The lower head support is in a stowed position when the lower head support is rotated in an aft direction until the projection does not extend in a forward direction as shown in .

As the adjustment knob is rotated forward the projection also rotates forward and deforms a portion of the cushion located between the lower head support and the passenger s lower head so that the passenger s lower head is more firmly supported. The lower head support may be adjusted to provide any suitable amount of support by rotating the lower head support forward until the projection is oriented in a forward direction at which point the lower head support is in a fully deployed position as shown in . In certain embodiments as shown in the rotating lower head support may be combined with the side supports . In these embodiments the side supports are independently operated as described above to provide side support to a passenger s head.

In other embodiments as shown in the lower head support may be pivotally coupled to a lower edge of the head support . In these embodiments the lower head support is rotated downward into a stowed position and flipped upward and forward into a deployed position. In these embodiments the head rest assembly may be slidingly coupled to the seat back support as described above. As a result the location of the lower head support may be adjusted to accommodate passengers of different heights so that the lower head support contacts a passenger s lower head when deployed and or to achieve a desired location to support the passenger s head.

The foregoing is provided for purposes of illustrating explaining and describing embodiments of the present invention. Further modifications and adaptations to these embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art and may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

