---

title: System and methodology for providing shirt collar support
abstract: Aspects for supporting a turndown shirt collar are disclosed. In a particular aspect, a semi-rigid shapeable device includes a rear region that forms a substantially semi-circle shape having a first and second end. For this particular embodiment, each of a first terminal end and a second terminal end are respectively oriented upwards and inwards relative to the rear region via a first bend at the first end and a second bend at the second end. In another aspect, a method that facilitates forming a shirt collar support is provided, which includes shaping a semi-rigid shapeable device into a substantially semi-circle shape. In a further aspect, a turndown collared shirt is provided, which includes a collar band comprising at least one collar sleeve configured to hold a shaping device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307791&OS=09307791&RS=09307791
owner: 
number: 09307791
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120414
---
The subject disclosure generally relates to turndown collared shirts and more specifically to a system and methodology for providing shirt collar support.

By way of background concerning conventional turndown collared shirts it is noted that such shirts often undesirably lose collar support. For instance a turndown collared shirt that remains on a store shelf may quickly lose collar support over time. Indeed in order to mitigate a loss of such support manufacturers often package their shirts together with a plastic cardboard insert wrapped around the collar band. This solution however is limited to preserving collar support prior to purchase since such inserts are not wearable. Moreover since these inserts are not wearable they are often discarded soon after a shirt is purchased. As a result these shirts quickly lose collar support over time and after repeated use.

To regain collar support after use shirts may be pressed by professional dry cleaners. Such solution can be expensive though and the stiffness of a recently pressed collar can quickly wear off during use. For example even a recently pressed shirt collar may undesirably lose its shape and lay flat towards the end of a work day because of normal everyday movement and as perspiration accumulates.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a device and methodology which overcomes these limitations. To this end it should be noted that the above described deficiencies are merely intended to provide an overview of some problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure various non limiting aspects are described in connection with supporting a turndown shirt collar. In one such aspect a semi rigid shapeable device is disclosed which includes a rear region configured to form a substantially semi circle shape having a first end and a second end. The semi rigid shapeable device also comprises an ends region which includes a first portion extending from the first end to a first terminal end and a second portion extending from the second end to a second terminal end. For this particular embodiment the first portion forms a first bend at the first end to orient the first terminal end upwards and inwards relative to the rear region whereas the second portion forms a second bend at the second end to orient the second terminal end upwards and inwards relative to the rear region.

In another aspect a method that facilitates forming a shirt collar support is provided. The method includes shaping a semi rigid shapeable device into a substantially semi circular shape having a first terminal end and a second terminal end. The method further includes bending opposite ends of the semi rigid shapeable device to form a first bend proximate to the first terminal end and a second bend proximate to the second terminal end. For this embodiment the first bend is configured to orient the first terminal end upwards and inwards relative to a rear region of the semi rigid shapeable device whereas the second bend is configured to orient the second terminal end upwards and inwards relative to the rear region of the semi rigid shapeable device.

In a further aspect a turndown collared shirt is provided which includes a collar band attached to a folded collar. Within such embodiment the collar band includes at least one collar sleeve configured to hold a shaping device whereas the folded collar includes a first collar point and a second collar point such that a spread length between the first collar point and the second collar point varies according to a presence of the shaping device within the at least one collar sleeve.

Other embodiments and various non limiting examples scenarios and implementations are described in more detail below.

As discussed in the background turndown collared shirts often undesirably lose collar support. The various embodiments disclosed herein are directed towards overcoming these limitations via discrete and continuous collar support. For instance embodiments directed towards a wearable shirt collar shaping device are disclosed as well as embodiments encompassing methodologies to facilitate forming such devices. Embodiments directed towards a turndown collared shirt configured to be coupled with a shaping device are also disclosed.

Turning now to an exemplary turndown collared shirt without a collar support apparatus is shown. As illustrated turndown collared shirt includes collar point and collar point wherein spread is defined as the distance between collar point and collar point . To this end it should be noted that spread undesirably increases as turndown collared shirt loses collar support. Moreover as turndown collared shirt loses collar support each of collar point and collar point undesirably lay more flat.

To overcome this limitation a wearable shaping device is contemplated. In an exemplary configuration of such shaping device is shown coupled to a turndown collared shirt in accordance with an embodiment. As illustrated shaping device is configured to wrap around collar band of turndown collared shirt . Once wrapped around collar band shaping device provides discrete and continuous collar support to turndown collared shirt . In an exemplary illustration of such support is provided. As illustrated shaping device discretely tucks beneath turndown collar of turndown collared shirt such that shaping device is unnoticeable during use. Indeed in an aspect shaping device is thus a wearable apparatus configured to continuously provide an invisible collar support which prevents collar point and collar point from spreading beyond spread . In comparison it is noted that spread maintained by shaping device is desirably shorter than spread illustrated in which does not include such shaping device.

Referring next to various views and of an exemplary collar support apparatus are provided. Here it should be appreciated that contemplated embodiments include but are not limited to a semi rigid shapeable device configured to firmly maintain its shape. In a first view such apparatus is shown to include rear region and ends region wherein rear region is configured to form a substantially semi circle shape having a first end and a second end and wherein ends region includes a first portion extending from the first end to first terminal end and a second portion extending from the second end to second terminal end . For this particular embodiment the first portion of ends region forms a first one of front bends at the first end to orient first terminal end upwards and inwards relative to rear region whereas the second portion of ends region forms a second one of front bends at the second end to orient second terminal end upwards and inwards relative to rear region .

In another aspect it should be noted that rear region may be configured to include a squared edge opposite to an open region of the substantially semi circle shape. Such a squared edge may be included to facilitate shaping the rear portion of a turndown collar to appear newly pressed while worn. Rear bend may also be included so as to provide comfort near the back of a user s neck. Within such embodiment rear bend is included at a midpoint of the squared edge and configured to orient the midpoint upwards relative to opposite halves of the squared edge.

Additional bends are also contemplated. For instance intermediate bends may be included to raise first terminal end and second terminal end so as to facilitate tucking them more discreetly beneath a turndown collar. For this particular embodiment rear region includes a first side portion extending between the squared edge and the first end wherein the first side portion includes a first one of intermediate bends at a first intermediate point and wherein the first one of intermediate bends is configured to orient the first intermediate point downwards relative to opposite sides of the first side portion. Similarly on the opposite side rear region includes a second side portion extending between the squared edge and the second end wherein the second side portion includes a second one of intermediate bends at a second intermediate point and wherein the second one of intermediate bends is configured to orient the second intermediate point downwards relative to opposite sides of the second side portion.

In another aspect it is noted that it may be desirable to prevent the shaping device from slipping while in use. Accordingly it is contemplated that a portion of at least one of rear region or ends region further comprises a non slip coating. Since it is anticipated that the disclosed shaping device will be used with conventional turndown collar shirts such non slip coating can be any of a plurality of materials that when in contact with the collar band of a turndown collar shirt creates a coefficient of friction above a slippage threshold e.g. rubber velvet etc .

Other desirable features may also be included. For instance in order to accommodate collars of different sizes it may be desirable to include at least one extension point configured to elongate at least one of rear region or ends region . In an exemplary extendable collar support apparatus with such extension point is provided. As illustrated shaping device may include extension mechanism proximate to rear bend . For this particular example although an accordion like mechanism is shown it should be appreciated that extension mechanism can be any of a plurality of mechanisms known in the art. Furthermore although shows extension mechanism inserted into rear bend it should be appreciated that extension mechanism may be inserted into any of front bends corner bends intermediate bends and or rear bend . Alternatively or in addition to it is contemplated that extension points may be included in non bend points as well.

In another aspect it is contemplated that including an attachment mechanism to ends of the disclosed shaping device may also be desirable. For instance as illustrated in a first terminal end of shaping device may include a first end of attachment mechanism whereas a second terminal end of shaping device may include a second end of attachment mechanism . In a first exemplary embodiment of attachment mechanism each of the first end of attachment mechanism and the second end of attachment mechanism are configured to be attachable to one another e.g. to facilitate having shaping device maintain regain its shape . In another exemplary embodiment however each of the first end of attachment mechanism and the second end of attachment mechanism are configured to be attachable to a collar stay e.g. as illustrated in . Furthermore although attachment mechanism is shown to be a hook mechanism it should be appreciated that any of a plurality of mechanisms can be implemented including for example a magnetic mechanism.

Embodiments directed towards a turndown collared shirt configured to be used in conjunction with the disclosed shaping device are also contemplated. In for instance views and of an exemplary turndown collared shirt are provided according to an embodiment. As illustrated a turndown collared shirt is provided which includes collar band attached to folded collar . Within such embodiment collar band includes at least one collar sleeve configured to hold shaping device as shown. In an aspect collar sleeve is thus a compartment within collar band that facilitates guiding shaping device into place. Furthermore it is noted that folded collar includes a first collar point and a second collar point such that a spread length between the first collar point and the second collar point varies according to a presence of shaping device within collar sleeve .

It should be appreciated that collar band may be configured to hold shaping device in various ways. For instance in a first embodiment collar band includes insert wherein a first insert point is configured to receive a first end of shaping device at a first one of collar sleeve and wherein collar band further includes a second insert point configured to receive a second end of shaping device at a second one of collar sleeve . Within such embodiment collar sleeve thus includes two sleeves on opposite ends of collar band so as to facilitate receiving and removing shaping device via insert as shown. In another embodiment however rather than including insert shaping device is entirely enclosed within a single collar sleeve .

Furthermore as stated previously it may be desirable to prevent shaping device from slipping while in use. Accordingly it is contemplated that an inner portion of collar sleeve may comprise a non slip lining. Such non slip lining can be any of a plurality of materials that when in contact with shaping device creates a coefficient of friction above a slippage threshold e.g. rubber velvet etc .

As also stated previously it may be desirable to have shaping device attach to collar stays. Accordingly embodiments configured to facilitate such attachment are disclosed such as the exemplary turndown collared shirt provided in . As illustrated turndown collared shirt may be configured to receive shaping device via inserts . Alternatively rather than including inserts turndown collared shirt may be configured to include shaping device within a single collar sleeve as mentioned previously. Within either embodiment turndown collared shirt may further include collar stay sleeves as shown wherein a first one of collar stay sleeves is proximate to a first collar point and wherein a second one of collar stay sleeves is proximate to a second collar point. To facilitate providing shaping device access to collar stays a first one end of collar band sleeve s includes a first one of collar stay access points configured to provide access to a first area proximate to a first one of collar stay sleeves whereas a second one end of collar band sleeve s includes a second one of collar stay access points configured to provide access to a second area proximate to a second one of collar stay sleeves .

It should be appreciated that any of a plurality of attachment mechanisms are contemplated for attaching shaping device to collar stays . For instance as illustrated a hook mechanism may be implemented wherein shaping device includes shaping device attachment mechanism which is configured to hook onto collar stay attachment mechanism . Alternatively rather than implementing a hook mechanism a magnetic mechanism can be used wherein either ends of shaping device attachment mechanism are configured to have a first magnetic polarity and wherein components of collar stay attachment mechanism are configured to have an opposite magnetic polarity.

Referring next to a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method that facilitates forming a shirt collar shaping device is provided. As illustrated process includes a series of acts that may be performed within a computer system according to an aspect of the subject specification. For instance process may be implemented by employing a processor to execute computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium to implement the series of acts. In another embodiment a computer readable storage medium comprising code for causing at least one computer to implement the acts of process is contemplated.

In an aspect process begins with the shaping of a wire shaped material at act . Here as stated previously it is contemplated that such material may be any of a plurality of material types which may be bent and or formed into a semi circular shape substantially similar to collar support apparatus . For instance in one embodiment a steel wire material may be bent into a substantially semi circular shape. In another embodiment however it is contemplated that a plastic material is molded into a substantially semi circular shape.

It should be noted that because any of various collar support preferences may be desired it is contemplated that the shaping performed at act may vary accordingly. For instance in a particular embodiment the shaping at act comprises forming a rear region that includes a squared edge opposite to an open region of the substantially semi circular shape. Alternatively rather than a squared edge the shaping at act may comprise forming a rear region with a rounded edge.

After the shaping performed at act process continues to act where bend points for the shirt collar shaping device are selected. To this end it is noted that any of a plurality of bend types may be selected including for example any of front bends corner bends intermediate bends and or rear bend illustrated in .

Once the bend types are selected process proceeds to act where the selected bend types are formed. In one embodiment for example a pair of front bends is formed by bending opposite ends of the wire shaped apparatus. Within such embodiment the first front bend is configured to orient a first end upwards and inwards relative to a rear region of the wire shaped apparatus whereas the second front bend is configured to orient the second end upwards and inwards relative to the rear region. Thereafter the bending may further comprise forming at least one additional bend.

Since any of various materials may be used it should be appreciated that the forming performed at act may encompass any of a plurality of forming acts. For instance if steel material is used such forming may comprise bending the wire shaped apparatus. However if plastic material is used bends may be formed by selecting a mold having the desired bends.

In another aspect the forming performed at act may further comprise including at least one extension mechanism. For instance such extension mechanism may be an accordion like mechanism such as extension mechanism illustrated in . Within such embodiment the forming performed at act may include partitioning the wire shaped apparatus at a desired extension point and inserting an extension mechanism therein. To this end although shows extension mechanism inserted into rear bend it should be appreciated that an extension mechanism may be inserted into any of front bends corner bends intermediate bends and or rear bend . Alternatively or in addition to it is contemplated that extension points may be included in non bend points as well.

After the forming performed at act process proceeds to act where a determination of whether to include an attachment mechanism such as attachment mechanism illustrated in is made. In an aspect such attachment mechanism may be configured to serve any of a plurality of purposes. For instance the attachment mechanism may be configured to attach detach opposing ends of the shirt collar shaping device and or to attach detach to collar stays e.g. as illustrated in . Here in addition to the hook design illustrated in and it should be appreciated that other attachment mechanism designs can be implemented including for example a magnetic attachment mechanism.

If it is determined that an attachment mechanism should indeed be included the desired attachment mechanism is formed at act followed by a determination of whether to coat the shirt collar shaping device with a non slip substance at act . Otherwise if an attachment mechanism is not desired process proceeds directly to act . If a coating is desired the shirt collar shaping device is coated at act followed by a packaging of the shirt collar shaping device at act . Otherwise if a coating is not desired process proceeds directly to act . Here it should be noted that the packaging performed at act may include packaging the shirt collar shaping device in any of various ways. For instance the shaping device can be packaged by itself together with a turndown collared shirt and or together with collar stays.

In another aspect rather than having a single shaping device wrap around the rear of a user s neck a dual device embodiment is also contemplated. In an exemplary implementation of such dual device embodiment is provided. For this particular embodiment shaping devices respectively include a first end configured to be inserted into collar band sleeve s via collar band access points and a second end configured to be inserted into collar stay sleeves . Here it is contemplated that each of shaping devices are semi rigid devices configured to keep their form over time similar to the aforementioned semi circular devices. During use shaping devices thus separately provide collar support to each collar point of turndown collar shirt .

It should be noted that alternative embodiments are also contemplated in which shaping devices are configured to attach to the single shaping device design described herein e.g. via attachment mechanism of shaping device . In yet another embodiment rather than implementing an attach detach design a modified single shaping device design is contemplated in which the ends of the aforementioned single shaping device design are extended modified to be substantially similar to shaping devices .

Referring next to a perspective view of an exemplary dual shaping device embodiment is provided. As illustrated similar to shaping devices shaping devices respectively include a first end configured to be inserted into a collar band sleeve and a second end configured to be inserted into a collar stay sleeve. In a particular aspect since it is contemplated that shaping devices are made of malleable semi rigid material pivot points may be included to facilitate pivoting the respective ends of shaping devices as desired. When inserting shaping devices for example a user may begin by inserting a first end into a collar band sleeve and then vertically extending the other end to facilitate inserting this other end into a collar stay sleeve. Indeed once a first end of shaping device is inserted into a collar band sleeve inserting the other end into the corresponding collar stay sleeve may be easier if the turndown collar is turned up. A user may then bend pivot point upwards so that the collar stay sleeve end extends vertically which facilitates inserting this end into the collar stay sleeve while the turndown collar is turned up. Once both ends of shaping device are inserted the user may then bend pivot point in the opposite direction so that turndown collar is turned back down. Here since it is contemplated that shaping device can be made of any malleable material configured to keep its form over time it should be noted that pivot point can be configured to facilitate raising lowering turndown collars into fixed positions as desired.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that various embodiments for implementing the use of a computing device and related embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that such embodiments can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Each computing object or device etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects or devices etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object or device etc. or etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API application programming interface or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of various embodiments.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the techniques as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects or devices etc. provide data services such as receiving data from computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate various embodiments and related techniques as described herein.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the user profiling can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the computing objects or devices etc. can be Web servers with which the computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. As mentioned computing objects or devices etc. may also serve as computing objects or devices etc. or vice versa as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned several of the aforementioned embodiments apply to any device wherein it may be desirable to utilize a computing device according to the aspects disclosed herein. It is understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments described herein. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the embodiments of the subject disclosure may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction.

Although not required any of the embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the operable component s . Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that network interactions may be practiced with a variety of computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing one or more embodiments herein can include a general purpose computing device in the form of a handheld computer . Components of handheld computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices and networks the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish build applications for or consume data in connection with the aspects described herein.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be appreciated with reference to the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation some of the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

While in some embodiments a client side perspective may be inferred it is to be understood for the avoidance of doubt that a corresponding server perspective exists or vice versa. Similarly where a method is practiced a corresponding device can be provided having storage and at least one processor configured to practice that method via one or more components.

While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating there from. Still further one or more aspects of the above described embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be affected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

