---

title: Systems and methods for delivering content to a mobile device based on geo-location
abstract: Described herein are a system and method for delivering content to a mobile computing device, where the content is selected for presentation to a member of a social network service based on the current geo-location of the member (device) and one or more associations and/or relationships between entities represented in a social graph of the social network service. A particular embodiment includes providing, by use of a data processor, a user interface to notify a member of a social network service of his or her proximity to another entity that is represented in the social graph of the social network service. In some embodiments, in response to determining that a member is in geographical proximity of a company that has a presence in the social graph of the social network service, a job recommendation/matching engine may cause information to be presented relating to a job listing posted to a job listing service by an authorized representative of the company.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009249&OS=09009249&RS=09009249
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09009249
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 487 filed on Nov. 29 2012 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This patent document pertains generally to tools systems apparatuses methodologies computer program products etc. for allowing electronic devices to share information with each other based in part on a geo location and more particularly but not by way of limitation to systems and methods for delivering content to mobile devices based at least in part on geo location.

Online or web based social network services provide their users with a mechanism for defining and memorializing in a digital format their relationships with other people. This digital representation of real world relationships is frequently referred to as a social graph. As these social network services have matured many of the services have expanded the concept of a social graph to enable users to establish or define relationships or associations with any number of entities and or objects in much the same way that users define relationships with other people. For instance with some social network services and or with some web based applications that leverage a social graph that is maintained by a third party social network service users can indicate a relationship or association with a variety of real world entities and or objects. For example users may take action to expressly indicate a favorable opinion of or an interest in different types of content e.g. web based articles blog postings books photographs videos audio recordings music and so forth . Typically a user s expression of opinion or interest is captured when a user interacts with a particular graphical user interface element such as a button which is generally presented in connection with content relating to the particular entity or object and is frequently labelled in some meaningful way e.g. like 1 follow .

In addition to hosting a vast amount of social graph data many social network services maintain a variety of personal information about their members. For instance with many social network services when a user registers to become a member the member is prompted to provide a variety of personal or biographical information which may be displayed in a member s personal web page. Such information is commonly referred to as personal profile information or simply profile information and when shown collectively it is commonly referred to as a member s profile. For instance with some of the many social network services in use today the personal information that is commonly requested and displayed as part of a member s profile includes a person s age birthdate gender interests contact information residential address home town and or state the name of the person s spouse and or family members and so forth. With certain social network services such as some business or professional network services a member s personal information may include information commonly included in a professional resume or curriculum vitae such as information about a person s education the company at which a person is employed an industry in which a person is employed a job title or function an employment history skills possessed by a person professional organizations of which a person is a member online communities or groups of which the person is a member and so on.

Because social network services maintain vast amounts of social graph and member profile data companies offering various products and services have naturally gravitated to these social network services with a view to advertising their products and services. Accordingly social network services offer a variety of ways for companies schools and other organizations to generate a presence within the social network service. For example many social network services provide companies with the ability to establish an official presence by generating one or more dedicated company web pages. Similar to how people provide information that makes up a member profile authorized representatives of a company can provide information to generate a company profile.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention content is communicated to a mobile computing device of a member of a social network service based on that member being physically proximate to a location e.g. headquarters campus store etc. of an organization e.g. a company school or other organization that is represented in a social graph of a social network service. With some embodiments the content that is communicated to members of the social network service may be selected or specified by an authorized representative of the organization on behalf of which the content is being communicated or published. Furthermore the authorized representative of the organization may specify various member targeting criteria such that certain content is only delivered to those members of the social network service who have member profile attributes satisfying the member targeting criteria. In order to receive such content the members of the social network service use an application residing and executing on a mobile computing device e.g. mobile phone or handset tablet computer personal digital assistant or any other similar device . With some embodiments the mobile application includes notification settings that allow the member to specify certain criteria to be satisfied prior to certain content being communicated to and or presented at the mobile computing device.

For example using a web based interface of a message or content publishing module a representative of a company ACME Products can select a type of content to be communicated to members of a social network service when a location aware content distribution module determines those members are near or within some specified geographical location. If the representative for ACME Products is a recruiter for example the recruiter may select or specify as the content to be communicated a particular job listing that has been posted to a job listing service hosted at the social network service or a third party service. In addition to selecting or specifying the particular content to be communicated the authorized representative of the company may select member targeting criteria such that only those members of the social network service having member profile attributes that satisfy the selected member targeting criteria will receive a communication including the specified content.

Continuing with the example of the ACME Products recruiter the recruiter may specify various member profile attributes as the member targeting criteria for the selected job listing that is to be communicated to members when those members are proximate to a particular campus building or other location where ACME Products resides. For instance if ACME Products is located in San Francisco Calif. and the job listing is for a software engineering position the recruiter may specify as member targeting criteria a geographical location at which a member resides e.g. the San Francisco Bay Area a field of study undertaken by a member e.g. computer science or computer engineering one or more skills possessed by a member e.g. Hadoop Java C a job seeking classification status of the member e.g. non job seeker passive job seeker or active job seeker and so forth. When the location aware content distribution module determines that a member having member profile attributes that satisfy the specified member targeting criteria is proximate a particular geographical location for example as determined by geographical location information received from the member s mobile computing device the location aware content distribution module will send the mobile computing device the specified content in this example the job listing for the software engineering position at ACME Products.

With some embodiments the mobile application via which the specified content is presented to the member has notification settings that can be manually adjusted by the member. In some instances the notification settings are adjustable on the basis of the content type e.g. job listings information relating to products and service being offered promotional offerings news articles etc. and or entity types e.g. companies schools non profit organizations government institutions and other organizations . For example with some embodiments the notification settings allow the member to specify certain criteria relating to a strength of association or connection that must exist between the member and the organization on behalf of which some specified content is being presented where the strength of association or connection is determined by analyzing one or more connection paths connecting the member with the particular entity in a social graph of the social network service. For example a member may desire to receive notifications and content only from certain organization to which the member has an association or connection that exceeds some threshold. In one example a connection strength threshold may be defined by how many employees of a particular organization are also direct connections of the member or are being followed by the member. Accordingly when a member is proximate to a particular location of a company and otherwise satisfies member targeting criteria specified by an authorized representative of the company the member may only be presented with a notification and associated content if the member is directly connected to a predetermined number of other members of the social network service who are also employees of the company. Various other metrics for determining a threshold strength of association and or connection between a member and another entity represented in the social graph of a social network service are described below. Other advantageous aspects of the present inventive subject matter will be apparent from the description of the figures that follows.

Once the geo location of the mobile computing device is obtained from the location service the mobile application communicates a message or request e.g. a content request over the network to a location aware content server module of the social network service . The message or request may include both a member identifier uniquely identifying the user of the mobile computing device as a member of the social network service and the current geo location of the mobile computing device . In some instances a process executing in the background of the mobile computing device may communicate the message or request periodically. Alternatively in some instances the request might be made in response to an explicit action of the user such as when the user performs an action to indicate his or her presence at a particular location frequently referred to as a check in. With some embodiments one or more notification settings of the mobile application may also be communicated from the mobile computing device to the social network service . Alternatively with some embodiments a member s notification settings for the mobile application may be configured and or stored at an application server such as might be provided by the social network service .

With the information received from the mobile computing device the location aware content server module will determine whether the mobile computing device is currently proximate to any organization e.g. company school or other organization that is represented in the social graph of the social network service. If the location aware content server module determines that the member is proximate with an organization the location aware content server module will then determine whether there is any active content to be communicated to the member. In some instances the operator of the social network service or an administrator or representative of a particular organization represented in the social graph of the social network service may specify that certain content is to be communicated to all members of the social network service or specific targeted members so long as any notification settings specified by the member are satisfied. Additionally with some embodiments when authoring or specifying content to be published the authorized representative of the organization may establish a duration of time during which the content will be available to be accessed by members of the social network service.

As illustrated in the social network service includes a content publishing module and a member targeting module which together enable an authorized representative of an organization to author or specify content to be published such that the content is associated with one or more geo locations. In addition the content can be associated with member targeting criteria. Consequently when the content is published the published content will be accessible only to those members of the social network service that have member profile attributes satisfying the specified member targeting criteria and only when those member s proximate to the specified location.

For example an authorized representative of a company may use the content publishing module of the social network service to publish a building or campus map along with information about where to park when visiting the building or campus where to register or check in information required for accessing certain resources such as a WiFi guest network or similar computer and network resources and so forth. Consequently when a member of the social network service arrives at a particular location a notification may appear on his or her mobile computing device to notify the member of the content available as a result of the member being at the location. As such any member of the social network service who may have a meeting with employees of the company at a particular location will be able to view a building or campus map along with information relevant to their visit at the building or campus. Moreover this content or information will be automatically presented via the mobile application of the member s mobile computing device when the member arrives at the particular location. If the content is being published in the context of an event that is to occur e.g. such as a conference a seminar a meeting etc. the representative of the company who is publishing the content may specify the duration of time during which the content will be accessible to members of the social network service. As such when members of the social network service arrive at the particular location this information can be automatically presented to the members of the social network service via their mobile computing devices based on their presence at the location specified by the authorized member of the company.

With some embodiments certain content may be presented to members of the social network service based solely on the members geo location and optionally notification settings of the mobile application as established by the members. However with some embodiments the content publishing module of the social network service provides a member targeting module that allows authorized representatives of an organization represented in the social graph of the social network service to specifically author content and or select content to be communicated to a particular target audience. Accordingly in some instances when the location aware content server module determines that a particular member is proximate with a particular location of an organization represented in the social graph of the social network service the location aware content server module will determine whether the member identified by the member identifier received with the content request has member profile attributes that satisfy the member targeting criteria specified by the representative of the organization and associated with a particular selection of content. When the member does have member profile attributes satisfying the specified member targeting criteria the associated content is communicated to the mobile computing device of the member so long as any notification settings established by the member for the particular type of content are also satisfied.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behavior indicating that the member is a likely an active job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as an active job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates. Accordingly a company that has available job openings can publish a message that is specifically directed to certain members of the social network service who are job seekers and thus more likely to be receptive to recruiting efforts. Techniques for assigning a job seeker score or classification to members of a social network service are described more completely in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 682 033 filed on Nov. 20 2012 with title Techniques for Quantifying the Job Seeking Propensity of Members of a Social Network Service which is hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.

With some embodiments the social network service includes what is generally referred to herein as a content publishing module with a member targeting module . The content publishing module enables an authorized representative of an organization represented in the social graph of the social network service to author or otherwise specify or select content of various content types to be communicated to members of the social network service. The particular communication channels may vary. For example the content publishing module may enable messages to be presented in an activity stream of a member. In addition the content publishing module enables notifications and content to be presented via a mobile application when published by a location aware content server module such as illustrated and described in connection with .

The member targeting module enables an authorized representative of an organization to specify a set of recipients to receive a message notification or some other content. In particular an authorized representative of an organization can target members to receive content by selecting various member profile attributes e.g. members residing in a particular location city or state members who are employed in a particular industry and who have a particular job title members who based on analysis of their interactions with applications content and services their profile data and social graph data have a high propensity to be job seekers and so forth . Accordingly a representative of an organization can tailor a message and or author or select specific content e.g. a job listing to be suitable for a particular subset of members of a social network service. Because the content can be tailored to the selected audience the selected audience is more likely to find the content to be of interest and the overall level of engagement is increased.

With some embodiments the authorized representative of the company can tailor the message to a member audience based on the members having previously expressed some specific interest with respect to a particular product or service for example by having interacted with a particular member interest button presented in connection with content e.g. a published message relating to the specific product or service. Accordingly consistent with some embodiments a member s previous selection or interaction with a member interest button presented in association with a message or status update relating to a particular product or service of a company can be used as targeting criteria with the member targeting logic . With some embodiments when an authorized representative is preparing to publish a message the author can select certain member targeting criteria that will cause the message to be published to select members such as those members who previously selected a particular member interest button. A more complete description of various techniques for how a member interest button or user interface element might be used as the basis for targeting members of a social network service to receive specific content is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 672 515 filed on Nov. 8 2012 with title Generating Leads for Products and Services via an Activity Stream which is hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.

Although not shown with some embodiments the social network service provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service . For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to author or specify some content of a particular type such that the content can be published and accessible to members of the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system.

As shown in the social network service includes a job posting module that enables individuals companies or other organizations to post job listings to a job listing service. As such members of the social network service can search for and browse job listings of interest. In addition a recommendation engine may analyze various job listings and select the job listings that are most likely to be of interest to a particular member based on that member s member profile attributes. Accordingly a job recommendation application may communicate the highest ranking job listings for a particular member to that particular member. With some embodiments when listing a job via the job posting module an authorized representative of a company can create content for distribution via the location aware content server module . Specifically the representative may specify member targeting criteria one or more geo locations and optionally some other content such that when members of the social network service having member profile attributes that satisfy the specified member targeting criteria are determined to be in a specified geo location a notification will be communicated to the mobile application executing on the mobile computing device of the member. The notification may for example notify the member of the job listing that is associated with the organization in the particular geographical location.

With some embodiments the social network service may include a third party content acquisition module for acquiring or obtaining content hosted at content servers of third parties. Subsequent to being obtained such content might be specified or selected for presentation to members for example via the location aware content server module .

Generally a social graph maintained by a social network service includes data identifying or otherwise indicating the associations connections and or relationships that individual members have with other members and other entities e.g. companies schools etc. represented in the social graph. For example consistent with some embodiments a social graph is implemented with a specialized graph data structure in which various entities e.g. people companies schools government institutions non profits and other organizations are represented as nodes connected by edges where the edges have different types representing the various associations and or relationships between the different entities. Although other techniques may be used with some embodiments the social graph data structure is implemented with a special type of database known as a graph database. Accordingly if a member is employed at a particular company this particular association will be reflected in the social graph. Similarly when a member joins a particular online group hosted by the social network service or hosted by a third party service provider the member s membership in the group may be reflected in the social graph data.

The interface of the content or message publishing module allows an administrator or representative of a company to author a message or specify some other content for publication to one or more members of the social network service via the location aware content server module. In this context publication means that the message will become available for presentation and viewing by a member but actual presentation to the member will depend upon the member being in a particular location associated with the content. As shown in the example interface of at least with some embodiments the representative can select a specific content type to which a message relates. For example in via the user interface element with reference number a job listing content type has been selected for publishing. A wide variety of other content types might also be selected. Examples include news articles messages product or service information promotional offerings company profile information including financial information maps parking information information enabling access to network and computer resources and so forth.

After selecting a content type with some embodiments a content identifier or uniform resource locater URL for some existing content is selected. In the example of the content identifier specifies a particular job listing which may for example be hosted at a job listing service operated by the social network service. Although not shown in addition to selecting a content type and some specific content a representative of the organization on whose behalf the content is being published can select which if any member interest buttons are to appear with the content when the content is presented via the mobile application on the mobile computing device. A member interest button e.g. a like button a 1 buttons a I want this product button and so forth is a user interface element that enables a member to express some thought or feeling toward the content. The default settings may specify both the number and type of member interest buttons that are to be presented if any with a particular type of content.

In addition to specifying the product and the member interest buttons to appear with the message the representative is presented with an input box via which the representative can input the text of a message. In addition to providing some text the representative or message author may share a link to some other content as illustrated in in connection with reference number . When the author provides the link the content associated with the link or some portion thereof is automatically retrieved and inserted into the message.

Finally a separate user interface element e.g. a button or link provides the author with the option of specifying who should receive the message or status update when published. In this example the author can select All Followers to have all followers of the company receive the location based message or the author can select to have a Targeted Audience receive the location based message. In other instances the author may opt to have all members of the social network service receive the location based message.

When the authorized representative of the organization on whose behalf some content is being published selects to have some content communicated to a targeted audience the representative may be presented with a user interface for a member targeting module similar to that shown in . In the example user interface of the representative author of the content or message is presented with several categories of member profile attributes including Company Size Interest Function Seniority Skills and Geography. By selecting the tab associated with a particular category of member profile attribute the author will be presented with a user interface enabling the author to select various member profile attributes as targeting criteria for selecting an intended audience of the published content. In the example of the currently selected tab corresponds with the Industry category . Accordingly the representative can select one or more industries in which members are employed as targeting criteria for the content being published. As shown with reference number the representative may select to have the content published and viewable by both employees and non employees of a company employees only or non employees. Similarly as shown with reference number with some embodiments the representative can target members based on their job seeking propensity. By selecting members who have certain member profile attributes the author of the location based content can tailor its message to a very specific audience likely to be receptive to receipt of any such content.

As the representative selects various member profile attributes the portion of the user interface with reference number is automatically updated to show member information e.g. profile photographs and or names of a subset of the members of the social network service who will receive the content if and when the members are present in the location associated with the location based content. Additionally the size of the targeted audience based on the currently selected member targeting criteria is displayed. For instance in the example of based on the currently selected member targeting criteria 12 429 members of the social network service will be eligible to receive the published content.

With some embodiments the content specified or otherwise provided via the example user interface of may automatically be associated with one or more geo locations as previously determined for the particular organization on behalf of which the content is being published. Alternatively as part of the user interface of or as a separate user interface a user interface may enable an authorized representative to select or otherwise specify geo location information including a geo fence a virtual perimeter for a real world geographical area to be associated with the content.

At method operation using the received geo location the location aware content server module determines that the member is in the proximity of an organization that is represented in the social graph of the social network service. Next at method operation using the member s member identifier the location aware content server module determines that the member has member profile attributes that satisfy member targeting criteria specified by a representative of the organization and associated with some specified content having a particular content type. At method operation the location aware content server module determines that the member s notification settings for the mobile application are satisfied in view of the type of content and the type of organization. Finally at method operation a notification and or the selection of content are communicated to the mobile computing device of the member for presentation to the member.

Consistent with embodiments of the invention a variety of different types of mobile applications can request information from a social network service where the request for information includes the member s current geo location. Accordingly a location aware content distribution module of the social network service can convey to members of the social network service relevant insightful information derived from analyzing the social graph of the social network service. For example a mobile calendar application may make a content request prior to a planned calendar event e.g. a meeting that is to occur at a company. Based on a determination that the member is currently on a particular campus of the company the location aware content module can present to the member relevant information about the company and specifically the particular campus at which the member is currently located. This information may include relevant profile information of the company to include a campus map financial information about the company key employees of the company and so forth. The information may also include member profile information of employees of the company who are also members of the social network service. For example the information may include certain member profile information or links to member profile web pages for key employees of the company and or employees of the company with whom the member is connected or otherwise associated as evidenced in the social graph of the social network service.

In some instances the particular content that is selected for presentation to the member is based not only on the member s current location but also based on there being an association connection or relationship between the member and another entity in the social graph to which the content relates. Furthermore with some embodiments content may only be presented to the member when the strength of the association connection or relationship as evidenced in the social graph of the social network service meets or exceeds a threshold level. With some embodiments the threshold levels may be configurable by the member for example as part of the notification settings for a particular mobile application. Furthermore in some instances the member may configure the notification settings on a per entity type basis.

For example the member may configure the notification settings for a mobile application such that the member is only notified when the member is in proximity of a company e.g. as an entity type at which a certain configurable number of the employees are direct connections of the member. Similarly the member may establish a notification setting to be notified when the member is near a company at which a certain configurable number of employees are alumni of the same school of which the member is an alumnus. In another example a connection strength threshold may be dependent upon the number of people in the member s network e.g. first degree connections or first and second degree connections etc. who are following the entity e.g. company or are otherwise subscribed to receive messages published on behalf of the company via the social network service. In yet another example a notification setting may allow for a connection threshold to be established based on a connection or association with an employee of the entity where the employee has a particular job title e.g. Chief Executive Officer CEO Chief Financial Officer CFO General Counsel GC and so forth . With some embodiments the association or connection strength thresholds are determined by default by the social network service where in other instances the settings may be manually configured.

The exact nature of the content that may be selected for presentation to the member will generally be dependent upon the member being in proximity with a particular entity represented in the social graph of the social network service but will otherwise vary from one implementation to the next. Several examples of the type of content that may be presented are described immediately below. In one example the information presented may be company profile information as maintained at the social network service. Such information may include a textual summary or overview describing a company financial information of a company a current stock price of a company a campus map of a company and information describing a product or service of a company.

In another example the information presented may be specifically dependent upon there being an association connection or relationship between the member to whom the information is being presented and another entity member company school organization etc. in the social graph. For example the types of social graph data that may be presented include but are certainly not limited to member profile information of one or more members of the social network service whom based on their member profile information are currently or were previously employed at the company and with whom the member is directly connected or with whom the member is following member profile information of one or more members of the social network service whom based on member profile information are currently employed at the company and are alumni of the same school of which the member is an alumnus and member profile information of one or more members of the social network service whom based on member profile information are currently employed at the company and are members of the same online group or community of which the member is also a member.

In yet another example the content presented to the member via the mobile computing device may be selected based on the content having a relationship with the specific entity with which the member is proximate and the content meeting or exceeding a threshold matching score derived by a recommendation or matching engine. For example a job recommendation engine may analyze attributes of a job listing posted to a job listing service in view of a member s member profile information and a member s intent as derived by analyzing the member s activity and behavior with respect to various applications content and services of the social network service. Based on this analysis the job recommendation engine may identify a particular job listing of a company that is likely to be of interest to the member. If and when the member is near the company the member may be notified via a mobile computing device of the particular job listing associated with the company. Other advantageous aspects of the present inventive subject matter will be apparent from the description of the figures that follows.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

