---

title: System and method for enabling hot-desking
abstract: A hot-desking application and methods of operating the same are described. The hot-desking application can be provisioned as an explicit sequenced application for all user addresses of record in addition to being provisioned as an implicit sequenced application for all of the possible hot-desk endpoint addresses. Through such provisioning, the hot-desking application can, among other things, allow for calls to be placed directly from a hot-desk endpoint but still show the user's address of record as the calling identity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473544&OS=09473544&RS=09473544
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 09473544
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120925
---
The present disclosure is generally directed toward communications and more specifically toward communication systems and methods.

Most large companies these days have a heterogeneous mix of Private Branch eXchanges PBXs enterprise communication systems. Many of these same companies have a Hot Desk environment where employees are allowed to sit at a different desk and a different telephone on occasion or even each day. These companies would like for their employees to have one single enterprise communication address that can represent that employee for all calls received and made by the employee. These companies would also like for this to be the case regardless of the type and manufacturer of endpoint e.g. Cisco endpoint Avaya endpoint Siemens endpoint etc. at which the employee is currently sitting.

Previous attempts to address the above mentioned problem include 1 Call Forwarding 2 Session Initiation Protocol SIP Call me Call you and 3 Internet Protocol IP Softphone Telecommuter mode. The call forwarding solution simply sends incoming calls to a user s address to their hot desk number. The SIP Call me Call you can be used to have an application initiate a call from a hot desk endpoint and make it look to the called party as if he she was called from the user s address. The IP Softphone Telecommuter mode can be used to extend an incoming call to user s address out to the hot desk number. It can also be used to initiate a call in the Call me Call you paradigm described above.

The available solutions fall short in several ways. First of all the available solutions do not allow for the user to initiate calls directly from the hot desk endpoint. Rather the user must use an application of some sort to initiate a Call me Call you flow so that the far end sees the user s address.

A problem with the IP Softphone solution in particular is that an IP Softphone solution requires the IP Softphone to be running and be registered with a PBX. This softphone application consumes both desktop and PBX resources for the user s address in addition to those being consumed by the hot desk endpoint.

A problem with the call forward solution is that the call Forward solution for redirecting incoming calls requires a Computer Telephone Integration CTI link to each of the heterogeneous PBXs. As can be appreciated these links require time and resources to establish. Another big problem with the call forward solution is that it doesn t address outbound calls.

It is with respect to the above issues and other problems that the embodiments presented herein were contemplated. In particular embodiments of the present disclosure propose the ability to among other things utilize application sequencing to facilitate a better and more effective hot desking solution. In some embodiments every hot desk user would be an provisioned SIP user of an enterprise communication system even though they may not have any registered SIP endpoints. In some embodiments a hot desking application is provided and can be provisioned as a sequenced application for all user addresses of record. Furthermore the hot desking application could also be provisioned as a sequenced application for all of the possible SIP and non SIP hot desk endpoint addresses.

In one example operation when the user sits down at a desk she would note the address of the endpoint at that desk. In some embodiments she would then associate that hot desk address with her own public Address of Record AOR . This could be done via a Web based User Interface UI a Graphical User Interface GUI a Telephone User Interface TUI or the like. The system may in some embodiments write to a database accessible by the hot desk sequenced application. Alternatively the hot desk association could be coupled with some other sign in process e.g. agent login so that an extra user action is not required to complete the hot desk association.

In some embodiments for incoming calls to the user s AOR all applications for the called user e.g. termination or term side sequenced applications provisioned for the called user would be invoked. In this scenario the hot desk application would be the last such sequenced application. Upon receiving the incoming communication initiating message e.g. an INVITE message the hot desk application would check to see if the user s AOR is associated with a hot desk address. In this case it would find such an association and would proxy the INVITE to the hot desk address. Everything upstream of the hot desk application e.g. all previously sequenced applications would see the communications as being with a device associated with the user s AOR but in actuality they would be communicating with the hot desk endpoint.

In some embodiments for outgoing calls from the hot desk endpoint there are two separate origination sequence vectors. There is a sequence vector associated with the hot desk address and a second sequence vector associated with the user address. The hot desk application would typically be the only application in the origination sequence vector for the hot desk address. When invoked the application checks to see if there s an association between the hot desk address and a user AOR. In this case it would find such an association and would then change the asserted identity calling number of the call to correspond to the user s AOR. The user s sequenced applications e.g. origination or orig. applications would then be invoked before the call is delivered to the called party. All downstream applications and or parties would see the call as coming from the user s AOR instead of from the hot desk number.

In accordance with at least some embodiments hot desk users would be instructed to not call another hot desk user directly e.g. by dialing the hot desk number rather than the user s AOR . If this practice is adhered to all calls can be sequenced and have their identities manipulated. This is true even if the two parties e.g. called and calling party are using hot desk endpoints on the same PBX.

In accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure a method is provided which generally comprises 

receiving a first message the first message comprising an asserted identity that corresponds to a hot desk number 

in response to determining that the hot desk number has been associated with the calling user s address of record changing the asserted identity of the first message to a non hot desk number associated with the calling user s address of record.

In accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure another method is provided which generally comprises 

receiving a first message the first message comprising a Request Uniform Resource Identifier R URI that comprises a non hot desk number which is associated with an address of record for a called user 

in response to determining that the called user s address of record is associated with the hot desk number changing the R URI to the hot desk number.

The term server as used herein should be understood to include any server collection of servers processors within a server blades within a server one or more virtual machines being executed by a server containers or processes being executed by a server etc. In other words servers are not necessarily limited to individual hardware components with dedicated processors and memory. Servers are also not limited to a particular type of container executed by a server such as a J2EE server or any other version of a Java EE server. Non limiting examples of containers that may be executed by or constitute a server include application containers e.g. Java Virtual Machines applet containers e.g. web browsers or applet viewers Enterprise JavaBeans EJB containers web containers Application Programming Interfaces APIs and the like.

The phrases at least one one or more and and or are open ended expressions that are both conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. For example each of the expressions at least one of A B and C at least one of A B or C one or more of A B and C one or more of A B or C and A B and or C means A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together or A B and C together.

The term a or an entity refers to one or more of that entity. As such the terms a or an one or more and at least one can be used interchangeably herein. It is also to be noted that the terms comprising including and having can be used interchangeably.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be any type of database such as relational hierarchical object oriented and or the like. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present disclosure are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the disclosure is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects of the disclosure can be separately claimed.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

The communication network may be packet switched and or circuit switched. An illustrative communication network includes without limitation a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Personal Area Network PAN a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS network a cellular communications network an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network a SIP network a Voice over IP VoIP network or combinations thereof. In one configuration the communication network is a public network supporting the TCP IP suite of protocols. Communications supported by the communication network include real time near real time and non real time communications. For instance the communication network may support voice video text web conferencing or any combination of media.

In some embodiments the communication network may connect one or more external communication devices with an enterprise communication network . The external communication devices may be considered external because they are not fully administered by the entity or group of entities that administers the enterprise network . In some embodiments however the communication devices may be operated by enterprise users and may be partially administered in accordance with communication rules within the enterprise network .

In some embodiments the enterprise network corresponds to a communication network or set of communication networks that are owned and operated by a single entity. The enterprise network in some embodiments may be distributed e.g. a WAN or it may be confined to a single location e.g. a LAN . In other embodiments multiple entities may share some or all of the components of the enterprise network .

In the illustrated embodiment the enterprise network is shown to include an access element having a server table a communication server one or more application servers capable of providing one or multiple communication features to users one or more internal communication devices a data store and one or multiple other servers . Some or all of the components of the enterprise network may be interconnected by a trusted or secure or private Local Area Network LAN .

It should be appreciated that some or all of the functions depicted in may be co hosted and or co resident on a single server. The depiction of components in and the other figures provided herein are generally intended to be a logical depiction of the components of the system . It should be appreciated that an enterprise network or multiple enterprise networks may comprise multiple LANs connected via a WAN such as the communication network . A single enterprise communication network is depicted in and described herein for ease of understanding and simplicity and in no way is intended to limit embodiments of the present invention to a single enterprise network .

Furthermore it should be appreciated that while a single access element is depicted most larger enterprise networks comprise multiple access elements which may or may not be of the same type. For example a single enterprise network may comprise a first access element from a first vendor e.g. an access element from Cisco and a second access element from a second vendor e.g. an access element from Avaya . In accordance with at least some embodiments the access element corresponds to a PBX multiple PBXs or components within a PBX. More specifically the access element may provide network access capabilities similar to those provided by known PBX devices or PBX devices yet to be developed. Even more specifically the access element may be configured to make connections among the internal components of the enterprise network and also connect them to the communication network via trunk lines for example.

The LAN can be secured from intrusion by untrusted parties by a gateway and or firewall located between the LAN and communication network . In some embodiments the access element may include the functionality of the gateway and or firewall. In some embodiments a separate gateway or firewall may be provided between the access element and the communication network .

Although only certain numbers of each server e.g. a single access element a single communications server two application servers etc. is depicted in one two three four or more instances of any server type may be provided in a single enterprise network or across multiple separate LANs owned and operated by a single enterprise but separated by communication network . In configurations where an enterprise or an enterprise network includes two or more servers of a single type e.g. multiple communication servers each server may comprise similar functionality but may be provisioned for providing its features to only a subset of all enterprise users. In particular as a non limiting example a first communications server may be authoritative for and service a first subset of enterprise users whereas a second communications server may be authoritative for and service a second subset of enterprise users where the first and second subsets of users generally do not share a common user. This is one reason why the access element may be provided with a server table the server table may comprise the information that maps a user to their authoritative communication server .

Additionally multiple servers can support a common user community. For example in geo redundant and other applications where users aren t necessarily bound to a single application server there may be a cluster of equivalent servers where a user can be serviced by any server in the cluster.

The communications server can be included in the access element e.g. be incorporated into PBX functionality . Alternatively or in addition the communication server may comprise an enterprise server components or applications executed within a server a virtual machine provided by a server combinations thereof or other type of telecommunications system switch or server. The communication server is in some embodiments configured to enable the execution of telecommunication functions such as the suite of applications and services made available via Avaya Aura platform of Avaya Inc. including Communication Manager Avaya Aura Communication Manager Avaya IP Office Communication Manager Branch Session Manager MultiVantage Express and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the access element is responsible for routing communications within the enterprise network to the communications server responsible for servicing a particular user involved in a communication session. For example if a first enterprise user is being called by an external communication device then the access element may initially receive the inbound call determine that the call is directed toward the first enterprise user reference the server table to identify the authoritative communications server for the first enterprise user and route the inbound call to the authoritative communications server . Likewise communications between internal enterprise users e.g. internal communication devices may first be serviced by the originating user s authoritative communications server during the origination phase of communications set up. After the origination phase is complete the authoritative communications server of the terminating or called user may be invoked to complete the termination phase of communications set up. In some embodiments the communications server for the originating and terminating user may be the same but this is not necessarily required. In situations where more than two enterprise users are involved in a communication session authoritative communications servers for each of the involved users may be employed without departing from the scope of the present invention. Additionally the authoritative communications servers for each user may be in the same enterprise network or in different enterprise networks which are owned by a common enterprise but are separated by the communication network .

Each communications server may include user preferences and a feature sequencer . The feature sequencer provides the communication server with the ability to route messages to the appropriate servers within the network . Specifically the feature sequencer may be invoked in response to receiving a request to initiate a communication session e.g. an INVITE message in a SIP environment an HTTP GET request an inbound or outbound phone call an email message a Short Message Service SMS message etc. or a request for some other type of information e.g. a request for presence information such as via a SUBSCRIBE message a database query etc. . Once invoked the feature sequencer may be configured to refer to the user preferences to determine which server is to be activated next e.g. receive the message next . More specifically the communication server may be configured to establish a chain of Back to Back User Agents B2BUAs or proxies in at least one of a dialog and media path of a communication session by sequencing each B2BUA into an application sequence one by one until the entire application sequence has been constructed.

The user preferences for a communication server contains the feature communication preferences for each user for which it is authoritative. As one non limiting example the user preferences may define which applications from the application server should be invoked for a particular user s application sequence. In some embodiments the user preferences may be in a table format and may be provisioned by users and or by administrative personnel. The user preferences for a particular user are referenced by the feature sequencer to determine which if any applications should be invoked for the user.

The applications that can be included in a particular application sequence e.g. via the communication server and application server are generally included to accommodate the user s preferences and to provide communication services in accordance therewith. Applications may vary according to media type function and the like. Illustrative types of applications include without limitation a fixed mobile convergence application a call setup application a voicemail application an email application a voice application a video application a text application a conferencing application a call recording application a communication log service a security application an encryption application a collaboration application a whiteboard application mobility applications presence applications media applications messaging applications bridging applications and any other type of application that can supplement or enhance communications. Additionally one two three or more applications of a given type can be included in a single application sequence without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The hot desk application corresponds to a specific type of application that enables hot desking for users within the enterprise . More specifically the hot desk application may be configured to analyze messages transmitted during a communication session or during setup of a communication session to determine 1 if the message is received from a hot desk number 2 if the message is received from a user that has associated themselves and their AOR with a hot desk number 3 if the message is directed toward a hot desk number and or 4 if the message is directed toward a user that has associated themselves and their AOR with a hot desk number. As will be discussed in further detail herein if the hot desk application receives a message that meets one of the above criteria the hot desk application may be configured to alter one or more of the message s To value Request Uniform Resource Identifier R URI From header Contact header and P Asserted Identity PAI prior to forwarding the message to the next destination. The alteration of the message may occur within one or more message headers or in any other way allowed defined by applicable standards and protocols.

The internal communication devices can be similar or identical to the external communication devices except the internal communication devices are provisioned and often owned by the enterprise administering the network . As can be seen in some internal communication devices may be connected to the access element via the LAN while other internal communication devices e.g. analog and digital stations may be connected directly to the access element . Illustrative types of communication devices include without limitation cellular phones smartphones laptops Personal Computers PCs Personal Digital Assistants PDAs digital phones analog phones and or any other type of capable phone softphone or digital telephone. Examples of suitable telephones include the 1600 2400 4600 5400 5600 9600 9620 9630 9640 9640G 9650 9608 9611 9621 9641 and Quick Edition telephones IP wireless telephones such as Avaya Inc. s IP DECT phones video phones such as Avaya Inc. s Videophone and softphones such as Avaya Flare .

The other server s may correspond to any other type of server or collection of servers within the network . In some embodiments the other servers may include one or more of voicemail servers email servers calendar servers presence servers Instant Messaging IM servers backup servers virtual machines or the like.

The data store can be configured to include enterprise subscriber information such as name job title electronic address information e.g. telephone number email address instant messaging handle direct dial extension and the like subscriber contact lists e.g. contact name and electronic address information other employee records user preferences and the like. Information contained in the data store can be updated by any of the components within the network assuming such devices have permissions to do so and or made available to one or more of the components within the network via various types of databases servers Application Programming Interfaces APIs etc.

The various servers and components depicted in may be implemented separately i.e. on different servers or together i.e. on a single server . In particular two or more depicted components e.g. communication server and application server may be implemented on a single server without departing from the scope of the present invention. Thus a single device may provide the functionality of several components depicted separately in .

With reference now to a call flow and method of processing a call initiated by a user with a hot desk endpoint will be described in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. The hot desk endpoint may correspond to any communication device that is shared by two or more enterprise users or is made available for temporary use by an enterprise user. In some embodiments the hot desk endpoint comprises any type of communication device.

The method begins when a first message is transmitted from the hot desk endpoint to an access element step S . In some embodiments the first message may correspond to a session initiating message such as a SIP INVITE message or variants thereof. In this particular example the calling user e.g. Alice may be initiating a call to a called user e.g. Bob . While the calling user Alice corresponds to an enterprise user it is not a necessary condition that the called user Bob also be an enterprise user. Certain embodiments of the present disclosure however contemplate that Alice and Bob may both be enterprise users and both may or may not be utilizing a hot desk endpoint. It should be noted that if the hot desk endpoint corresponds to a SIP endpoint then the first message would not necessarily traverse the access element but rather may be routed directly to the communication server thereby skipping step S.

In the examples discussed herein assume that Alice has a first AOR within the enterprise and that first AOR is or has been associated with a first direct dial number or extension e.g. administratively associated . More specifically certain communication systems and system providers enable a direct dial number to actually be an AOR or vice versa. As an example a user such as Alice and Bob may have an AOR as an alphanumeric AOR e.g. Alice enterprise.com an E.164 AOR e.g. 1303123456 and or an enterprise canonical numeric AOR e.g. 4567 . For ease of understanding the example assume that Alice s AOR is 13031234567. Thus when other users want to call Alice directly they dial Alice s AOR e.g. 13031234567 or some variant thereof e.g. extension 4567 depending upon the dial plan assigned to Alice. In this example assume that Alice has called Bob at 19089353456. This dialed number e.g. Bob s number may or may not correspond to a number internal to the enterprise network .

Continuing the example of the access element receives the first message from the hot desk endpoint and routes the message to the appropriate communication server step S . Upon receiving the first message the communication server determines that the number from which the message was originated e.g. the number of the hot desk endpoint which for example may be 444 1234 corresponds to or falls within a number range that is configured to be sequenced to the hot desk application . At this point the communication server implicitly sequences the hot desk application by forwarding the message to the hot desk application step S . It should be noted that the communication server in some embodiments may sequence the hot desk application as the first application in the sequence of applications for Alice although this may not be necessary since the hot desk application will have already served its purpose by mapping the hot desk number to the enterprise AOR.

Thus when the hot desk application receives the message from the communication server the hot desk application determines that the number from which the message was originated e.g. 444 1234 has been associated with Alice s AOR. In some embodiments the hot desk application is made aware of the association between Alice s AOR and the hot desk number because Alice registered herself and her AOR with the hot desk endpoint when she sat down and started using the hot desk endpoint . Details of this registration process are not described herein and it should be appreciated that any registration process or set of processes may be used. For instance Alice may enter a TUI code or series of TUI codes at the hot desk endpoint to register herself and her AOR with the hot desk endpoint . As another example Alice may use a web based UI upon sitting down at the hot desk endpoint to communicate directly with the hot desk application and register herself and her AOR with the hot desk endpoint . Other registration examples will become readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Furthermore the hot desk application may be configured to analyze the From Contact and or PAI header of the message to determine if the value contained in the analyzed header e.g. 444 1234 is actually associated with a user s AOR. Once the hot desk application determines that the value in the From Contact and or PAI header of the message has been associated with Alice s AOR the hot desk application changes the value in the header s to correspond to Alice s AOR e.g. 13031234567 . This causes the message to appear as though it was actually originated by Alice at her personal endpoint rather than Alice at the hot desk endpoint .

After the From Contact and or PAI header value has been changed to Alice s direct dial number or extension the hot desk application returns the message back to the communication server step S . At this point the communication server now recognizes the message as being originated by Alice rather than by hot desk endpoint and invokes the feature sequencer which refers to Alice s communication preferences in the user preferences . Upon looking up Alice s communication preferences the communication server is enabled to sequence other origination applications for Alice in accordance with her user preferences . In particular the communication server can forward the message along to other origination applications step S and each of the other origination applications can insert themselves into the communication session e.g. dialog and or media path as a B2BUA or proxy depending upon the nature of the other origination applications . In some embodiments the other origination applications may correspond to various applications . After each application has been appropriately sequenced for Alice the method continues with the last origination application providing the message back to Alice s communication server step S so that the message can be forwarded along to Bob or Bob s communication server depending upon whether Bob is an enterprise user or not.

With reference now to a call flow and method of processing a call directed toward a user employing a hot desk endpoint will be described in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. The hot desk endpoint may by similar or identical to the hot desk endpoint in that it may correspond to any communication device that is shared by two or more enterprise users or is made available for temporary use by an enterprise user.

Furthermore with respect to the example of assume that Bob has a second AOR within the enterprise and that second AOR is or has been associated with a second direct dial number or extension e.g. administratively associated . For ease of understanding the example assume that Bob s AOR is 19707654321. Thus when other users e.g. Alice want to call Bob directly they dial Bob s AOR 19707654321 or some variant thereof e.g. extension 4321 depending upon the dial plan assigned to Bob.

Although the call flow of is depicted as being separate and distinct from the call flow of it should be appreciated that the flow of may in some embodiments pick up where the flow of left off. Specifically step S may be performed after step S. It should also be appreciated that the flow of can be performed independent of the flow depicted in . For instance the flow of may be initiated in response to Bob receiving a call from an external communication device .

In some embodiments the call flow for the call to Bob begins with the communication server e.g. Bob s authoritative communication server invoking the feature sequencer to determine Bob s communication preferences from the user preferences . Once this determination has been made the communication server invokes the application sequence for Bob via one or more other termination applications step S . In some embodiments the termination applications may correspond to one or more applications that are sequenced as B2BUAs or proxies by the communication server so as to fulfill Bob s communication preferences. The communication server knows that Bob s preferences should be fulfilled because the message is addressed to Bob s AOR or a direct dial number associated with Bob s AOR. Every time an application is sequenced the message may be transmitted back to communication server to determine if another termination application is to be sequenced for Bob step S . This back and forth between the communication server and the other termination applications continues until all of Bob s applications have been sequenced.

Thereafter the communication server sequences the hot desk application on behalf of Bob in case Bob is sitting at a hot desk endpoint step S . Upon receiving the message the hot desk application determines that Bob has associated himself with the hot desk endpoint having a hot desk number e.g. 555 6789 . Bob may have associated himself and or his AOR with the hot desk endpoint in a registration step that is similar or identical to the registration step discussed above.

When the hot desk application determines that the received message is associated with Bob and therefore also associated with a hot desk endpoint the hot desk application is configured to change one or more of the message s To value and a value of the message s R URI header from Bob s AOR e.g. 19707654321 to the hot desk number e.g. 555 6789 . After the hot desk application has changed the To value and or R URI header of the message the method continues with the hot desk application returning the message to the communication server step S .

As can be seen above the hot desk application may correspond to the last sequenced application for Bob. In other words the other termination applications may be sequenced prior to sequencing the hot desk application . Therefore when the communication server receives the message from the hot desk application it is most likely that no further applications need to be sequenced by the communication server . Accordingly the method continues with the communication server forwarding the message to the access element associated with the hot desk endpoint step S which subsequently provides the message to the hot desk endpoint at which Bob is sitting and has registered with step S .

To further understand embodiments of the present disclosure if the examples of were combined then Alice would call Bob at 19707654321 from hot desk endpoint 444 1234 . After the message has been processed by hot desk applications for Alice and Bob the message would ultimately reach Bob at the hot desk endpoint 555 6789 and it would appear to Bob and all other origination and termination applications as though Alice is actually calling from her direct dial line 13031234567 . Furthermore all of Alice s origination applications and Bob s termination applications will be sequenced even if Alice and Bob happen to be using hot desk endpoints and that are hosted on the same access element .

With reference now to a method of hot desking will be described in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. The method is initiated when a user notes a hot desk address of a communication device e.g. a hot desk endpoint at a particular workstation or desk step . The user then associates that hot desk address with their AOR step . In some embodiments the user associates their hot desk address with their AOR by performing a registration process. This registration process may occur via a web based GUI or by implementing some sort of single sign on SSO process that is coupled with the user simply logging into the network from the hot desk endpoint. The registration process may also be accomplished via a TUI or the like.

The registration process causes the user s AOR to be stored with a logical association in the hot desk application or at some location that is accessible to the hot desk application e.g. data store step . In some embodiments the hot desk application maintains an internal record of the fact that the user associated their AOR with the hot desk endpoint and specifically with the hot desk number assigned to the hot desk endpoint. By having this information available the hot desking application can easily invoke the hot desking features discussed herein whenever the hot desk application is sequenced by the communication server step . As discussed above the communication server is configured to implicitly sequence the hot desk application for calls originating from the hot desk endpoint and then sequence other applications for the user that is calling from the hot desk endpoint. Likewise the communication server is configured to sequence the hot desk application for a called user that has been identified as sitting at or using a hot desk endpoint.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor GPU or CPU or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods FPGA . These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

