---

title: Voxel-based approach for disease detection and evolution
abstract: A voxel-based technique is provided for performing quantitative imaging and analysis of tissue image data. Serial image data is collected for tissue of interest at different states of the issue. The collected image data may be normalized, after which the registered image data is analyzed on a voxel-by-voxel basis, thereby retaining spatial information for the analysis. Various thresholds are applied to the registered tissue data to predict or determine the evolution of a disease state, such as brain cancer, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09053534&OS=09053534&RS=09053534
owner: THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
number: 09053534
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121121
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 563 333 entitled Voxel Based Approach for Disease Detection and Evolution filed Nov. 23 2011 which is hereby incorporated herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under CA085878 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to novel and advantageous systems and methods for monitoring tissue regions and more particularly to systems and methods for determining or predicting changes in tissue regions over a period of time for example during patient diagnosis or treatment.

In current standard medical practice imaging modalities are commonly used to rapidly acquire images to provide qualitative information on the state of a tissue or disease process. In clinical practice these modalities provide information about the extent or presence of the disease via images that are visually assessed by a trained professional. While contrast information in the images is sensitive to the physiological state of the tissue as a result of disease image contrasts are typically arbitrarily scaled and provide no quantitative information about the disease e.g. cellularity vasculature functional structural volumetric or metabolism . Nevertheless these imaging modalities are sensitive to changes provoked by a disease process and can be used to assess evolution and effects of treatment intervention of the disease by visual comparison of images acquired over time. However the contrast changes in images taken over time may be difficult to detect by traditional qualitative visual assessment even for the trained professional. Accordingly a method for providing quantitative information about a disease over a period of time using imaging modalities is needed. Further a method of providing one or more images of tissue taken over a period of time that is easier to accurately read than known methods of providing and or comparing images is needed.

The present disclosure relates to techniques for a computer implemented method of analyzing a sample region of a body to predict the evolution of a disease. The method includes collecting using a medical imaging device a reference data set of a first sample region the reference image data set comprising a first plurality of voxels each characterized by a signal value in the reference image data set. Further the method includes collecting using the medical imaging device a second image data set of a second sample region the second image data set comprising a second plurality of voxels each characterized by a signal value in the second image data set. After collection the method includes registering via computer executable instructions the reference image data set and the second image data set to produce a co registered image data set that comprises a plurality of co registered voxels wherein each of the co registered voxels includes the signal value of the co registered voxel of the reference image data set and the second image data set and wherein each voxel includes the value of the difference between the co registered voxel of the reference image data set and the second image data set. A threshold significance level for the value of the difference between the co registered voxel of the reference image data set and the second image data set is determined and the volume of voxels that exceed the threshold significance level is quantified. The method finally includes forming a parametric response map via computer executable instructions using the co registered image data set and the threshold significance level for the value of the difference between the co registered voxels to segment the parametric response map data into at least a region that exceeds the threshold significance level.

The present disclosure is also directed to an apparatus having a processor and a computer readable medium that includes instructions that when executed by the processor cause the apparatus to collect from a magnetic resonance imaging device a plurality of fluid attenuated inversion recovery image FLAIR data sets of a sample region wherein each image data set comprises a plurality of voxels each of which is characterized by a signal value register in an image processing module of the apparatus the plurality of image data sets to produce a co registered image data set comprising a plurality of co registered voxels wherein each of the co registered voxels includes the signal value from each of the plurality of image data sets form in a pathology diagnostic module of the apparatus a parametric response map data set using the co registered image data set wherein the mapping data set comprises the changes in FLAIR signal values between the co registered voxels and perform in the pathology diagnostic module a threshold analysis of the mapping data set to segment the mapping data into at least one region where the change in the FLAIR signal values between the co registered voxels was an increase.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the disclosure. As will be realized the various embodiments of the present disclosure are capable of modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive. In contrast embodiments of methods described herein may improve the accuracy of the metric at diagnosing progression in the presence of tumor heterogeneity during treatment.

The present disclosure is directed to voxel based analytical approach applied to conventional medical images to detect subtle changes in image contrast that are predictive of tissue disease evolution. As earlier stated while contrast information in traditional medical images may be sensitive to the physiological state of the imaged tissue as a result of disease these image contrasts are typically arbitrarily scaled and provide no quantitative information about the disease e.g. cellularity vasculature functional structural volumetric or metabolism . Nevertheless these imaging modalities are sensitive to changes provoked by a disease process and can be used to assess evolution and effects of treatment intervention of the disease by visual comparison of images acquired over time.

The technology described herein is based on spatial alignment and appropriate intensity scaling of volumetric images acquired at two or more time points such that voxel based quantitative analysis can be used to detect and display tissue regions undergoing early change as evidenced by changes in signal intensities contained within the images. While these image contrast changes are present in the original images resulting from known techniques the images may be difficult to detect by traditional qualitative visual assessment even for the trained professional. In contrast the output of the present voxel based analysis of the present disclosure provides stark labeling of regions suspected of the onset of change and these regions have high probability to undergo gross change at a later date.

Normalization of these modalities is one approach to enhance sensitivity to physiological change for assessing disease extent serially as well as between patients. By identifying a region of tissue unaffected by disease and with a relatively constant physiological state for the time frame of interest e.g. during treatment or for regular follow up or annual scans the signal intensity of this region can be used to normalize the entire three dimensional 3D image data set. As long as this normalizing region does not change substantially any changes within the diseased tissue can be analyzed over time as well as between patients.

In one embodiment the methods and systems of the present disclosure include normalization of cerebral blood volume CBV to the CBV of white matter in the brain. The relative CBV rCBV can be accurately assessed and analyzed thereby providing information on tumor grade that may be predictive of patient overall survival. Advantageously embodiments of the present disclosure may use conventional non quantitative i.e. conventional weighted images that are normalized and subsequently analyzed. Prior to analysis in some embodiments linear or deformable algorithms may be applied to the images to spatially align them i.e. the images that are obtained at the different scan intervals are aligned with the reference image. Aligning the images also referred to herein as registration allows for quantification of change on a voxel by voxel basis which can be used to provide a very sensitive approach to detect quantify and spatially display changes in image contrasts to provide for detailed insight into the status extent progression and response of a disease using images obtained from a wide variety of imaging modalities for example but not limited to magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography CT two dimensional planar X Ray positron emission tomography PET ultrasound US optical imaging i.e. fluorescence near infrared NIR bioluminescence and single photon emission computed tomography SPECT .

Within a given instrumentation source e.g. MRI CT X Ray PET and SPECT a variety of data can be generated. For example MRI devices can generate diffusion perfusion permeability normalized and spectroscopic images which include molecules containing for example but not limited to 1H 13C 23 Na 31P and 19F hyperpolarized Helium Xenon and or 13C MRI which can also be used to generate kinetic parameter maps. PET SPECT and CT devices are also capable of generating static images as well as kinetic parameters by fitting temporally resolved imaging data to a pharmacokinetic model. Imaging data irrespective of source and modality can be presented as quantified i.e. has physical units or normalized i.e. images are normalized to an external phantom or something of known and constant property or a defined signal within the image volume maps so that images can be compared between patients as well as data acquired during different scanning sessions.

The techniques of the present disclosure are not limited to a particular type or kind of tissue region or motion. By way of example only suitable tissue types include lung prostate breast colon rectum bladder ovaries skin liver spine bone pancreas cervix lymph thyroid spleen adrenal gland salivary gland sebaceous gland testis thymus gland penis uterus trachea skeletal muscle smooth muscle heart etc. In some embodiments the tissue region may be a whole body or large portion thereof for example a body segment such as a torso or limb a body system such as the gastrointestinal system endocrine system etc. or a whole organ comprising multiple tumors such as whole liver of a living human being. In some embodiments the tissue region may be a diseased tissue region. In some embodiments the tissue region may be an organ. In some embodiments the tissue region may be a tumor for example a malignant or benign tumor. In some embodiments the tissue region may be a breast tumor a liver tumor a bone lesion and or a head neck tumor. In some embodiments the tissue may be from a non human animal. In other embodiment the tissue may not be a tumor and or may not be cancerous.

In addition the techniques are not limited to a particular type or kind of treatment. In some embodiments the techniques may be used as part of a pharmaceutical treatment a vaccine treatment a chemotherapy based treatment a radiation based treatment a surgical treatment and or a homeopathic treatment and or a combination of treatments. In other embodiments the techniques may be used for prognosis diagnosis disease detection staging and treatment response assessment. Embodiments of the present disclosure may find application in for example but not limited to hospitals clinics clinical research organizations research institutions and labs.

Parametric response maps PRM were developed and shown to improve the sensitivity of diffusion MRI data to aid in identifying early therapeutic response in glioma patients. PRM when applied to diffusion MRI data had been validated as an early surrogate imaging biomarker for gliomas head and neck cancer breast cancer and metastatic prostate cancer to the bone for example. PRM is found to improve the sensitivity of the diffusion and perfusion MRI data by classifying voxels based on the extent of change in the quantitative values over time. This approach provides not only spatial information and regional response in the cancer to treatment but is also a global measure that can be used as a decision making tool for the treatment management of cancer patients for example. The global measure is presented as the relative volume of tumor whose quantitative values have increased decreased or remained unchanged with time.

In known methods of analysis images are interpreted subjectively based on image contrast or quantitatively by lesion size for example. In contrast embodiments of the present disclosure may objectively depict the image contrast change over time in normal and diseased tissue for use as a potential surrogate indicator of disease evolution for example response or progression. In some embodiments the method may include obtaining two or more volumetric images via an imaging modality registering the image s to a reference image set segmenting the voxel by voxel differences relative to a specified significance threshold quantifying the volume of voxels that exceed an established degree or amount of change and or producing colorized parametric response maps of one or more tissue regions that exhibit significant change. Embodiments of the present disclosure may include more fewer or different steps. In some embodiments standard non quantitative images such as standard MRI using conventional whole tissue volume statistical approaches for example but not limited to mean median skewness percentile kurtosis Kullback Leibler quantiles standard deviation etc. may be used to create a parametric response map after the images have been normalized in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure.

Various voxel classification schemes are contemplated and within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the classification scheme can include color coded voxels of the processed images that form the PRM. For example in some cases the classification system may include color coded voxels representing an increase of a given parameter that may be colored red for example a decrease in a given parameter that may be colored blue for example and or no change in a particular parameter that may be colored green for example. It will be understood that the color coding scheme could be any suitable color coding scheme and may employ any suitable or desirable colors. Further in other embodiments other systems for assigning a classification to individual voxels is possible for example instead of using colors varying shades of gray may be used to denote different classifications different geometric shapes could be used for example open circles and closed circles or any other suitable method for denoting differences between individual voxels on a parametric response map may be used. Additionally more than three parameters may be signaled on a PRM on a voxel by voxel basis. For example instead of red indicating an increase in a parameter two or more different colors could be used where each color indicates a set range of increase in the given parameter.

While some examples provided herein disclose the collection of two images it is also contemplated and within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure that multiple images may be collected and used to generate a PRM.

The image data may be collected from an external imaging system in communication with a processor based PTM system e.g. connected through wired or wireless connections. In other examples the PRM system may be embedded with a medical imaging system for example a CT system MRI system etc. An example computer system for executing the PRM techniques described herein is provided in discussed further below.

Generally the PRM system includes an image collector engine that receives and stores the medical images and a deformation registration engine that takes the images and performs a linear or deformable registration of serial images. The deformation registration engine provides a set of tissue specific parameters for tailoring the engine to register images of that tissue where these parameters may represent physical characteristics of the tissue e.g. general shape position expected volume changes between physiological states swelling due to edema in the case of muscle tissue deformation due to contraction or atrophy and or changes in tissue due to tissue strain and elasticity tests to assess distensibility . The image registration can be achieved using nonlinear deformable algorithms in some embodiments to provide for higher degrees of freedom needed to align the images together. In examples where tissue volume or position changes occur between serial medical images deformation may be performed as part of the registration which includes scaling of at least one image data or portions thereof.

After registration a voxel analysis engine examines the combined registered image data from the registration engine to perform a classification on the image data. The analysis engine for example determines signal intensity change across medical images on a voxel by voxel basis for the image data. The size of the region of interest ROI may be determined manually e.g. by contouring over the analyzed tissue or may be generated automatically by the medical imaging system or in other embodiments may be determined by a combination of manual and automatic techniques. In addition to determining signal intensity changes within each voxel the analysis engine can also identify the relative volumes of the signal changes and the location of the changed and the unchanged voxels. While conventional ways of measuring registered data sets can be used e.g. the mean of the Jacobian or dissimilarity measures based on the histograms of the CT images where information from the measure is pooled throughout the tissue of interest into a single outcome measure the measurements forfeit spatial information. Each individual voxel is a volume in 3D space that corresponds to a location in the tissue. Therefore in some embodiments the analysis engine retains the spatial information by classifying voxels into discrete groups that can be analyzed as a global metric for example.

In some embodiments the voxel analysis engine is configured to perform tissue analysis on only a portion of the registered image data for example a particular tissue region or tissue sub type. In such examples the analysis engine may perform image isolation to filter out image data not corresponding to the tissue region or sub type of interest. The registration process of the present disclosure in some embodiments may be accomplished automatically manually or may be a combination of automatic and manual processes.

In some embodiments the methods disclosed herein may be used to predict tissue or disease evolution of people with brain tumors based upon detected and quantified changes in MRI fluid attenuated inversion recovery imaging FLAIR and contrast enhanced Gd DTPA T1 weighted images. Therapeutic management diagnostic surgical postoperative and post therapeutic stages of tumors and especially of gliomas remains a challenge. Even with advancements in the clinical management of cancer patients assessment of recurrence in tumors with their inherent heterogeneous enhancement growth patterns and irregular nature continues to be difficult to assess. The standard clinical practice for evaluating progression relies on late or serial changes in traditional non volumetric tumor measurements performed using images acquired on CT or MRI. With new efficacious treatment options being developed there is a critical need for a quick and accurate method for determining tumor progression.

Gliomas continue to be the most common form of brain malignancy in adult patients. Monitoring glioma changes by MRI is now the technique of first choice for assessing therapeutic response and recurrence. Lately new standardized glioma response to treatment criteria have been published by the Response Assessment in Neuro Oncology Working Group RANO . These new criteria took a step forward compared to the previous standard of care MacDonald s criteria by using in addition to the anatomical T1 weighted post contrast images CE T1w a secondary endpoint based on changes in the fluid attenuated inversion recovery images FLAIR to delineate brain tumor. RANO recommendations highlight the fact that future developments of new early imaging biomarkers will be highly conditioned by both i the development and the integration of new images to monitor the physiological response of gliomas to therapies and ii the implementation of new tools to analyze quantify and interpret not only one but multiple MR parameters anatomical and or physiological simultaneously.

Quantitative imaging has been shown to compliment standard anatomical imaging techniques. Although promising as a surrogate biomarker of recurrence monitoring the percent change of a metric obtained through whole tumor summary statistics e.g. mean and median values continues to be the standard approach for evaluating the efficacy of quantitative MR metrics as biomarkers of therapeutic response. Although this technique has been successfully used in oncology it has limitations. An important limit of this approach is that the mean value cannot quantify heterogeneities present in gliomas on MR images and as such attenuates the sensitivity of the metric at identifying tumor recurrence. In contrast embodiments of methods described herein may to improve the accuracy of the metric at diagnosing progression in the presence of tumor heterogeneity during treatment. In addition this method is applicable to imaging techniques commonly used for assessing progression by volumetric and non volumetric changes in tumors.

Methods of the present disclosure were demonstrated in a cohort of 14 glioma patients and compared to standard MRI based criteria of clinical progression. The fourteen patients with pathologically proven grade III IV gliomas were enrolled on a protocol of intra treatment MRI. MRI scans were performed before and during treatment every 2 months until tumor recurrence was identified by Macdonald Criteria. All images were acquired on 1.5T or 3T MRI scanners. The MR1 protocol included fluid attenuated inversion recovery imaging FLAIR and contrast enhanced Gd DTPA T1 weighted imaging. To avoid variability between scanners subjects used the original scanner for all subsequent scans.

Subsequent to voxel based analysis FLAIR images were normalized to the mean signal intensity of white matter tracks rFLAIR . All image data was registered to pre treatment Gd enhanced T1 weighted images using mutual information as an objective function and Nelder Mead simplex as an optimizer. Automatic registration of different and similar weighted serial MRI scans for the same patient was performed assuming a rigid body geometry relationship. Following registration brain tumors VO1s were manually contoured by a neuro radiologist over the enhancing region of the tumor on the Gd enhanced T1 weighted images.

Voxel based analysis was accomplished by collating the difference between the rFLAIR rFLAIR rFLAIR t T1 t where t is time and i is an index for each voxel within the whole brain volume at each longitudinal follow up scan using the baseline as the subtrahend. Baseline was defined as either the pre treatment or subsequent rFLAIR image. Individual voxels were stratified into three categories based on the change of rFLAIR relative to baseline rFLAIR maps. Red voxels represented volume within the brain where rFLAIR value increased beyond a predetermined user defined rFLAIR threshold blue voxels represent volumes whose rFLAIR decreased by more than the defined threshold and the green voxels represent voxels within the tumor that were unchanged that is the absolute value of rFLAIR was within the defined thresholds of significant change . Disease recurrence was defined by voxel based metrics as the sum of red voxels that exceed a percentage i.e. here tested at 20 of the tumor volume as delineated on T1w Gd.

These results show that the voxel based PRM approach of embodiments of the present disclosure provide for the early detection and spatial depiction of brain tumor progression prior to detection by currently available conventional MRI based criteria.

While embodiments have been described with regard to use for determining and or predicting the evolution of brain tumors other extensions of this invention include applications using many other weighted image data types such as but not limited to T1 T2 proton density images FLAIR and STIR inversion recovery pulses metabolite specific images pulsed gradient spin echo images PGSE oscillating gradient spin echo OGSE etc. for MRI that when normalized are used to monitor changes associated from a multitude of disease types and across all tissue types over time. Normalized data generated from other medical imaging devices e.g. optical CT X Ray PET and SPECT are also applicable.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media and both removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM FLASH memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media.

Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and cursor control device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a graphics controller . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in hospitals offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. In the illustrated example the remote computer is a medical imaging device such as a CT scanning device PET scanning device MRI device SPECT device etc. While a single remote computer is shown the LAN and or WAN may be connected to any number of remote computers. The remote computers may be independently functioning for example where the computer serves as a master and a plurality of different slave computers e.g. each functioning as a different medical imaging device are coupled thereto. In such centralized environments the computer may provide one or both of an image processing module and a tissue classification diagnostic module for a group of remote processors where the image processing module may include an image collector engine and a deformation registration engine and the tissue classification diagnostic module may include a voxel analysis engine. In other examples the computer and a plurality of remote computers operate in a distributed processing manner where imaging processing module and tissue classification diagnostic module are performed in a distributed manner across different computers. In some embodiments the remote computers and the computer may be part of a cloud computing environment over the WAN for example in which image processing and tissue classification diagnostic services are the result of shared resources software and information collected from and push to each of the computers. In this way the remote computers and the computer may operate as terminals to access and display data including tissue classification diagnostics tissue phasic classification delivered to the computers through the networking infrastructure and more specifically shared network resources forming the cloud. 

It is noted that one or more of the remote computers may function as a remote database or data center sharing data to and from the computer .

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . The communications connections allow the device to communicate with other devices. The communications connections are an example of communication media.

The methods for analyzing a sample region of a body to determine the state of the tissue which may include analyzing tissue for the purpose of diagnosis assessing pathology assessing response to treatment etc. described above may be implemented in part or in their entirety using one or more computer systems such as the computer system illustrated in .

Some or all calculations performed in the tissue characterization determination may be performed by a computer such as the computer and more specifically may be performed by a processor such as the processing unit for example. In some embodiments some calculations may be performed by a first computer such as the computer while other calculations may be performed by one or more other computers such as the remote computer as noted above. The calculations may be performed according to instructions that are part of a program such as the application programs the application programs and or the remote application programs for example. Such functions including i collecting image data from a medical imaging device either connected remotely to the device or formed as part of the computer system ii rigid body and or deformably registering in an image processing module such collected image data to produce a co registered image data comprising a plurality of voxels iii determining in the image processing module changes in signal values for each of the plurality of voxels for the co registered image data between a first phase state and the second phase state iv forming in a tissue state diagnostic module a tissue classification mapping data of the changes in signal values from the co registered image data wherein the mapping data includes the changes in signal values segmented by the first phase state and the second phase state v performing in the tissue state diagnostic module a threshold analysis of the mapping data to segment the mapping data into at least one region indicating the presence of the tissue state condition and at least one region indicating the non presence of the tissue state condition and vi analyzing the threshold analysis of the mapping data to determine the presence of the tissue state condition in the sample region.

Relevant data may be stored in the ROM memory and or the RAM memory for example. In some embodiments such data is sent over a network such as the local area network or the wide area network to another computer such as the remote computer . In some embodiments the data is sent over a video interface such as the video interface to display information relating to the tissue state condition to an output device such as the monitor or the printer for example. In other examples the data is stored on a disc or disk drive such as or respectively.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the description. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Still further the figures depict preferred embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the discussion herein that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Upon reading this disclosure those skilled in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for identifying terminal road segments through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

