---

title: Automatic package delivery and retrieval system
abstract: Described herein are an automatic package delivery and retrieval apparatus, system and method. The automatic package delivery and retrieval includes a Package Delivery Kiosk (PDK), associated front end and back end package delivery management systems, portals for the consumer and the retailer, portals for the common carrier, sender, and recipient, a package inventory management system, integrated retailer access, a real and automated retailer bidding system and a kiosk for distribution. In one embodiment, a system for automated package retrieval and delivery includes a kiosk, package retrieval apparatus, and various computing systems for running the systems. A method for providing packages to customers includes providing a notification with a code to a user that a package is available for retrieval. The method includes storing a package in the kiosk. The method further includes receiving the code from a user at the kiosk and retrieving the package with the automatic retrieval mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08857709&OS=08857709&RS=08857709
owner: Flextronics AP, LLC
number: 08857709
owner_city: Broomfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120731
---
This application is related to co pending application entitled ROBOTIC PACKAGE LIFTING ASSEMBLY AND METHOD having Ser. No. 13 563 158 filed concurrently herewith co pending application entitled SHELVING AND KIOSK SYSTEM having Ser. No. 13 563 255 filed concurrently herewith co pending application entitled ON DEMAND KIOSK COMMERCE SYSTEM AND METHOD having Ser. No. 13 563 361 filed concurrently herewith and co pending application entitled PACKAGE DELIVERY KIOSK INCLUDING INTEGRATED ROBOTIC PACKAGE LIFTING ASSEMBLY WITH SHELVING SYSTEM having Ser. No. 13 563 410 filed concurrently herewith the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The cost associated with operating a physical store front or delivering packages via mail or other package delivery common carriers is a significant expense of doing business. The last mile of delivery of packages is many times a large percentage of the expense of delivery especially as compared to the total distance a package travels. In some cases individuals living in apartment type dwellings can only receive packages if they are there to physically sign for them. Considering the hours of delivery and the hours most people work home delivery is therefore impossible. In this case the resident must go to a post office or other depot during business hours. This provides for similar difficulty.

Increasingly consumers desire immediate satisfaction of orders and purchases. In order to do so they request express shipping at some cost or go to a physical store front. When going to a physical store front the consumer may not feel as though they are getting the best prices so they may be reluctant to purchase. Consumers may return home and search on Internet shopping sites in order to obtain the best price. Also the store may not be open or may be far away. In such case they delay acquisition of the item of interest.

Therefore when customers receive or purchase a package but delivery to the home or pickup at a human operated site are impracticable an automatic pickup system and location is needed.

Described herein are an automatic package delivery and retrieval apparatus system and method. The automatic package delivery and retrieval may include a Package Delivery Kiosk PDK associated front end and back end package delivery management systems portals for the consumer and the retailer portals for the common carrier sender and recipient a package inventory management system integrated retailer access a real and automated retailer bidding system and a kiosk for distribution. In one embodiment a system for automated package retrieval and delivery includes a kiosk package retrieval apparatus and various computing systems for running the systems. A method for providing packages to customers includes providing a notification to a user that a package is available for retrieval the notification including a code. The method further includes storing a package in a kiosk the kiosk including an automatic retrieval mechanism. The method further includes receiving the code from a user at the kiosk and retrieving the package for the user with the automatic retrieval mechanism.

Certain terminology is used herein for convenience only and is not to be taken as a limitation on the embodiments of a system for automated package retrieval and delivery. In the drawings the same reference letters are employed for designating the same elements throughout the several figures.

The words right left front and back designate directions in the drawings to which reference is made. The words inwardly and outwardly refer to directions toward and away from respectively the geometric center of the case with flexible body portion and designated parts thereof. The terminology includes the words above specifically mentioned derivatives thereof and words of similar import. The drawings are proportional.

Like reference numerals designate like or corresponding parts throughout the various views and with particular reference to each of the figures as delineated below.

For a common carrier package delivery system when a user is scheduled to receive a package but delivery is impracticable for various reasons a user receives a notification of the pending delivery. Reasons that a delivery may be impracticable may be that the common carrier has established that it cannot safely deliver a package without a person to physically receive it the common carrier has made repeated attempts at delivery the person lives in an apartment complex the package requires signature or a variety of other reasons. The common carrier may then generate a notice to the user that a package is available for pick up at a kiosk. This is more convenient for the user since the kiosk may have unlimited operating hours nearby kiosks may be available and less expensive for the common carrier since employees are not constantly required to service customers. The notification of pending delivery may come in the form of a paper delivered notice via U.S. mail or other common carrier an electronic notification such as email Short Message Service SMS or telephone call. This notice may include authentication information for the user to pickup the package or information on how to obtain authentication information. The user may be required to visit a website or physical storefront and provide information i.e. personal information and identification to receive the authentication information.

The user may then go to the area kiosk that stores the user s package. Kiosks may be located to provide for convenient package retrieval. Optionally once a user registers for package delivery the user may specify which of the area kiosks the user wishes to receive packages at.

At the kiosk a touch screen interface greets the user and the user provides the authentication information including for example a personal pin code a web code or other code identifying the package. The kiosk confirms that the package is available using the system software installed on the kiosk. The kiosk cross references the codes provided to ensure authentication. The kiosk additionally may have cameras to record images of the user that accesses the kiosk. Additionally the kiosk may have automatic finger print storage and may image fingerprints as the user touches the screen of the interface. As alternatives other types of interfaces may be used including those utilizing keyboards rollerballs or other interfaces.

The customer then provides a signature to receive the package. This may be optional. If the customer ceases to provide input or signature then the system may be configured to time out and return to the initial screen. Optionally the security camera may be configured to detect when a user leaves the interface and automatically timeouts upon such an occurrence. Optionally the security camera may simply take one or a number of pictures during the interaction.

After the entire required authentication has been achieved the kiosk system may retrieve the package and deliver it to the outlet system for the user to obtain through a slot or other delivery area.

The system further includes an operation procedure for an operator common carrier . The system may be configured to track which packages in the kiosk have been resident for an extended period of time. The kiosk may automatically sort these packages into a predefined area in the kiosk and their dead status reported.

The machine may then be accessed by the operator. During preferably a non busy time the operator may enter a special code into the touch screen interface providing for access to the packages and system. The kiosk may then automatically unlock itself or the operator may unlock another manual lock. A maintenance screen is displayed and the system becomes inactive. The operator may then retrieve dead packages either from a dedicated area or according to information provided by the interface. New packages may be then inserted by size and bar code identifying information. The operator then confirms the completion of package exchange using the touch screen and in some cases locking the kiosk. The kiosk confirms that a successful package exchange and lock has been made and then begins to process each package.

The kiosk system then reads the bar code from each package and stores the identifying information and location of the package. In some cases the kiosk may then proceed to relocate packages. The kiosk can send tracking notification to a central server indicating that a package is available for pickup. The central server may then contact related systems and print notifications for the customer to be delivered or sent via email or other electronic communications to the customer.

The kiosk system provides 24 hour seven day a week package pickup in a secure environment. It eliminates the delivery cost to the end customer and multiple delivery attempts when the package can not be left at the destination site. The system confirms delivery and captures signature picture optional . It provides complete tracking of the package to point of delivery possession. The kiosk and retrieval system can offer 2 or better space advantage over less secure locker boxes

The USPS Driver Interface may provide the user access to the package for retrieval. This interface provides for the entering of the identification information for the package and the user request for packages or other information. Although this is labeled USPS it may be for any common carrier.

Administration driver provides for access to the kiosk for cleaning and testing functions loading and unloading and reconfiguration features. The kiosk includes a robotic package retrieving apparatus and a number of package slots. As described herein an operator may come to change out dead packages and add new packages. Further the package slots may be periodically reconfigured and therefore the operator may provide information to the system concerning the new location of slots. The operator may then initiate an alignment procedure where the robotic package retrieving system also know as a Robotic Package Lifting Assembly RPLA attempts to align with the newly entered slots. The operator may then observe the RPLA and register if any alignments are off.

Out of order interface provides for an out of order signal to users and operators. This interface does not provide for access for package retrieval however it may provide for diagnosis information and access for the operator.

Customer GUI and USPS Driver communicate with data transport layer . Customer GUI provides for access via the Internet. Data transport layer may communicate with reporting server . Reporting server may report the pickup of a package by either directing digital messaging or mail messaging. Digital messaging may be accomplished through notification agent or email server . Notification agent or email server may send emails SMS messages or any other type of electronic message to the package sender recipient and the operator common carrier as required by protocol and preferences.

Kiosk may include core queues and other data queues . These queues may track the location resident time pickup information and other information concerning the resident packages and overall performance of the system.

The user interfaces of the kiosk may be controlled by a number of touch screen modules. These modules may include virtual vending control board which provides control of the package selection process virtual card reader which provides for scanning of credit cards and other cards virtual bar code reader which provides for scanning of bar codes associated with package pickups and virtual pin pad which provides for a virtual pin pad for entering a pin. These provide for virtualizations that allow a user to navigate the kiosk.

A number of hardware plug ins are also included to assist in the control of the system including card reader plug in for reading cards security camera plug in for operating and interfacing with the security camera barcode reader for use with the RPLA label printer for print labels for dropped off packages directional pin pad plug in for controlling the operation and display of the pin pad call modem vending control board for controlling the RPLA and barcode reader external for providing external barcode reading functions.

The kiosk system may also include a management console for the client and a remote desktop server . The management console provides for control through management console client . A client may use a remote desktop client connected to a remote desktop server to access the kiosk . These may be accessible through a Web browser for example an Internet Explorer interface and may include software for generating retrieval keys to the kiosk using module .

Through data transport various systems may report to SQL server which serves as the primary repository of information for the kiosk and related systems. The backend servers and may provide for Web access to users and operators through the Web code backend application programming interface . Further information about the performance and history of the kiosk may be stored and reported to SQL server and accessible through IIS and system administration . Reports concerning the performance may be produced through the reports module including reports on sales information marketing information inventory information maintenance information and user information .

If the package is found yes the package is prefetched in that the RPLA may align with the package location . A request for the user to scan their id is requested . This may be a license or other preapproved identification. The validity of the id is determined . If the id is not valid no the system will request a rescan . If the id is valid yes it is determined whether the recipient name matches the id provided . If the name does not match no the user will be prompted that the name does not match . Some systems may permissively allow non matching users access. In the alternative no access may be provided. In the alternative a pin may be required as well. If the name does match yes the user is informed of package retrieval . The user is requested to take the package . It is determined whether the user took the package . If the user did take the package yes the system terminates in a thank you . If the user fails to take the package no the system provides an error message .

In some embodiments the kiosk may be additionally configured for sending packages. In this case the user will indicate using the touch screen interface information concerning the package. The kiosk may print a bar code for attachment to the package. The user may then insert the package and the RPLA will retrieve the package and place the package in a slot reserved for packages to be sent. The user may then provide payment information and complete the transaction. During regular drop off and pickup of packages the operator will retrieve the package and carry out the delivery. Alternatively the user may print the bar code information from a home computer and affix it to the package prior to visiting a kiosk site. The common carrier may offer a discount to the user for such a service since the common carrier will potentially save on home pickup costs and physical storefront costs. In some embodiments the kiosk may additionally include a slot that includes a scale for package weighing functions for determination of shipping costs.

The user may follow tracking information concerning the package pickup from the kiosk and eventual delivery to the destination. Upon deposit the kiosk may generate an expected delivery time and date based on kiosk pickup times and standard delivery models. This may provide the user additional flexibility over traditional models since the user may access the kiosk at any time of the day.

In general a method for providing packages to customers includes providing a notification to a user that a package is available for retrieval. The notification may include a code. The method further includes storing a package in a kiosk the kiosk including an automatic retrieval mechanism. The method further includes receiving the code from a user at the kiosk and retrieving the package for the user with the automatic retrieval mechanism.

Optionally the method further includes authenticating the user prior to retrieving the package. In one alternative the authenticating includes scanning a personal identification card of the user. Optionally authenticating includes receiving a pin from the user. In one configuration the notification is a notice received in the mail. In another configuration the notification includes the code and the code is a scannable code and the receiving the code includes scanning the scannable code on the notification.

Optionally the user may sign up for kiosk delivery of packages from a common carrier as an alternative to home delivery. In one configuration the kiosk is located in a location where it is accessible to users 24 hours a day.

Optionally the automatic retrieval mechanism is a RPLA located inside the kiosk and the kiosk includes a plurality of shelves the plurality of shelves having a plurality of slots. Alternatively the location of a package in a slot of the plurality of slots is stored in a computing system. The code is associated with the package. Optionally when the package is stored in the kiosk for greater than a set period of time it is considered dead and the RPLA retrieves the package and places the package in a slot of the plurality of slots reserved for dead packages for retrieval and removal.

In one embodiment a system for providing automated retrieval of packages to a user includes a kiosk where packages may be delivered to the kiosk by a carrier. The kiosk includes an automatic retrieval mechanism a touch screen interface and a computing system for controlling the touch screen interface and automatic retrieval mechanism. The system further includes a notification provided to the user. The notification provides a code for the user to enter at the touch screen interface the code activating the automatic retrieval mechanism and retrieving a package for the user.

Optionally the automatic retrieval mechanism is a RPLA located inside the kiosk. The kiosk includes a plurality of shelves having a plurality of slots and the location of a package in a slot of the plurality of slots is stored in a computing system. The code is associated with the package. In one configuration when the package is stored in the kiosk for greater than a set period of time it is considered dead and the RPLA retrieves the package and places the package in a slot of the plurality of slots reserved for dead packages for retrieval and removal.

Optionally the computing system includes a plurality of modules configured to report package pickups and availability to a reporting server. Alternatively the plurality of modules is configured to control a security camera situated at the kiosk. In one alternative the plurality of modules is configured to provide access to information concerning the kiosk to a user utilizing the Internet. In another alternative the plurality of modules is configured to provide a menu driven graphical user interface to the user for retrieving packages. The interface configured to provide for scanning procedures of the code and scanning procedures of an user identification. Optionally the plurality of modules is configured to receive information concerning the package location and package identification from the RPLA. The RPLA may provide the package location by encoding the position of packages in the plurality of slots and scanning a bar code on each of the packages.

While specific embodiments have been described in detail in the foregoing detailed description and illustrated in the accompanying drawings it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure and the broad inventive concepts thereof. It is understood therefore that the scope of this disclosure is not limited to the particular examples and implementations disclosed herein but is intended to cover modifications within the spirit and scope thereof as defined by the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof. Note that although particular embodiments are shown features of each may be interchanged between embodiments.

