---

title: Method and apparatus for ad-hoc content sharing
abstract: An approach is provided for discovering proximity-based and/or location-based services over an ad-hoc network. A request to share at least one content item from at least one device is determined. Further, one or more compressed representations of the at least one content item are generated, where the one or more compressed representations include at least one link for retrieving the at least one content item. Furthermore, the one or more compressed representations are broadcast in one or more broadcast messages over an ad-hoc network to one or more other devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100989&OS=09100989&RS=09100989
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09100989
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20121231
---
Wireless e.g. cellular service providers and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services applications and content. One area of development is users sharing content among devices in close proximity. However technical challenges relating to establishing a communication session power consumption signaling overhead security and privacy have hindered such development.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for broadcasting and receiving messages for content sharing among devices via an ad hoc network.

According to one embodiment a method comprises determining a request to share at least one content item from at least one device. The method also comprises causing at least in part a generation of one or more compressed representations of the at least one content item the one or more compressed representations including at least one link for retrieving the at least one content item. Further the method also comprises causing at least in part a broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations in one or more broadcast messages over an ad hoc network to one or more other devices.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine a request to share at least one content item from at least one device. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a generation of one or more compressed representations of the at least one content item the one or more compressed representations including at least one link for retrieving the at least one content item. Further the apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations in one or more broadcast messages over an ad hoc network to one or more other devices.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a request to share at least one content item from at least one device. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a generation of one or more compressed representations of the at least one content item the one or more compressed representations including at least one link for retrieving the at least one content item. Further the apparatus is also caused to cause at least in part a broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations in one or more broadcast messages over an ad hoc network to one or more other devices.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining a request to share at least one content item from at least one device. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a generation of one or more compressed representations of the at least one content item the one or more compressed representations including at least one link for retrieving the at least one content item. Further the apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations in one or more broadcast messages over an ad hoc network to one or more other devices.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on including derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing any of the methods disclosed herein.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A method and apparatus for broadcasting and receiving messages for content sharing among devices via an ad hoc network. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term awareness information refers to any content information and or context about a local environment as well as the users and communication devices within the local environment. By way of example awareness information can be used to support applications for creating social networks determining presence determining contexts associated with a device sharing content advertising searching for information etc. Although various embodiments are described with respect to communities over an ad hoc network it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used within any type of communication system or network. Further a wireless node or a node may be any device and or user equipment capable of wireless communication with other devices and or user equipment directly and or via one or more available wireless networks.

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as application including social networking web browser multimedia applications user interface UI map application web client etc. to communicate with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include awareness services module also collectively referred to as AS module for detecting and or forming an ad hoc network for sharing awareness information with other UEs . In one embodiment the UEs may include D2D radio layer also collectively referred to as D2D radio layer utilized in formation of the ad hoc network and sharing of awareness information see discussion of the D2D radio layer in below. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing sharing and or forwarding one or more content information items to other UEs and or components of the system .

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more databases also collectively referred to as database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include various service providers offering a range of services for example online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like.

In one embodiment the UEs may form the ad hoc network for sharing awareness information. The ad hoc network is for instance a connectionless and serverless device to device network e.g. a mobile ad hoc network MANET created using short range radio technology e.g. wireless local area network WLAN Bluetooth etc. Within the ad hoc network each UE may be mobile and within communication range of any number of other UEs . Accordingly the set of UEs which may be within communication range of any other UEs is transient and can change as the UEs move from location to location and or in and out of the communication range. In one embodiment a user may connect to or disconnect from the ad hoc network on demand.

As discussed previously service providers and device manufacturers that are developing communication systems and networks for providing awareness information face many technical challenges. For example current ad hoc radios e.g. WLAN and Bluetooth are designed for connectivity e.g. connectivity via Internet protocol IP . However in an always on environment such as the ad hoc network may not be practical to have a large number of UEs e.g. mobile handset devices connected by for instance IP to each other for extended periods of time because of power usage and scalability problems. Specifically a multi hop connection in a large ad hoc network typically requires a significant amount of control signaling and power and can quickly deplete a mobile device s battery. Moreover scalability can be a problem because current ad hoc radios are typically limited in the number of connections and the related signaling that they can support at any given time. Another shortcoming of current ad hoc radios is that they do not adequately protect a user s privacy because they expose the user s identity through a fixed network address e.g. a media access control MAC address associated with the user s device.

To address these problems the system provides a method for establishing the ad hoc network for sharing awareness information in a connectionless fashion. As used herein the term connectionless refers to the ability of a node e.g. a UE to send to and receive from all surrounding nodes e.g. other UEs awareness information without the need to send any prior control signaling. For example sending awareness information using the transmission control protocol IP TCP IP over a WLAN ad hoc is not connectionless because of the two way TCP control signaling between the sending and receiving nodes used to establish the TCP connection. The awareness information is provided for instance in small anonymous messages that are exchanged by the UEs automatically without or with minimal user setup and or intervention. As used herein the term anonymous means that it is not possible to infer the true identity of the sender from the message unless the true identity is intentionally included in the message e.g. by the user or another entity authorized by the user . The exchange of awareness information occurs as a broadcast message i.e. a flooding message from a UE to neighboring UEs that are within range of the radio of the broadcasting UE . As neighboring UEs receive the broadcasted message each receiving UE may in turn rebroadcast the message to other neighboring UEs . In this way the originally broadcasted message may propagate e.g. hop throughout the ad hoc network . In various embodiments the extent of the propagation may be limited by criteria such as distance location time user preference etc.

In an ad hoc network traditionally the messages may be utilized for carrying small sized awareness information messages among the UEs . However within the system content items e.g. sample indicator files of compressed media containing voice video images etc. may also be broadcast via the messages among the between UEs . Further the messages may also contain pointers to the content or a small amount of data e.g. presence or context information to minimize the data traffic transported over the ad hoc network . The UEs may then access the content using other communication channels e.g. via IP through the communication network . In addition the system eliminates the problems associated with traditional methods for route establishment and maintenance e.g. connection based communication protocols such as maintaining and handing off connections as mobile devices move and requiring high levels of network resources for maintaining connections in an environment with a high number or density of mobile devices. For example the event of a UE appearing disappearing to from the network does not generate any control signaling in the ad hoc network . Similarly the system creates routing information only when needed to route replies to queries back to the querying UE. The routing information is generated by using the query messages alone i.e. no control signaling is used for creating routing information . After the query and subsequent reply process is completed the routes are forgotten. In other words the query reply process of system provisions routes for a reply to provide awareness information on demand rather than pushing awareness information from one UE to another. In various embodiments both push e.g. information is published over the ad hoc network and pull e.g. information is queried from other UEs of the ad hoc network modes of disseminating awareness information are possible. In certain embodiments it is contemplated that the pull mode of operation can be used instead of the push mode to help suppress potential spam messages.

Moreover the system optimizes the power consumption of UEs communicating over the ad hoc network to enable always on operation without seriously affecting the battery life of the UEs . For instance by utilizing only short awareness messages by eliminating the need for any route maintenance signaling by employing procedures to minimize transmission and reception of duplicative messages and by enabling an efficient sleep scheme for the short range device to device radio used within each UE allowed by the low latency requirements typical of an awareness information network the system can potentially provide hundreds of hours e.g. over 400 hours of continuous operation of each UE between battery charges in a mobile device. The system could be seen as a nervous system between the mobile devices where small messages nerve impulses are continuously exchanged by the mobile devices neurons in order to bring awareness to the user of a mobile device about the user s surroundings e.g. content information status etc. 

The system also enables the development of new services and applications based on awareness information e.g. social networking applications location based applications application for determining presence applications for determining context advertising applications . In particular the continuous and immediate nature of the awareness information with respect to local environment enables compelling new services. For instance awareness information may be combined with the increasingly available storage and computing power in mobile devices e.g. UEs to create a local semantic web whereby local awareness information is created and searched for automatically by the UEs within the ad hoc network . As used herein the term semantic web refers to a system in which the information and messages shared with the system is understandable by the UE within the system. It is noted that establishing such a local semantic web using the system overcomes two major problems blocking the development of a global semantic web 1 lack of mechanism for providing semantic content on a large scale and 2 lack of semantically aware search engines to help users find information in a semantic web. The system can also be used for collaborative context calculation publishing pointers to information or content search for friends within a defined community finding out what is going on and what kind of people are around a user making the environment aware of the user and other like applications.

In various embodiments and use case scenarios users may realize advantages and benefits of the system when sharing awareness information via an ad hoc network with an easy device discovery and sharing process and no additional costs to the user.

In one use case scenario the system provides the capability to initiate content sharing with one or more individuals and or groups over the ad hoc network . For example a user has a content item e.g. picture music etc. that he would like to share with neighboring users over the ad hoc network. In another example supporters of a football team form a fan club community group over the ad hoc network wherein the community members can send short text messages e.g. of small enough size to be sent directly over the ad hoc network that can be received and read only by the community members of that particular team. In another example a user may wish to share pictures of a party with a certain group of people via the ad hoc network wherein the user provides a key e.g. via other messaging means to the group so that they may be able to access and view the pictures.

In one use case scenario an application via an ad hoc network enables locally targeted advertising and couponing. For example a user is in a book music store where wireless nodes e.g. a kiosk a listening post etc. in the store broadcast small samples of music and audio book readings via an ad hoc network whereby the user may listen to the samples and via a user interface on a UE select one or more of the content samples e.g. icons for receiving additional samples or information about the selections. In one example the user may choose to receive e.g. rent purchase etc. the entire content item via an available network capable of delivering the selected content item. In one example the store may offer a discount if a user listens to the content samples and then decides to purchase the actual content items. In another example a user uses a UE to download or capture an image video of a point of interest POI e.g. a lake house an antique automobile etc. which he wishes to share with other users via an ad hoc network. In another example a user wishes to share a document including interesting quotes and facts that he just discovered in his content library.

In one use case scenario an application provides proximity based location based or context based services using awareness information. For example a UE may not have positioning capabilities but nonetheless knows that it is in a shopping mall based on anonymous awareness information from other nearby UE and or wireless nodes. It is contemplated that an establishment e.g. a store may also utilize a wireless node e.g. a UE a kiosk an advertising module etc. to provide context information possibly combined with other establishment specific information such as the address of the establishment s web address. The UE may then remind the user to Remember to buy a gift for your mom s birthday based on the user s location in the mall and an event reminder associated with the user. The awareness information can also be physical position information from a neighboring UE that has positioning capability wherein the positioning information from the UE may enable a UE without such capability to offer navigational services.

In one embodiment the system determines a request to share at least one content item from at least one device. In one embodiment the AS module may receive the request from a user via a UI option at a UE indicating that the user wishes to share one or more content items. For example a user may wish to share a picture he just captured on his UE . In one embodiment the AS module may receive the request via the application at the UE which for example may be based on contextual information location information trigger conditions and the like. For example the application may prompt to share one or more coupons available on a UE with other UEs when the UE is at a particular location e.g. at a restaurant at a particular time e.g. during lunch with particular group of users e.g. any students and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a generation of one or more compressed representations of the at least one content item the one or more compressed representations including at least one link for retrieving the at least one content item. In one embodiment the AS module and or the application may generate a compressed representation e.g. a summary a small number of bytes of data etc. of the content item available for sharing wherein the compressed representation may include a sample an indicator contextual information content type content metadata and the like whereby a recipient of the compressed representation may be able to ascertain at least some information associated with the content item available for sharing. For example only a small section of an audio content item e.g. an audio fragment a wave form etc. may be included or a picture may be highly minimized or a sample of a textual content may be shown as simple text etc.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations in one or more broadcast messages over an ad hoc network to one or more other devices. In one embodiment the AS module of a UE may generate one or more messages including one or more compressed representations of one or more content items for broadcast via an ad hoc network to one or more other UEs for example from a source device to one or more target destination devices. In one embodiment the AS module may generate the messages in conjunction with the application wherein the application may determine one or more components of the compressed representations.

In one embodiment the ad hoc network operates in a low power mode of the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof and wherein the retrieving of the at least one content item operates in a higher power mode of the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the UEs participating in an ad hoc network may broadcast and or receive one or more compressed representations while the UEs operate in a lower power mode for example transmit in low power mode in order to save battery power maintain a low interference with other transmissions control broadcast range and the like. For example in a low power operating mode the ad hoc network may allow continuous broadcasting and reception of messages by the UEs in time synchronized connectionless manner as depicted in and in discussion of without significant effect on the battery life time. Further in one embodiment the UEs may operate in a higher power mode when transmitting and or receiving the one or more shared content items via the ad hoc network. For example in a higher power mode the UEs may operate in a more conventional way of using peer to peer wireless radio in a connection oriented mode where the content is typically transferred using IP between the UEs . In one embodiment the AS module may facilitate the transmission and or the reception via one or more other available networks e.g. WLAN Bluetooth NFC cellular etc. that may be capable of e.g. more power better bandwidth more efficient etc. receiving and retransmitting the one or more shared content items. In one embodiment the retrieving is via an Internet Protocol network a cellular network or a combination thereof wherein the IP address of a receiving and or a transmitting UE and a transmitting component e.g. a service provider may be used during the retrieval.

In one embodiment the one or more compressed representations include one or more identification ID codes one or more UI icon codes or a combination thereof associated with the one or more compressed representations the at least one content item or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the AS module of a sharing UE may include and or instead utilize an ID code or a UI icon code to indicate to the receiving UEs as to what a compressed representation and or a content item may actually be wherein the receiving UEs may decode the ID and or UI icon codes e.g. from a library and present the associated information and or icons at the receiving UEs . In one embodiment utilization of the ID and or UI icon codes may provide for more efficient transactions via the ad hoc network for example smaller message size less power for transmission less time on the ad hoc network and the like.

In one embodiment the broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations the at least one content item or a combination thereof is based at least in part on geo location contextual information or a combination thereof associated with the one or more other devices. For example an ad hoc message may indicate that the message may be broadcast within a certain geo location e.g. range or by UEs including certain contextual information associated with the UE and or a user of the UE and the like. In one embodiment the at least one content item is available for sharing in substantially real time. In one embodiment the one or more compressed representations are valid based at least in part on a predetermined duration of time. In one example a user sharing a content item may indicate a short duration wherein the content item may be available valid and or may be transmitted for sharing. In one embodiment one or more parameters of the ad hoc network may allow for content items to be available for sharing for a certain period of time for example to avoid aggregated content on the network which can result higher traffic and power consumption by all devices.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more sharing rules associated with the at least one content item. In one embodiment the AS module and or application on a broadcasting UE a sharing device may determine one or more sharing rules for example from the UE user preferences metadata contextual information of a content to be shared location of the UE a target recipient group any security keys and the like before the content item is broadcast. In one embodiment the AS module and or the application may re determine the sharing rules based on one or more changes updates to the user profile of a sharing device geo location change change in time and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part the broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations based at least in part on the one or more sharing rules. In one embodiment the AS module may determine a broadcast time location device power level and the like.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a generating of the one or more compressed representations based at least in part on one or more types of the at least one content item the at least one device the one or more other devices resource availability at the ad hoc network or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the at least one content item includes an image a video an audio a textual or a combination thereof content item type. In one embodiment the AS module may determine the type of the content item to be shared for example from metadata associated with the content item and further determine a compressed representation based on the type. In one embodiment the application may determine the type of the content to be shared and determine the compressed representation. For example the content to be shared may be an audio file which may need to be sampled for determining an appropriate e.g. audible small size etc. compressed representation. In one embodiment a coarser sample e.g. digitally sampled at a lower rate of the content item e.g. audio image video etc. may be generated for a proper size message in the ad hoc network.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of the one or more compressed representations at the one or more other devices based at least in part on one or more user defined parameters at the one or more other devices. In one embodiment a user may define one or more parameters preferences via the AS module for receiving certain types of messages via the ad hoc network. For example a user may only wish to receive messages related to sports automobiles music books cooking and the like. Further the user may wish to receive messages that are substantially near real time e.g. only a few hops via other UEs that are for a certain interest group e.g. students of a college are from a certain nearby location and the like. In one embodiment the application may determine one or more parameters of a compressed representation in a message for filtering the messages of the ad hoc network based on the user defined parameters user history user preferences and the like.

By way of example the AS module includes three layers an awareness layer a community layer and a network layer . The awareness layer is the highest control layer for sharing awareness information. As shown in the awareness layer includes a control logic and item storage . The control logic for instance provides the logic for creating publishing querying and receiving awareness information over the ad hoc network . The control logic can store the information that it either creates or receives in the item storage . It is contemplated that the item storage may be of sufficient size to store all or a portion of the information that flows through the wireless node over a configurable period of time e.g. days months or years .

In various embodiments the control logic enables querying and dissemination of awareness information by initiating the broadcasting of the query or information to neighboring UEs within the ad hoc network . For example upon receiving a query the UEs in the local neighborhood that have the queried information reply to the querying node automatically. In various embodiments the reply information is also automatically stored in the item storage of each wireless node through which the propagating reply passes. Moreover the reply to a query may result in return of a pointer to specific content relevant to the query rather than the content itself under certain circumstances e.g. when the specific content is large in size . It is contemplated that the reply may contain direct content if the content is relatively small e.g. a few tens of bytes of information . By using a pointer the system minimizes the data traffic that flows through the ad hoc network . The user may then access the content via the pointer e.g. a universal resource locator URL address IP address via a more appropriate communication protocol e.g. IP and or means of communication e.g. infrastructure networks . The receipt of the pointer e.g. IP address may automatically trigger the transfer of the content using for instance the communication protocol associated with the pointer. In the case of broadcasting or publishing information any wireless node through which the published information propagates may store the information in item storage of the wireless node .

In various embodiments awareness information can also be published directly by broadcasting an awareness message. Such a push mode for the dissemination of awareness information can be used to support some applications e.g. advertising or group chatting over the ad hoc network .

It is recognized that privacy and anonymity may be of concern to users of the system . Accordingly the control logic provides mechanisms for ensuring privacy and anonymity. For example the control logic can prevent the transmission of intimate information when the number of neighboring wireless nodes is small to prevent the possibility of inferring identity. As used herein the term intimate information refers to information directly related to the user e.g. the user s habits tastes or preferences musical preferences favorite restaurants etc. .

The control logic may also periodically broadcast decoy queries and replies to make tracking an individual wireless node more difficult. Since an outside observer does not know the authentication key associated with a community the observer cannot distinguish a valid message from a fictitious one. Accordingly by observing decoy messages the observer is likely to detect presence of a private community when there is not one. Additionally the control logic enables to user to define filters for incoming information e.g. filter advertisements and how these filters would work e.g. ignore the information completely relay the information but do not store etc. . It is also contemplated that the user can direct the control logic to control the user s visibility on the ad hoc network e.g. no visibility visible only to a certain community or other user to maintain privacy. As another mechanism for protecting privacy the control logic can interact with the community layer to anonymize a specific message and corresponding identifiers as described below with respect to the community layer .

Because one of the goals of the system is to provide a mechanism for anonymous spreading of awareness information it is recognized that undesired or unsolicited messages e.g. spam messages may become a problem. To address this problem the control logic may obtain for instance information from the lower system layers of the AS module about the traffic load and current average power consumption. If the traffic load is medium or high meaning that also power consumption related to system is medium or high restrictions may be set for the frequency at which broadcasting messages are sent by the control logic . It is also contemplated that the neighboring peer nodes can be configured to not forward any broadcasting messages originating from a node neglecting such message restrictions.

The awareness layer together with the community layer provide an application programming interface API to enable an application to access the functions of the control logic and the item storage . In various embodiments the API enables application developers to have uniform and easy access to functions related to sharing awareness information over the ad hoc network . It is contemplated that the API is extensible to accommodate any application designed to access or use awareness information. The applications in the various nodes do not have to be the same or mutually compatible. It is sufficient that the applications use the API correctly to be able to publish and search awareness information in the surrounding nodes .

The awareness layer also has connectivity to the community layer . The community layer controls the formation and cataloging of communities of UEs within the ad hoc network . By way of example a user may create any number of communities for sharing awareness information. It is contemplated that a community may be either a peer community e.g. any wireless node may join a personal community e.g. a wireless node may join only if invited or the open local community that consists of all nodes in the local neighborhood. In various embodiments the messages that traverse between the UEs within the ad hoc network belong to one of these three community types. Communities can either be private messages are encrypted or public no encryption used . In various embodiments membership and status in a community affect how the wireless node shares awareness information see the discussion with respect to for additional details of community membership .

Furthermore a community may be created for any purpose or duration e.g. a permanent work community a permanent community of friends and a temporary community of concert goers lasting only the duration of the concert . As shown in the community layer includes a community control module a community directory and an encryption decryption module . The community control module provides the logic for creating joining managing e.g. updating membership configuring settings and preferences setting privacy policies and deleting communities. The module also provides part of the API .

In various embodiments the community control module assigns a unique community identification number CID to each community for use within the ad hoc network . The control module can also generate authentication keys K associated with the CID to for instance authenticate users who wish to join the community or authenticate messages directed to the community. For example a wireless node may invite another wireless node to join a community by transferring the CID and authentication keys associated with the community to the other wireless node . It is contemplated that the transfer of the CID and corresponding authentication key may occur using short range radio or using another secure mechanism e.g. short message service SMS or electronic mail . It is noted that both peer and personal communities use a CID and corresponding K whereas the open local community either can use a predetermined value for CID e.g. zero or does not use the CID at all.

To ensure privacy as discussed above the community control module interacts an encryption decryption module to anonymize the CID when including the CID in messages over the ad hoc network . For example a wireless node may direct a query to a specific community using an anonymized CID e.g. a pseudonym associated with the community in lieu of the actual CID. In various embodiments multiple anonymized CIDs may be used to represent a single community. In this way it is more difficult to identify queries corresponding to a particular community by monitoring traffic within the ad hoc network . From the perspective of an outside observer the anonymized CIDs look random. In addition the encryption decryption module may encrypt or decrypt message data using for instance a temporary key that is periodically derived from the authentication key K associated with the CID. These measures hinder the discovery of the CID by outsiders that do not have the authentication key. By way of example the community layer inserts a special header into the messages that it receives from the awareness layer . The special header for instance contains a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to which the message is relevant.

When the wireless node is in the joined state the wireless node may also be in either an inactive state or an active state . To transition between the inactive state and the active state the application may issue a command to either activate or deactivate the joined state via the application programming interface . When the wireless node is in the inactive state the community layer abandons the message even though it is a member of the community. In certain embodiments the wireless node may also be invisible to other members of the community while in the inactive state . For example the wireless node may enter the inactive state when it temporarily does not want to receive or share information with the community. When the wireless node is in the active state the community layer encrypts and decrypts community messages as usual for private communities and enables all outgoing and incoming community specific messages for public communities e.g. communities with no restrictions on membership .

Within the active state the wireless node may also be in either an invisible state or a visible state . To transition between the invisible state and the visible state the application issues a command to set either the visible or invisible state. When in the invisible state the community specific identity e.g. a user alias associated with the wireless node cannot be queried by other members of the community. For example in the invisible state the community layer continues to receive and send community messages without its identity known to other community members. When in the visible state the identity of the wireless node can be queried by other members of the community.

In various embodiments the community directory of the community layer maintains for instance information on the communities that the user has joined. Such information contains at least the community identification CID . Additionally it may contain public and or private authentication keys K of the joined communities and a list of anonymized community identifiers for each community. The community control module may periodically recalculate the list of anonymized CIDs. By way of example the community layer inserts a header into the message it receives from the awareness layer . The header contains for instance a list of anonymized community identifiers identifying the communities to which the message is relevant.

It is contemplated that a special personal community can be reserved for tracking new bonds or relationships created between users. Consider for example that user A meets user B for the first time and wants to create a radio bond between the mobile devices corresponding to each user. In one embodiment user A can initiate the creation this bond with user B by transferring to user B e.g. by using a secure transfer mechanism the CID and the public K of user A s personal new bonds community. Similarly user B may give user A similar credentials corresponding to user B s new bonds community. Once the credentials are exchanged and the bond has been created user A may find user B over the ad hoc network by searching for members of user A s new bonds community. In other words with a simple search of a single community user A can search for all the people in user A s local neighborhood with whom user A has created a bond. This requires that a high number of community CIDs and Ks can be stored in the community directory . Also an effective lookup of the community directory must be provided. There are many existing and good solutions for such efficient lookup.

As the user creates new bonds the number community CIDs and Ks stored in the user s community directory can grow quite large. Accordingly to enable effective search of a large number of communities the community layer may generate a special community search message to initiate the search. For example the special community search message contains at least in part a list of anonymized community identifiers corresponding to the communities to be searched. To protect the privacy the community layer can generate a new set of anonymized community identifiers for each community search message. If the community layer finds a match to any of the anonymized community identifiers in any of the neighboring nodes that receives the search message the community layer generates a reply message that may contain the alias of the user in that community or other community specific information. The reply message may be encrypted with the encryption key of the community.

As shown in the community layer has connectivity to the awareness layer above and the network layer below. The network layer manages the rebroadcasting of received broadcasting messages and the routing of the unicast typically reply messages received by the wireless node . depicts a diagram of the components of the network layer according to an exemplary embodiment. The network layer includes a network control module routing table neighbor table message identification MID table and message table . The network control module directs the broadcasts of messages and information by managing and updating the routing table neighbor table MID table and message table . In certain embodiments the network control module may also assist in protecting the privacy and anonymity of users by periodically changing the network layer identification associated with the wireless node . It is noted that making such a change in the network layer identification between queries does not cause routing problems for replies because the routing information is recreated by each query in the ad hoc network .

In various embodiments the network layer may insert a header into messages it receives from the community layer to for instance direct broadcasting and routing of the received messages. The structure of this network layer message header is discussed with respect to . is a diagram of the data structure of a network layer message header according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown the message header contains the following fields 1 a TX field to identify the transmitter node ID NID of the last transmitting node 2 a SRC field to identify the source node ID of the node that originated the message 3 a DST field to identify the destination source ID of the intended recipient of a unicast reply message e.g. this field is give a value of zero when the message is a broadcasting messages 4 a MSN field to identify the message sequence number assigned by the source node and 5 a hop count field that is incremented by one by each node that transmits the message. In certain embodiments the message header may also contain the following optional fields 6 a geographical limit field to designate the extent of the physical over which the message is intended to propagate e.g. the geographical limit field may contain a geographical position of the source node and a maximum broadcasting radius from that position 7 a temporal limit field e.g. the temporal limit field may contain the time when the message becomes obsolete and should be dropped and 8 a context limit field that defines the context beyond which the message is not intended to propagate e.g. a message related to a particular concert is not intended to extend beyond the concert venue .

Returning to the network layer also contains a routing table . In various embodiments the routing table contains a listing of the node identification number NID of the originating wireless node e.g. source NID and the NIDs of the last known transmitters of the message. The purpose of the routing table is to enable the routing of the reply messages e.g. unicast messages back to the querying node that originated the query through a broadcasting message. As the message propagates through the ad hoc network each subsequent wireless node that receives the message adds the NID of the last transmitter to the routing table to record the next hop neighbor towards the source node. The source node is marked as the destination node DST in the routing table. Also the message sequence number of the message is recorded. The update of the routing table is coordinated by the network control module . As shown in Table 1 the routing table lists the destination NID the transmitter NIDs associated with UEs that have rebroadcasted a message and the MSN of the message.

The neighbor table contains a list of the neighboring UEs and an estimate of their relative radio distance see Table 3 . It is contemplated that the observed signal strength together with the known transmitting power of a neighboring wireless node is an indicator of the proximity of the wireless node and can be used to calculate the relative radio distance. The relative radio distance of the node from which the message was last received is then used as a criterion for whether or not the wireless node retransmits a received message. For instance a higher signal strength indicates closer proximity to the wireless node . The network control module monitors the signal strengths of neighboring nodes as the module receives messages from nearby devices and uses it to estimate the relative radio distance e.g. proximity of the transmitting node . It is also contemplated that the network control module may use any other mechanism for estimating the relative radio distance of neighboring nodes e.g. estimating location using global positioning satellite receivers or other positioning techniques .

In certain embodiments the network control module uses the proximity information to direct the routing and transmission of messages over the ad hoc network . For example the system can reduce the potential for overloading the ad hoc network by implementing a smart broadcasting scheme whereby only a few nodes retransmit a broadcasting message. Whether a node retransmits a broadcasting message can be dependent on the relative distance group e.g. very near near or far to which the node that is the transmitter of the message belongs. More specifically if the transmitting node is in the far or near group the receiving node can retransmit the broadcasting message. If the transmitting node is in the very near group the receiving node does not retransmit the broadcasting message. For each broadcast message received from a node in either the far or near group the network control module assigns a random delay time for relaying or rebroadcasting. The delay period for instance exhibits a distribution function based on the estimated relative radio distance as a way to randomize the delay period before transmission. The distribution should be chosen in such a way that the random delay is larger for those nodes that are near than for those that are far. This favors for instance nodes that are further away to relay the broadcasting message forward which results in better broadcasting efficiency smaller total number of transmissions . The use of a random delay time also prevents the unintended synchronization of message broadcasts as the message propagates over the ad hoc network . For example unintended synchronization of the message broadcasts may result in too many nodes sending broadcasting i.e. flooding messages over the ad hoc network at exactly the same time. Additionally the delay time provides an opportunity for the network control module to monitor and count rebroadcasts of the message by other neighboring UEs .

The MID table contains a list of received messages. As the wireless node receives messages from neighboring nodes over the ad hoc network the network control module uses the MID table to check whether the message has been received previously by for example comparing the MIDs in the MID table to that of the received message. The MID table also contains a flag indicating whether a message has been transmitted by the node and the time when the entry was last updated. In various embodiments the MID is the tuple SRC MSN where SRC is the NID of the source node and MSN is a message sequence number assigned by the source node. In this way the MID is a unique identifier of each message that propagates in the network . The network control module makes an entry in the MID table for all new messages that it receives. If the message has been scheduled for transmission the module increments the message counter in the message table see Table 4 .

The message table contains messages that the network control module has scheduled to transmit. For example as the node receives a broadcasting message that the network control module schedules for transmission the module updates the message table to include the message in the message table . Each entry in the message table contains the message itself the time when the message is scheduled to be sent and the number of receptions of the same message by the node see Table 4 . In various embodiments a message is not relayed over the ad hoc network if the number of times the message has been received exceeds a predefined limit. For example a message has the initial count of 0. In this example as a wireless node in the neighborhood is observed to transmit the message the message count associated with the message is increased. When the maximum message count is reached the network control module removes the message from the message table . The transmitter of each message is also associated with an estimated relative radio distance D indicating whether the transmitting node is within close proximity of the wireless node e.g. transmitting node is in the very near relative radio distance group or far from the wireless node e.g. transmitting node is in the far relative radio distance group . If the relative radio distance associated with the transmitting node indicates that the transmission of the message occurred very near the wireless node would not have to relay the message because it is assumed for instance that most of the other neighboring UEs have already received the same message. By taking into account the relative radio distances of neighboring nodes the described smart broadcasting functionality leads to on average each broadcasting message being received for a few times by each node independent of the node density. The number of times a message is received by any one node affects the scalability of the network .

If the received message however is a unicast reply message that was addressed to the receiving node the network control module checks whether the destination node can be found in the routing table e.g. can be found from the destination field in the reply message or obtained from the source field of the query by the replying node . If found the routing table entry will give the NID of the neighboring node to which the reply message will be sent in the next opportunity. If the unicast transmission is not successful the next entry for the same DST will be used as the next try. If the received message is a unicast reply message that was not addressed to the receiving node and no acknowledgment from the intended receiver node was heard the node will store the message in the message table for scheduled retransmission. It is noted that unicast messages or acknowledgement messages that are not addressed to the node are normally received D2D radio layer see discussion of the D2D radio layer below but not by the AS module . However under certain circumstances the D2D radio layer can provide such messages to the AS module to schedule for retransmission. For example if no successful unicast of the same message is observed by the time when the message is scheduled to be transmitted the node will transmit the unicast or acknowledgement message to the intended recipient found from the routing table associated with the message. In this way the nodes that are not the intended recipients of the reply messages can assist in routing the message forward towards the correct destination.

As shown in the AS module has connectivity to a device to device D2D radio layer . The D2D radio layer enables the formation of the ad hoc network and sharing of awareness information using for instance short range radio technologies such WLAN and Bluetooth . It is contemplated that the D2D radio layer may use any wireless technology for communication between devices over short ranges. The radio technology for instance enables each wireless node within the ad hoc network to broadcast messages in a connectionless way to the neighboring nodes that are within radio range. As used herein the term connectionless means the UEs need not use two way signaling to establish a communication channel before broadcasting a message. In various embodiments the D2D radio layer may include multiple radios using one or more different technologies or protocols e.g. WLAN and Bluetooth simultaneously . A wireless node configured with multiple radios may act as a gateway node to span two or more sub networks serviced by the different wireless technologies. In this way messages broadcast on one sub network may be propagated to another sub network.

In various embodiments the low latency requirements also enable saving power in the host processor e.g. as depicted in . For illustration the following description refers to the components of exemplary chip set of . The D2D radio layer is typically implemented in the ASIC module whereas the functionalities of the AS module can be implemented either in the ASIC or the processor . If the functionalities of the AS module are implemented in the processor power consumption is reduced by for instance having ASIC wake up the processor as infrequently as possible. By way of example the periodic operation of the D2D radio layer explained above enables the ASIC to collect all messages and send them to the processor at a frequency of once per active transmission period . The processor then processes all received messages and calculates new messages to be sent for the next active transmission period . The processor then sends the messages to the ASIC for transmission. Using this process a broadcasting message can make one hop e.g. travel from one node to another node per period which is fully acceptable for awareness information. In contrast potential delays of hundreds of milliseconds are not possible for example for voice traffic and these kinds of power savings cannot therefore be achieved in other communication systems transporting delay sensitive traffic.

By way of example the AS module can use the CIDs to locate and identify communities that are active e.g. transmitting or receiving community messages among one or more neighboring UEs by 1 passively monitoring messages directed towards one or more communities over the ad hoc network using the process described with respect to below 2 actively searching for one or more communities using a community search message as described with respect to below and or 3 actively searching for one or more members of the communities using a member search message as described with respect to . The AS module then updates a list of active communities based on the identification step . For example the list of active communities includes those communities to which the wireless node belongs e.g. communities that are private such as a community of personal friends and those communities that are public and open to all nodes e.g. a general community of all wireless nodes on the ad hoc network in which system wide messages may be exchanged .

In various embodiments the AS module is continuously updating the list of active communities by for instance monitoring for messaging traffic over the ad hoc network related to one or more of the active communities step . More specifically the AS module tracks whether there are any messages originating from or directed to one or more of the active communities over a predetermined period of time. In one embodiment the period of time can be dependent on the on the density or stability of neighboring UEs . For example if the composition of the neighboring UEs is changing rapidly the time period can be shorter. Similarly if the composition of the neighboring UEs is more stable the time period can be longer. In either case the AS module observes whether there are any messages related to one or more of the active communities e.g. by checking the header information of the messages for CIDs corresponding to any of the active communities step . If no messages are observed over the predetermined period of time for a particular community the AS module designates that community as inactive and updates the list of active communities accordingly step . If a message related to a particular community is observed during the time period the community is considered to be still active and the AS module need not update the list of active communities. It is contemplated that the awareness services module can continuously or periodically perform the monitoring process to update the list of active communities.

After creating the message the AS module initiates broadcast of the message over the ad hoc network step . In various embodiments the community search message is equivalent to a query and is transmitted and replied to using the processes described with respect to below. As the message propagates over the ad hoc network mobile devices that are members of one or more of the active communities associated with the anonymized CID or CIDs included in the message automatically respond to mobile device that originally sent the message. The AS module initiates receipt of the reply messages step . The reply message contains for instance a list of anonymized CIDs of those searched communities which have an active status in the replying node . Based on this list the AS module identifies each community in the list as an active community and updates the list of active communities in for instance the community directory step .

After the member search message is generated the AS module initiates broadcast of the member search message over the ad hoc network step . In various embodiments the member search message is equivalent to a query and is transmitted and replied to using the processes described with respect to below. As the message propagates over the ad hoc network mobile devices that have one or more communities associated with the anonymized CID or CIDs in the visible state automatically respond to the mobile device that originally sent the message. If aliases corresponding to one or more users are also included in member search message mobile devices corresponding to the user aliases also respond. The AS module initiates receipt of the reply messages sent in response to the member search message step . The reply message includes for instance a list of anonymized CIDs plaintext or encrypted user aliases and possibly the plaintext or encrypted status e.g. activity state mode etc. of the community member. In certain embodiments the AS module uses the reply messages to update the list of visible community members in the local neighborhood step . In addition the AS module also uses the replies to identify active communities within the neighborhood and to update the list of active communities step . The updates are based for instance on the anonymized CIDs the community specific member identity e.g. alias o other member specific information included in the reply messages.

Moreover it is contemplated that the state of a community in a wireless node can be used to filter incoming messages. For example to block all incoming or outgoing messages a user can set the state of a community to inactive so that all messages from that particular community are disregarded. It is contemplated that a user belonging to multiple communities may independently set the visibility state for each community. By way of example to block incoming advertisements the user can set the state to inactive for the community sending the advertisements. It is also contemplated that the user can automatically set the visibility state based on criteria such as time e.g. to automatically set a visibility state at certain periods of the day location e.g. to automatically set a visibility state at certain locations such as work or school or any other context e.g. while in a meeting or at dinner .

In step the application within querying node generates a request for searching community information e.g. UEs having active communities or communities with visible members over the ad hoc network and sends the request to the community layer of the querying node . The community layer generates a community query message assigns a community query identification number CQID to the query message and prepares the query message for transmission over the ad hoc network by marking the query with CIDs of the communities from which the user is seeking information. If the user seeks information on members of the communities and the communities are private the community layer encrypts the community specific user identity e.g. alias using the encryption keys associated with the respective CID and stored in the community directory . If the community directory contains recent information about active communities in other nodes then the community layer may return the community information step . The community layer then sends the anonymized and partly encrypted message to the network layer step .

The network layer assigns a message sequence number MID to the query message and adds fields to the network layer message header to indicate that the querying node is the source and transmitter of the query message e.g. using the NID . The network layer sends the query message to the D2D radio layer of the querying node for broadcasting in the ad hoc network step .

The query message is then broadcasted to one or more relaying nodes step . All the nodes that are able to receive the broadcast message are relaying nodes. After processing by the relaying node the query message is rebroadcasted to another relaying node or to the replying node step . The processes of the replying node are described with respect to . After processing of the query message by the replying node a reply message is generated and sent to the relaying node step which routes the reply message either to another relaying node or to the querying node step based on the route stored in the routing table .

At the querying node the D2D radio layer receives and acknowledges the reply message and forwards the reply message to the network layer step . The network layer determines that the querying node is the intended destination of the reply message by checking the DST field in the network layer message header and sends the message to the community layer for processing step . In case of a private community the community layer decrypts the reply message using the appropriate encryption keys stored in the community directory . Based on the information in the reply message the community layer updates information in the community directory list of active communities and the lists of visible members in the communities and finally sends a service response to the query to the application step .

In step the D2D radio layer of the replying node receives the query message and forwards it to the network layer of the replying node . The network layer may decide to rebroadcast the query message step . On receipt the network layer forwards the query message to the community layer step .

If the community layer determines that the query message contains one or more anonymized CIDs of the active communities associated with the replying node and the query message contains encrypted user aliases the community layer decrypts the message and updates information in its community directory e.g. containing the list of active communities and the list of visible members of the communities . Next the community layer generates a reply message that contains the same CQID as the incoming query and has the source NID of the query message set as the destination NID of the reply message. If the query requests visible user aliases and the user alias in the node is set as visible then the community layer encrypts the user alias with the encryption keys associated with the community. The community layer then retrieves a new anonymized CID from the community directory and sends the reply message to the network layer step .

On receipt of the reply message the network layer assigns a new message sequence number MSN to the reply message attaches the NID of the replying node as the source and transmitter finds the NID of the relaying node for the next hop from the routing table sets the receive NID of the reply message as the next hop and sends the reply message to the D2D radio layer step . The D2D radio layer sends the reply message as a unicast message addressed to a relaying node over the ad hoc network step .

In step the AS module determines a request to share at least one content item from at least one device. In one embodiment the AS module may receive the request from a user via a UI option at a UE indicating that the user wishes to share one or more content items. For example a user may wish to share a picture he just captured on his UE . In one embodiment the AS module may receive the request via the application at the UE which for example may be based on contextual information location information trigger conditions and the like. For example the application may prompt to share one or more coupons available on a UE with other UEs when the UE is at a particular location e.g. at a restaurant at a particular time e.g. during lunch with particular group of users e.g. any students and the like.

In step the AS module causes at least in part a generation of one or more compressed representations of the at least one content item the one or more compressed representations including at least one link for retrieving the at least one content item. In one embodiment the AS module and or the application may generate a compressed representation e.g. a summary a small number of bytes of data etc. of the content item available for sharing wherein the compressed representation may include a sample an indicator contextual information content type content metadata and the like whereby a recipient of the compressed representation may be able to ascertain at least some information associated with the content item available for sharing. For example only a small section of an audio content item e.g. an audio fragment a wave form etc. may be included or a picture may be highly minimized or a sample of a textual content may be shown as simple text etc.

In step the AS module causes at least in part a broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations in one or more broadcast messages over an ad hoc network to one or more other devices. In one embodiment the AS module of a UE may generate one or more messages including one or more compressed representations of one or more content items for broadcast via an ad hoc network to one or more other UEs for example from a source device to one or more target destination devices. In one embodiment the AS module may generate the messages in conjunction with the application wherein the application may determine one or more components of the compressed representations.

In one embodiment the ad hoc network operates in a low power mode of the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof and wherein the retrieving of the at least one content item operates in a higher power mode of the at least one device the one or more other devices or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the UEs participating in an ad hoc network may broadcast and or receive one or more compressed representations while the UEs operate in a lower power mode for example transmit in low power mode in order to save battery power maintain a low interference with other transmissions control broadcast range and the like. For example in a low power operating mode the ad hoc network may allow continuous broadcasting and reception of messages by the UEs in time synchronized connectionless manner as depicted in and in discussion of without significant effect on the battery life time. Further in one embodiment the UEs may operate in a higher power mode when transmitting and or receiving the one or more shared content items via the ad hoc network. For example in a higher power mode the UEs may operate in a more conventional way of using peer to peer wireless radio in a connection oriented mode where the content is typically transferred using IP between the UEs . In one embodiment the AS module may facilitate the transmission and or the reception via one or more other available networks e.g. WLAN Bluetooth NFC cellular etc. that may be capable of e.g. more power better bandwidth more efficient etc. receiving and retransmitting the one or more shared content items. In one embodiment the retrieving is via an Internet Protocol network a cellular network or a combination thereof wherein the IP address of a receiving and or a transmitting UE and a transmitting component e.g. a service provider may be used during the retrieval.

In one embodiment the one or more compressed representations include one or more identification ID codes one or more UI icon codes or a combination thereof associated with the one or more compressed representations the at least one content item or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the AS module of a sharing UE may include and or instead utilize an ID code or a UI icon code to indicate to the receiving UEs as to what a compressed representation and or a content item may actually be wherein the receiving UEs may decode the ID and or UI icon codes e.g. from a library and present the associated information and or icons at the receiving UEs . In one embodiment utilization of the ID and or UI icon codes may provide for more efficient transactions via the ad hoc network for example smaller message size less power for transmission less time on the ad hoc network and the like.

In one embodiment the broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations the at least one content item or a combination thereof is based at least in part on geo location contextual information or a combination thereof associated with the one or more other devices. For example an ad hoc message may indicate that the message may be broadcast within a certain geo location e.g. range or by UEs including certain contextual information associated with the UE and or a user of the UE and the like. In one embodiment the at least one content item is available for sharing in substantially real time. In one embodiment the one or more compressed representations are valid based at least in part on a predetermined duration of time. In one example a user sharing a content item may indicate a short duration wherein the content item may be available valid and or may be transmitted for sharing. In one embodiment one or more parameters of the ad hoc network may allow for content items to be available for sharing for a certain period of time for example to avoid aggregated content on the network which can result higher traffic and power consumption by all devices.

Referring to the process begins at step where the AS module determines one or more sharing rules associated with the at least one content item. In one embodiment the AS module and or application on a broadcasting UE a sharing device may determine one or more sharing rules for example from the UE user preferences metadata contextual information of a content to be shared location of the UE a target recipient group any security keys and the like before the content item is broadcast. In one embodiment the AS module and or the application may re determine the sharing rules based on one or more changes updates to the user profile of a sharing device geo location change change in time and the like.

In step the AS module causes at least in part the broadcasting of the one or more compressed representations based at least in part on the one or more sharing rules. In one embodiment the AS module may determine a broadcast time location device power level and the like.

In step the AS module causes at least in part a generating of the one or more compressed representations based at least in part on one or more types of the at least one content item the at least one device the one or more other devices resource availability at the ad hoc network or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the at least one content item includes an image a video an audio a textual or a combination thereof content item type. In one embodiment the AS module may determine the type of the content item to be shared for example from metadata associated with the content item and further determine a compressed representation based on the type. In one embodiment the application may determine the type of the content to be shared and determine the compressed representation. For example the content to be shared may be an audio file which may need to be sampled for determining an appropriate e.g. audible small size etc. compressed representation. In one embodiment a coarser sample e.g. digitally sampled at a lower rate of the content item e.g. audio image video etc. may be generated for a proper size message in the ad hoc network.

In step the AS module causes at least in part a presentation of the one or more compressed representations at the one or more other devices based at least in part on one or more user defined parameters at the one or more other devices. In one embodiment a user may define one or more parameters preferences via the AS module for receiving certain types of messages via the ad hoc network. For example a user may only wish to receive messages related to sports automobiles music books cooking and the like. Further the user may wish to receive messages that are substantially near real time e.g. only a few hops via other UEs that are for a certain interest group e.g. students of a college are from a certain nearby location and the like. In one embodiment the application may determine one or more parameters of a compressed representation in a message for filtering the messages of the ad hoc network based on the user defined parameters user history user preferences and the like.

The processes described herein for providing a service or activity in an ad hoc network may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor performs a set of operations on information related to providing a service or activity in an ad hoc network . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing a service or activity in an ad hoc network . Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing a service or activity in an ad hoc network is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In various embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing a service or activity in an ad hoc network .

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide awareness information over an ad hoc network . The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile station speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In the exemplary embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile station are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile station . The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the station. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile station .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile station on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile station settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

