---

title: Method and system for forwarding or delegating modified mobile device functions
abstract: This provides for controlling mobile device functions and features. For example, it limits or disables the use of some of mobile device features which could cause distraction to the user, when the user is engaged in another activity. In an example, it enables other mobile device features based on occurrence of events related to the user or environment. Another example addresses controlling the mobile device features, such as SMS, while the user is in a vehicle or driving. Another example restricts the ability of the driver of a vehicle to text, while the vehicle is in motion, by automatically disabling the texting ability of mobile device within and around the perimeter of the driver's seat. Other variations, examples, improvements, detection mechanisms, models, techniques, calculations, verification mechanisms, and features are also described in details.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09438737&OS=09438737&RS=09438737
owner: HYUNDAI MOTOR COMPANY
number: 09438737
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120502
---
This application is a continuation of an earlier co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 610 319 filed on 31 Oct. 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 315 617 by the same inventors and same assignee. This application claims benefit of the priority date of the co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 610 319. This application incorporates by reference the entire teaching and specification of the co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 610 319.

Modern mobile devices provide many functionalities including telephony e.g. cellular phone VOIP PDA personal digital assistance e.g. contact address list games photos network connectivity e.g. Internet web browser email short message service SMS mapping location services . Generally the mobile device user explicitly controls which applications functionalities to use at a given moment. For example the user might use SMS services or texting at any location where there might be network connectivity. Given that the network connectivity has become more prevalent the mobile device users tend to use the functionality of mobile devices in more places and situations.

An example of these mobile device functionalities is the text messaging or texting which is a communication method between mobile devices over cellular networks wherein short written messages are exchanged between mobile telephone devices using a communication service standard commonly known as SMS. Given the gateways between the IP networks and telephone networks one or more SMS users may be on one or both types of networks. This messaging service has been extended to Multimedia Messaging Service MMS to include multimedia messages e.g. containing video still image and sound.

This method of communication and its underlying technology has grown to such a great level that it has become one of the most widely used form of mobile communication in the world wherein almost every mobile phone service provider has made it available to its users as part of its service covering several billions active users spanning almost every age group.

The typical mobile device shown schematically in includes an audio interface block connected to speaker unit and microphone on one side and digital signal processor DSP block on the other side. Audio interface block usually includes a digital to analog converter DAC being coupled to a speaker and an analog to digital converter ADC being coupled to microphone to digitize the audio voice and to send the digitized voice to DSP for further processing. DSP which is considered processing heart of the mobile telephone system communicates with audio interface block and RF interface block and digitally performs such signal processing functions as speech coding decoding error detection correction channel coding decoding signal equalization and demodulation as is well known to those skilled in the art.

Typically DSP performs under the control of microprocessor controller and may further be coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC block where it can help with the operation of DSP in some application specific functions in the background as known to those skilled in the art. RF interface block which is coupled to DSP receives digitally processed base band signal from DSP and it for example performs quadrature complex modulation on the digital base band signal converts the modulated digital signal to analog form using digital to analog converter and sends the modulated analog signal to transmitter block for further frequency up conversion to radiofrequency RF for wireless transmission through power amplification block and antenna .

In the receiving side of mobile telephone system downlink wireless RF signals are received by the receiver block via the antenna. Receiver block amplifies the received RF signal through an automatic gain control unit down converts the amplified RF signal to intermediate frequency IF by mixing it with a locally generated reference signal and passes the IF signal on to interface block for quadrature complex demodulation with filtering and analog to digital conversion as is well known to those skilled in the art.

Digital signal processor DSP block receives the digitized IF signal from the interface block and performs various signal processing techniques such as demodulation equalization error detection correction and signal detection and forwards the detected signal i.e. voice to audio interface block to be converted to analog voice amplitude controlled i.e. amplified or attenuated and sent to the speaker block.

As those skilled in the art recognize most of the above operation is performed under the control of microprocessor controller block . In a typical mobile telephone system as depicted above microprocessor controller block performs such functions as level 2 3 protocol radio services management man machine interface operating system OS software and short message service SMS . The operations of both keyboard and display are under the control of the microprocessor controller. Mobile devices also include local memory storage used by the processor and or other components of the system.

As is known to those skilled in the art and from sources such as printed publications or online technical articles e.g. WIKIPEDIA An Internet community information website during the text messaging microprocessor controller receives alphanumeric information from the keyboard uses SMS services software embedded in its memory converts the alphanumeric information into short message format and typically sends the generated message to DSP to be processed and sent over the control channel to a short message service center SMSC which provides a store and forward mechanism to forward the text messages to the intended recipient.

Although this method of communication service has provided unprecedented level of mobile phone subscriber service it may be desirable to limit disable the use of some of mobile device features which could cause distraction to the user when the user is engaged in another activity. For example statistics indicate that the likelihood of being involved in a traffic accident while driving and using a handheld device is four times more than any other situations. One the other hand it may be desirable to enable other mobile device features based on occurrence of events related to the user or environment. For an example this invention addresses controlling the mobile device features such as SMS while the user is in a vehicle.

This invention provides for controlling mobile device functions and features. For example an embodiment of this invention limits or disables the use of some of mobile device features which could cause distraction to the user when the user is engaged in another activity. An embodiment of this invention enables other mobile device features based on occurrence of events related to the user or environment.

An embodiment of this invention addresses controlling the mobile device features such as SMS while the user is in a vehicle.

An embodiment of this invention restricts the ability of the driver of a vehicle to text while the vehicle is in motion by automatically disabling the texting ability of mobile device within and around perimeter of driver s seat while the vehicle is in motion.

Other variations examples improvements detection mechanisms models techniques calculations verification mechanisms and features are also described in details.

In one embodiment of this invention as illustrates in a transceiver is placed on or about the steering wheel of a vehicle . In one embodiment the transceiver has a limited effective range of few feet. In one embodiment the effective range is about the range of where the driver of the vehicle would be located seated e.g. driver seating on the driver seat . In one embodiment the transceiver is located at about under the driver side control panel driver s seat driver s door or driver side mirror . In one embodiment when a mobile device is located outside of vehicle i.e. sufficiently far e.g. few feet from the driver side seat or inside vehicle at near front passenger seat or at near backside passenger seat the mobile device is out of effective range of the transceiver .

In one embodiment when localized transmitter transceiver e.g. is activated e.g. by turning on the vehicle e.g. ignition and setting the gear outside of Park position the localized transmitter transceiver sends a code.

In one embodiment when the RF signal level received by the mobile device from a localized transmitter transceiver e.g. is above a threshold signal level power the mobile device decodes or processes as in another embodiment a code sent by the localized transmitter transceiver. In one embodiment the effective range e.g. of transmitter transceiver is set so that within the effective range the received power level by a mobile device e.g. is above the threshold signal power level while substantially outside the effective range e.g. at or the received power level by the mobile device from the localized transmitter transceiver is lower than the threshold signal level power.

As illustrated by in one embodiment after the mobile device receives a signal from a localized transmitter transceiver e.g. the mobile device decodes e.g. via a running program or in firmware a coded sequence or a code sent from the localized transmitter transceiver . In one embodiment if the received code matches a preconfigured code or code sequence it would indicate that an event has occurred e.g. the mobile device has entered an effective range of the localized transmitter transceiver . In one embodiment such event would indicate that one or more feature or functionality of the mobile device e.g. SMS should be changed e.g. to become limited or disabled e.g. . If so in one embodiment the feature e.g. SMS of the mobile device is changed e.g. disabled if not already disabled .

In one embodiment the duration of the feature modification is a set to a period of time e.g. 30 seconds .

In one embodiment upon occurrence of other events e.g. an emergency event indicated by a signal input to the mobile device the disabled or limited feature of the mobile device is restored. In one embodiment when user dials an emergency number or the mobile device enters an emergency mode the disabled or limited feature of the mobile device is restored.

In one embodiment when the code received from the localized transmitter transceiver indicates e.g. an enabling event the mobile device terminates the period of feature modification and restores the corresponding feature functionality. For example if the driver sets the vehicle on the Park position the localized transmitter transceiver sends an enabling code to the mobile device indicating that the feature e.g. SMS can be restored. In an embodiment where a status of vehicle such as speed is used to determine the modification of a feature when the vehicle comes to full stop the limited feature becomes enabled again e.g. after a predefined period of time such as 10 seconds e.g. by sending an enabling code to the mobile device from a localized transmitter.

In one embodiment the configurations and rules are dynamically configurable via the user interface on the car computer control the mobile device or a remote server e.g. a web server . In one embodiment the operational settings e.g. how often the code is transmitted by the transceivers e.g. every 15 seconds is also configurable via a control panel e.g. attached to a localized unit via a car computer panel or via the mobile device .

In one embodiment when the mobile device receives a code indicating an event to modify e.g. limit disable a feature e.g. SMS and the feature is already modified e.g. SMS is already disabled limited e.g. due to prior code transmission the remaining time period for maintaining the feature modification is extended to a predefined time period e.g. . In one embodiment the extending time period is the same as the original time period for feature modification. In another embodiment the extending time period is shorter or longer than the original time period for feature modification. For example in one embodiment upon receiving the code from the localized transmitter transceiver the SMS feature of the mobile device is disabled limited for 30 seconds. If after 25 seconds similar code is again received by the mobile device the remaining 5 second turns to 30 seconds in an embodiment for which the original time period is the same as the extending time period for the feature modification. However in one embodiment when the extending time period e.g. 4 seconds is shorter than the original e.g. 30 seconds the remaining time is extended if the remaining time is less than the extending time period. In this example the remaining time period remains as 5 seconds because it is more than 4 second extending time period. In one embodiment the remaining time is tracked in a variable memory location . In one embodiment the expiration time is stored in a variable memory location . In one embodiment the remaining time is updated periodically or the expiration time is checked against the current time e.g. from local system or synchronized from network via NTP periodically to determine when expiration is reached.

In one embodiment one or both of the original time period and the extending time period for the feature modification are configurable on the mobile device. In one embodiment one or both of these time periods are transmitted to the mobile device via the localized transmitter transceiver. In one embodiment the mobile device receives one or both of these time period values from a push or pull service from the corresponding telephone carrier or from a server in network or Internet.

In one embodiment the mobile device is equipped with GPS Global Positioning System service or receives its or vehicle s position from another GPS system e.g. from a GPS service on the vehicle or an emergency service provider on the vehicle . In one embodiment the mobile device or the computer GPS on the vehicle periodically or on demand determine the locality jurisdiction state country by using mapping address location services e.g. via Internet or a local database . In one embodiment a change in locality jurisdiction state country is identified by comparing subsequent GPS readings. In one embodiment upon a change in locality jurisdiction state country the original time period and the extending time period for the feature modification corresponding to current locality jurisdiction state country is determined e.g. by querying a local database or downloading data from a service from Internet and these time values or other parameters provided by the service e.g. speed limits are used subsequently to modify the mobile device feature.

In one embodiment when and how long to maintain the feature modification is determined by a set of rules and configuration values which are executed in a rule based engine e.g. in a mobile device vehicle computer or a server on a network . In one embodiment the rules are downloaded upon querying by the mobile device or the vehicle s computer based on the geography e.g. location of the vehicle or mobile device type of the vehicle and or one or more attributes of the driver or passenger s e.g. age occupation or exemptions .

In one embodiment when the mobile device e.g. whose one of its features is already modified leaves the effective range of a localized transmitter transceiver e.g. or does not receive a further code indicating extension of the feature modification period the modified feature is restored to previous state when the remaining modification period is over.

In one embodiment the mobile device keeps monitoring e.g. for an RF signal from a localized transmitter transceiver. For example in one embodiment a program task running on the mobile device periodically checks for such signal or is notified by an underlying hardware firmware operating system RF modules that a signal has been received. In one embodiment the communication between the local transceiver and the mobile device is performed through BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol or related technology. shows a typical transport stack of BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol from physical layer through Application layer . In principle a signal monitoring application can be implemented at any layer or directly use one or more layers in the stack. In one embodiment a monitoring application uses OBEX UDP or TCP to communicate with the localized transceiver. For example in one embodiment the signal monitoring application opens a port UDP or TCP with a predetermined port number for listening for incoming messages. In one embodiment the signal monitoring application uses a lower layer such as RCOMM or LCAP directly to communicate with the localized transceiver. In one embodiment a signal monitoring program determines the received signal power level from drivers or directly from physical layer or higher layer . In one embodiment the monitoring program runs as a background task. In one embodiment the background task runs even when the mobile device is in sleep mode e.g. to conserve battery power e.g. by turning off the display .

In one embodiment when the signal monitoring application receives a code from a localized transmitter transceiver it modifies or triggers modification of a mobile device feature function e.g. SMS . In one embodiment the signal monitoring application is integrated part of function feature to be modified e.g. integrated or a module of SMS application . In such an embodiment a tight integration between the signal monitoring module and core functionality control enables one to modify the functionality directly e.g. via non public API Application Programming Interface or direct calls. In one embodiment the signal monitoring application and the feature function to be modified are not as tightly integrated. In such an embodiment there are various methods that the feature modification may be achieved. For example the triggering application i.e. the signal monitoring application calls one or more APIs of the triggered application i.e. SMS application to modify the feature. In such an embodiment the triggered application supports modification of the feature via those APIs. In one embodiment the triggering application modifies configuration data used by the triggered application and or other underlying software firmware hardware. For example illustrates a typical application stack and interdependencies between hardware operating system OS drivers interface implementation libraries and applications as well as configuration data . Depending on the configuration and the nature of the modules the behavior of the module is affected by available configurations. Some configurations are allowed to be modified and some are dynamically used by their respective modules. In one embodiment the triggering application modifies a configuration for a lower level module e.g. a driver to modify the feature supported by the driver and used by one or more triggered applications at a higher level . In this case if there are multiple applications supporting the feature to be modified e.g. several SMS applications on the mobile device which use a common module e.g. a driver the feature may be modified by configuring affecting the common module.

In one embodiment the triggering application identifies e.g. by querying the OS the applications processes that provide the feature to be modified for example by using the signatures of those triggered applications. In one embodiment the triggering application terminates the identified triggered applications if they are running e.g. by sending a command to the OS or using an inter process messaging. In one embodiment the triggering application prevents launching of the triggered applications via the mobile device user interface e.g. by temporary disabling access to the triggered application. In one embodiment the triggering application sends messages via an inter process messaging to affect the behavior of the triggered application and modify a feature supported by the triggered application.

As illustrated in in one embodiment multiple local transmitters transceivers e.g. and are placed on a vehicle . In one embodiment one or more of these local transmitters transceivers e.g. and have a short effective range e.g. few feet e.g. and respectively . In such an embodiment if the mobile device is moved around inside the vehicle its location may be monitored tracked based on the events related to the mobile device getting in RF range of one or more of these local transmitters transceivers. In one embodiment when the mobile device exits the effective range of the local transmitter transceiver corresponding to the driver and it enters e.g. at the effective range e.g. of another local transmitter transceiver e.g. the mobile device receives a code indicating for example in range event from local transmitter transceiver and the modified feature on the mobile device is restored. In such embodiment instead of driver at attempting to use a feature e.g. SMS the mobile device can be handed to a person on the passenger side at to perform the function. Similarly the mobile device e.g. at can be used by a person on the back seat to perform the task. In one embodiment if the mobile device is taken outside vehicle e.g. at the functionality is restored e.g. due to the lack of receiving a code from the local transmitter transceiver to extend the feature modification period.

In one embodiment the multiple transmitters transceivers are positioned so that their effective ranges map the interior of the vehicle where the driver and passengers might be located and hence the potential location of the mobile device s . In one embodiment the power level settings of the multiple transmitter transceivers are adjusted so that their effective ranges better map the interior of the vehicle in order to make a more accurate determination of the mobile device location especially close to the driver seat . For example in one embodiment the front transmitters transceivers are placed close to mirrors and to reduce overlap between their corresponding effective ranges. In one embodiment the back transmitter transceivers are placed behind or above the back seat at the left and right sides of the vehicle.

In one embodiment one or more transmitters transceivers e.g. is placed e.g. about the center of the vehicle. In one embodiment such a transmitter is used to calibrate the power level of the other transmitters transceivers e.g. and . In an embodiment the power level output of the localized transmitters transceivers are adjusted based on an RF calibration. This for example helps keeping the effective ranges stable by keeping the power levels stable when the output power levels of these transmitters transceivers tend to drift over time. In one embodiment additional transmitters transceivers e.g. help better position the mobile device.

In one embodiment a transceiver has a higher effective range than the other local transmitters e.g. and . In an embodiment the mobile device makes the data communication with transceiver while it determines the received power level signals from transmitters and as well as their unique identifiers. Based on these received power levels the mobile device determines within which effective range s it is located and the mobile device communicates the corresponding identifier s to transceiver . In one embodiment transceiver provides the data to a localized unit and the localized unit provides a code to be sent to the mobile device via transceiver . A localized unit is installed on the vehicle e.g. behind control panel dashboard trunk floor etc. In one embodiment transceiver is wired to the localized unit for signaling and power. In one embodiment transceiver is integrated with the localized unit. In one embodiment a localized unit uses a processor controller to perform logical and other calculations control the transmitters transceivers communicate with the mobile device via transceiver s and receive data status from vehicle s computer control or sensors. depicts an embodiment of this invention where the localized unit installed near the vehicle s driver side control panel is integrated with its transceiver. The transceiver communicates with the mobile device when mobile device is on its effective range. The localized device communicates with the vehicle s computer control system or sensors.

In one embodiment as depicted in the mobile device and the localized unit communicate via their respective transceivers and the localized unit receives vehicle status from the local vehicle s computer control system. In one embodiment vehicle s local computer control share resources with the localized unit i.e. they are integrated in one unit. For example the processor memory operating system display networking or other components of the vehicle computer system is used for implementing localized unit functionality.

In one embodiment e.g. as illustrated in multiple localized transmitters transceivers and are placed on a vehicle e.g. with effective ranges of more than few feet. In one embodiment the effective ranges are set at factory and or during installation e.g. during calibration.

In one embodiment the mobile device location is determined by using the localized transmitters transceivers. In one embodiment the location of the mobile device is determined based on the relative timing of signal from the mobile device to the transceivers. In such an embodiment using the radio wave as media the time resolution is in order of 1 nsec or less and the transceiver s have stable clocks reference signal generator e.g. with low phase noise . For example one transceiver e.g. provides a reference RF signal for the other transceivers and to obtain and compare with signals from the mobile device .

In an embodiment the location of the mobile device is determined based on the relative signal power levels from the local transmitters transceivers measured at the mobile device. In one embodiment the power levels are measured at the local transceivers for the signals from other transceivers and the mobile device. Based on the antenna configurations of the transceivers and other obstacles a transmitter s signal power level attenuation is dependent on the distance to the transmitter. For example with the geometric expansion of the radiated wave front the free space attenuation is given by r 4 where r is the distance to the transmitter and is the wavelength of the radiation.

In one embodiment the relative power levels measured at the mobile device or the local transceivers are used to estimate the relative distances of the mobile device to the local transmitters transceivers. For example assuming the attenuation is inversely proportional to r in one embodiment the ratio of distances of the mobile device to two transmitters is proportional to the inverse square root of the ratio of their corresponding signal power level measurements at the mobile device. In one embodiment once the ratio of distances of the transmitters from the mobile device is determined for example by a program on the mobile device or the localized unit the position of the mobile device is determined with respect to the transmitters.

Given that the attenuation has strong dependence on the distance from the transmitter in one embodiment the distance of the mobile device to each transmitter is estimated based on the signal power level received from the transmitters to the mobile device. To help the accuracy of the estimation in one embodiment the power level measurement by the mobile device is calibrated by placing the mobile device at one or more predetermined locations with respect to the transmitters during a calibration procedure. For example in one embodiment the calibration is performed by placing the mobile device close to the steering wheel close to dashboard at the front passenger area on back seats or in the area between the front and back seats. The calibration is stored e.g. in the mobile device and associated with the vehicle identification and it is used to determine the location of the mobile device at a later time. In one embodiment the calibration program may be run e.g. in factory during installation by using a typical or the same mobile device by authorized personnel the user or service repair staff and the calibration data may be on the mobile device electronically sent to the user for installation of the mobile device placed on a server accessible via Internet for later retrieval stored on a non volatile memory storage of localized unit or accessible to localized unit such as vehicle s computer control system .

In one embodiment the output signal power level of each transmitter transceiver is measured by other transceiver s in order to baseline the relative power output from each transmitter transceiver given that the locations of the local transmitter s transceiver s remain fixed with respect to each other. For example the signal output power of transmitter transceiver is measured by one or more of transceivers or . Comparing these power measurements with a set of previously calibrated power measurements provides the amount of deviation in transmitted output power from transmitter transceiver since the prior calibration. For example if signal power from transmitter transceiver as measured by other local transceivers has dropped 2 dB compared to the that during calibration while the output signal power level out of transceiver as measured by other transceivers has increased 1 db since calibration then in one embodiment the relative output signal power measurements of the transceivers and at the mobile device is adjusted 3 dB compared to that during the calibration. Then in one embodiment the adjusted measured transmitted output signals i.e. adjusted by 2 dB and 1 dB respectively and or the adjusted ratio of the transmitted output power signals i.e. adjusted by 3 dB are used as correction factors in estimating the distance of the mobile device to the transmitters.

In one embodiment the baseline power output measurement s of each local transmitter transceiver as measured by other local transceivers is communicated to the mobile device via a transmitter transceiver e.g. or used by localized unit and the deviations of these baseline power levels from those of the calibration are used as correction factors when determining the distances or relative distances of the mobile device to the local transmitters transceivers. In one embodiment during calibration of the transmitters transceivers the output signal power levels of local transmitters transceivers are measured at some predefined distance s to the transmitters e.g. 2 feet and 4 feet in addition to the measurements at the output signal power levels by the other local transmitters transceivers. This measurement aids in determining more accurate measurement of the distance to each transmitter by providing direct sample point s linking the transmitter output power to the distance.

For a hypothetical example in an embodiment as illustrated in assume that during a calibration run the values of output signal power level see Block of transceiver as measured by transceivers and are 48 dBm 52 dBm 51 dBm and 45 dBm. Further assume the values of output signal power level Block of transceiver as measured by transceivers and during calibration run are 47 dBm 50 dBm 51 dBm and 44 dBm. Assume that during a baseline measurement at a later time the output signal power level Block of transceiver as measured by transceivers and are 50 dBm 59 dBm 53 dBm and 47 dBm and the output signal power level Block of transceiver as measured by transceivers and are 46 dBm 54 dBm 50 dBm and 43 dBm. In this example comparison of the signal power measurements indicates that the power output of transceiver has likely dropped by 2 dB since calibration and the power output of transceiver has likely increased by 1 dB since calibration. This for example can occur due to drift in the transmitter power output over time. The data also indicates that the transceiver consistently measuring 5 dB less than expected when measuring the signal output power of transmitters and . This for example can occur due to an obstacle blocking the signal received at transceiver . Another measurement to confirm this conclusion is the output signal power measurement not shown of transmitter by other transceivers and comparing those measurements with those of calibration. In such a case it is likely that all other transceivers assuming not individually blocked would show about the same measured power level drop e.g. 5 dB since the calibration of transmitter . In one embodiment the power level measurements from calibration and baseline are compared to determine the transmitters or receivers that are potentially blocked.

In an embodiment the analysis considers assumes n number of transceivers e.g. n 5 in . For each transmitter calibration e.g. Block or there are n 1 measurements. Therefore there are n. n 1 calibration points for all transmitters power measurements. Likewise there are n. n 1 baseline measurements e.g. Blocks and . In one embodiment the analysis assumes that the transmitted power may drift for each transmitter and therefore there are n variables representing power drifts D e.g. expressed in dB 1 i n . In one embodiment the analysis assumes that there may be a blockage close to each receiver which attenuates the received power as well as the transmitted from the same transceiver . Therefore there are n variables representing power attenuation due to proximity blockage B e.g. expressed in dB 1 i n . One embodiment uses the deviation in power level between the calibration and baseline measurements therefore there are n. n 1 power deviation data points corresponding to the deviation from the calibration data points and the baseline data points. In one embodiment there are 2n variables representing both D and Bvalues. This indicates that for n 3 with n. n 1 deviation data points there will be the same or more number of data points available than the number of variables providing a redundancy for cross checking or averaging the results. For example for n 5 there are 10 variables and 20 power deviation data points. 

In one embodiment the analysis assumes a blockage between the individual transmitters and receivers i.e. not specific to individual receivers or transmitters . In an embodiment the blockage matrix B 1 i j n e.g. expressed in dB would represent the blockage between the ith transmitter transceiver and the jth receiver transceiver. In one embodiment diagonal terms are set to zero i.e. B 0 . In such embodiment there are n. n 1 variables in the blockage matrix. In one embodiment the off diagonal terms are symmetric i.e. B B reflecting an assumption that the signal attenuation is symmetric with respect to the direction of signal propagation between transceivers. In such an embodiment there are n. n 1 2 blockage variables. In one embodiment there are n number of transmission power drift variables with Drepresenting the power drift for the ith transmitter e.g. in dB since its calibration. In one embodiment there are n. n 1 2 blockage variables Band n number of transmission power drift variables D. Therefore in such an embodiment there are n. n 1 2 number of variables. In one embodiment there are n. n 1 power deviation data points as explained above . Therefore for n 3 there will be the same or more number of data points than variables providing a redundancy for cross checking or averaging the results. For example for n 5 there are 15 variables and 20 power deviation data points. For n

In one embodiment if the power output of the local transmitters transceivers their receiving antennas and power measurements and their propagation obstacles are similar the ratio of measured signal power level by the other local transceivers should track as expected with the distance to each transmitter. In one embodiment a consistent large deviation e.g. drop in the power measurement by other transceivers indicate that the transmitter is not working properly or it is blocked by an unusual obstacle. Therefore in one embodiment the user is notified via communications from the localized unit to the mobile device or the vehicle s computer system in order to notify the user through a user interface e.g. audio and or visual about the issue. In one embodiment the blocked transmitter is identified to the user by its location on the vehicle e.g. by matching its identifier with its location using a query on a preconfigured table s having the transmitters transceivers IDs and their installed locations and or description. Such table s is stored maintained on localized unit the mobile device and or a remote server accessible via the mobile device and or the localized unit for example through its own communication device the vehicle s computer communication system or the mobile device .

In one embodiment the blockage variables and or power drift variables are calculated based on the calibration and baseline data measurements. In one embodiment the user is notified about abnormal blockage or power drift via a user interface e.g. on the mobile device or car computer control system or by email SMS or other communication means mediums. In one embodiment identifying data and information are sent from the localized unit to the vehicle computer control or the mobile device. In one embodiment if the blockage amount is more than a preconfigured threshold the user is warned about the blockage and or its location based on the identity of the transmitter s transceiver s . For example the user may be warned that there is an object blocking the transceiver on the right side of the back seat e.g. in Blocks and . Or the user may be warned that there is a blockage between front passenger and left back seat transceivers i.e. and . This could occur when for example a large metallic object is placed on the front passenger side seat. In one embodiment if the calculated power drift and or the amount of blockage are more than their respective thresholds those measurements affected by the power drift and or blockage are disregarded when estimating the distance of the mobile device to the transmitters transceivers. In one embodiment if the amount of power drift is less than a threshold the localized unit adjusts e.g. increases or lowers the power output setting on the particular transmitter e.g. in multiple steps with baseline re measurements . In one embodiment the statistics of the adjustment and or power measurements are kept in memory storage or sent to a server or the mobile device for further analysis such as identification of degradation in the system.

In one embodiment the vehicle sensors such as weight monitoring on seats e.g. as used to detect a seated passenger are used to estimate the approximate blockage expected from the passenger s or used to check validate the blockage variables obtained e.g. from baseline measurements. In such an embodiment the sensor data may be used directly or via the vehicle s computer system. In one embodiment the vehicle sensor status and data is sent to the localized unit or to the mobile device e.g. after determining that the mobile device corresponds to the vehicle via e.g. owner or a family plan .

In one embodiment the power drift and blockage factors are used to adjust the measured transmitted signal power of the localized transmitters transceivers at the mobile device. The output power transmitted by the local transmitters transceivers may be different even during their calibration therefore the output signal power of the local transmitters transceivers during calibration measured at some predefined distance s to the transmitters e.g. 2 feet and 4 feet are used to better estimate the mobile device distance or relative distances to the transmitters. For example in one embodiment assume that it is estimated that the output power of transmitters and have drifted by 2 dB and 1 dB respectively e.g. and while the power output of other transmitter have not changed. Furthermore assume that there is an estimated blockage of 5 dB e.g. or associated with transceiver . Also assume that during the calibration the output power measurement taken from transceivers and at e.g. 2 feet and or 4 feet distance s by a specialized power meter or a typical or the same mobile device provided the following measurements 39 dBm 38 dBm 39 dBm 39 dBm 34 dBm at e.g. 2 feet respectively. Based on the estimated power drift and blockage the adjusted power levels from transceivers and measured by the same tools at 2 feet away from the transceivers would be 41 dBm 37 dBm 44 dBm 39 dBm 34 dBm respectively during the time of baseline measurement.

In one embodiment as illustrated in when the mobile device is at location it is closer to transceivers and than transceivers and with its separation distance indicated by and respectively. Also when the mobile device is at location it is closer to transceivers and than transceivers and with its separation distances indicated by and respectively. In contrast when the mobile device is outside of vehicle its separation distance to transceiver grows even longer . As an example having the mobile device located at assume the output signal power measurements by the mobile device for the transceivers and are 45.5 dBm 43.7 dBm 47.8 dBm 52.3 dBm 37.1 dBm respectively e.g. during the same time or close the time of the baseline measurement . In one embodiment the distance of the mobile device to the transmitters is determined by comparing these values with the adjusted power levels adjusted for power drift and blockage from transceivers measured at a certain distance e.g. 2 feet to the transmitter. For example in one embodiment the power ratio is attributed to the separation distance of the mobile device from the transceiver compared to e.g. 2 feet . For example in one embodiment for transceiver the ratio of the local transceiver output signal power measured by the mobile device e.g. 43.7 dBm to the adjusted power level at 2 feet e.g. 37 dBm is 6.7 dB. Attributing this ratio to the spatial attenuation in one embodiment the distance of the mobile device to transceiver is determined by Attenuation 20 Log r r where r is the distance to the transmitter and ris the referenced distance used during calibration e.g. 2 feet . This estimates that the mobile device is about 4.3 feet. Applying similar procedure the distance of the mobile device to the transceivers and are estimated to be 3.4 4.3 5.5 5.8 and 2.9 respectively which places the mobile device close to the driver s seat toward the center line of the car as demonstrated by . For the purpose of illustration in this figure the distance from to and was set to 4 6 and respectively and was set on long axis of vehicle with each of and pairs arranged symmetrically with respect to long axis.

In one embodiment once the distances of the mobile device are approximated with respect to the local transmitter transceivers a triangulation technique is used to map the location of the mobile device compared to features of the vehicle based on the locations of the transmitters transceivers with respect to the vehicle e.g. see and . In one embodiment by mapping the position of the mobile device it is determined whether the mobile device is located in certain regions within or close to the vehicle. In one embodiment the predefined regions are stored as polygons multi sided geometrical objects with curved sides e.g. or free hand drawn digitized geometries in the same coordinate system as the mapped location of the mobile device. Known mathematical technique can be used to determine whether the mapped location of the mobile device is in a particular region and or its distance to any similarly defined object. For example if region is defined to represent the normal reach of the driver in a vehicle while driving in an embodiment the mapped location within the region indicates that the mobile device is in a triggering region and a device feature should be modified e.g. SMS capability should be disabled .

In an embodiment the accuracy of locating the mobile device is enhanced by using the same mobile device or similar tool to measure the transmitted output power of the local transmitters transceivers at certain distance s from the transmitters during the calibration. This is because in the embodiment the measured power levels by the mobile device e.g. at or about the same time as the baseline measurements is compared with the calibrated values to attribute the deviation to the spatial dependence of the wave form attenuation. If the device s used during the calibration phase is different from the mobile device in measuring the transmitted signal power of the transceivers e.g. due to the antenna size other calibrations or internal power gain amplification the difference in the power readings between two devices i.e. calibrating device and the mobile device can cause an offset in the perceived distance from the transmitter. For example if the power readings differ by 3 dB i.e. about twice as much the offset in the distance estimation would be about 41 10 . Due to the logarithmic dependencies small deviations in power readings do not significantly impact the distance estimation. For coarse measurements and location of the mobile device within or about a vehicle in an embodiment the tolerances can also be applied when defining the triggering regions e.g. for example by expanding inflating its boundaries.

In one embodiment the power measurements of the transceivers output signal by the mobile device and the calibrating tool s are converted to power density measurement based on the rating and specifications of the measuring tools and device. By normalizing the power values to power densities in one embodiment the peculiarities of the measuring devices are effectively masked from the analysis. For example instead of measure the output power as dBm in one embodiment the measured value is converted to for example dBm cmto reflect the power density. In an embodiment the measured power densities are similarly adjusted for power drift and blockage estimations. In one embodiment the transceivers measurements of other transmitters transceivers transmitted output signal power during calibration or baseline measurements are also similarity done based on power density.

In one embodiment the output power transmitted by a local transmitter is estimated by utilizing the circuitry and meters on the transmitter itself. A prior calibration and rating can also be used to estimate the transmitter output power based on the settings and or input to the transmitter. In such an embodiment the measurement of the transmitter s output at predefined distance s from the transmitter during calibration may become optional or require less number of measurements as an alternative way to measure and monitor the transmitter s output power is provided by the transmitter itself. In an embodiment the output power levels and or the settings and input parameters of the transmitters transceivers are stored during the calibration phase. In one embodiment the transmitted signal output power of a transmitted is converted to a power density value at a given distance e.g. 2 feet from the transmitter based on the type of the transmitter and or known or estimated theoretical empirical power density vs. distance relationships.

In one embodiment the mobile device distances to the local transmitters are estimated based on the power ratios received from multiple local transmitters. In one embodiment as illustrated in the distance of the mobile device at to transmitters transceivers and is indicated by and respectively and the output signal power levels transmitted from the transmitters transceivers to the mobile device depend on the respective distances. In one embodiment the measured power levels are adjusted for estimated power drifts in the transmitters and or blockages as described earlier. In one embodiment the power level measurements are normalized to power densities at the mobile device and or calibrating device s . In one embodiment the transmitters transceivers output power is determined e.g. by a prior calibration or by using the transmitters circuitry settings input. In one embodiment the measured power or power density of each transceiver at the mobile device is corrected normalized using the determined the transmitters transceivers output power. This correction normalization estimates the power levels as if the transceivers had the same output powers therefore in an embodiment the normalized measured power or density level is expressed in dB. In one embodiment the adjustment and correction factors are applied to the transceiver s transmitted power level or power density as measured by the mobile device. In one embodiment the variations e.g. ratios in values of the corrected adjusted power readings at the mobile device are attributed to the spatial attenuation of the wave form transmitted to the mobile device from the local transceivers. Therefore in an embodiment the ratio of the corrected adjusted power or power density from two transceivers are dependent on the distances to those transceivers. In one embodiment the dependency is logarithmic and for example it is expressed as P P 20 LOG r r in dB where Pand Pare corrected adjusted power or power density measurements at the mobile device from transmitter e.g. and transmitter e.g. respectively and rand rare the mobile device distance to the transmitters e.g. and respectively . If expressing the normalized powers in dB in an embodiment the relationship becomes p 20 LOG r r in dB where is the difference of the corrected adjusted power or power density levels expressed in dB. In an embodiment the ratio of the distances from a mobile device to two transmitters are determined e.g. based on r r 10 p 20 dB . Note that a b indicates a to the power of b . Therefore as an example illustrating an embodiment assume the measured output signal power from transceivers and at the mobile device are 45.5 dBm and 43.7 dBm respectively and also assume that since the calibration the transmitted power drift D of the transceivers were 2 dB and 1 dB respectively. In addition assume that output power of the transmitters during calibration were 0.2 dBm 0.95 mW and 0.8 dBm 1.20 mW respectively or assume that the measured power at e.g. 2 feet distance during the calibration were 39 dBm and 38 dBm respectively . Therefore the measured power levels are adjusted to 43.5 dBm and 44.7 dBm to pre power drift levels respectively. The adjusted power levels are normalized to take into account that the output power at calibration of the transmitters were different by 1 dB 0.8 dBm 0.2 dBm 38 dBm 39 dBm . For example normalizing correcting relative to transmitter the corrected normalized power levels would become 43.5 dBm and 45.7 dBm for transmitterand transmitter respectively. Alternatively to normalize the ratio of the adjusted power levels to the calibrated power output of the transceivers or the calibrated power measurement at e.g. 2 feet from the transmitters may be taken. The results will be the same in this example because the normalization results in a relative correction of 1 dB. Then the ratio of the corrected adjusted output signal power levels i.e. p for two transmitters and as measured by the mobile device becomes 2.2 dB 45.7 dBm 43.5 dBm . Therefore the distance ratio to the transceivers become r r 10 2.2 dB 20 dB 1.29. This is the same ratio of the distance from the mobile device and the transceivers and as illustrated in i.e. r r 4.4 3.4 1.29.

In one embodiment the location of the mobile device is determined by using the calculated ratio of the distances of the mobile device to the transmitters transceivers. For example as illustrate in the locus of points on the plane or in 3 dimensional space having the same ratio k

In special case where the distant ratio is 1 both land R tend to infinity as tends to infinity and k tends to 1. In this case the locus of points having same distance to the fixed points simple becomes the perpendicular bisector of segment joining the fixed points.

Similarly the ratio of distance of the mobile device to another pair of transceivers e.g. and pair is used to determine the corresponding locus of points having the same distant ratio to the fixed points and . The locus of these points as depicted in lie on a circle having a center on a line joining the fixed points and and a radius .

In one embodiment intercepting a circle e.g. associated with a pair of transceivers e.g. and pair with another circle e.g. associated with another pair e.g. and pair narrows and limits the possible locations e.g. and of the mobile devices with respect to the transceivers as the intercept points of the circles. For example considering transceivers and there are 3 pairs of independent power ratios and three independent circles. For example two of the three independent circles could be and . The third circle could be associated with any of the remaining pairs or . The third circle associated with any of the third pairs would limit the location of the mobile device to one of and . An additional transceiver e.g. would provide additional power ratio with any of the other transceivers and would provide an additional independent circle associated with it and one of the other transceivers which potentially validates the determination of the location of the mobile device based on 4 transceivers. In one embodiment the independent circles are identified by numbering and sequencing the transceivers and selecting i j pairs where i

In one embodiment a hybrid approach is taken to determine the location of the mobile device. For example two or three circles associated with two or there transceiver pair are intercepted to determine a narrowed potential locations for the mobile device. Then a transceiver e.g. is used to determine the distance to the mobile device using a power level approach. This way for example one embodiment discriminates between the potential locations of the mobile device e.g. and by comparing the estimated based on power level distance from the mobile device to the transceiver to the distances and from the transceiver to the potential locations and respectively of the mobile device.

In one embodiment the power levels or density transmitted by the local transceivers are mapped for each transceiver on and or around vehicle e.g. by using actual measurements during calibration empirical results simulation and or estimations with without passengers or with different arrangements of passenger seating. Based on this power level mapping a set of contour maps are generated to reflect a loci of points having the same ratio of the power or density between the two transceivers pair for a set of ratios e.g. expressed in dB . Then in an embodiment the contours are used to map e.g. by interpolation or extrapolation between contour lines to determine a contour representing the determined distance ratio corresponding to the transceiver pair. Then in one embodiment such interpolated extrapolated contour lines from multiple transceiver pairs are superimposed to determine their intercept points as potential location of the mobile device. In previous examples the contour lines were represented by intercepting circles. In one embodiment the location of the mobile device is estimated as an average location of a cluster of intercept points that are closely located with each other. In one embodiment if the contours or circles do not actually intercept a stand in pair of intercept points which define the shortest segment connecting the contours or circles are used instead.

Similarly in one embodiment the signal power levels are measured and calibrated under various occupancy of the vehicle and this data is used later to determine the location of the mobile device by looking up the determined power levels ratios in the gathered data and performing interpolation extrapolation on the gathered data points.

In one embodiment for example using BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol or similar technology for establishing the transceiver rangers e.g. or used to locate the mobile device within a vehicle e.g. based on the transceiver s output power level the output power level of the transceivers are prevented from varying during the communication setup with the mobile device or they are set back to their original calibrated levels for the purpose of establishing range s and determining distances from the mobile device.

Generally when a transceiver attempts to participate in a power controlled link with another transmitter it needs to measure its receiver signal strength and determine if the other transmitter should modify its output power level. This is achieved for example via Receiver Signal Strength Indicator RSSI . The instructions for modifying the transmission power are provided by the LMP . Therefore in one embodiment the transceivers are modified to not change their output power level due to such requests from other transceivers or alternatively store their calibrated setting and restore to those settings before performing their baseline measurements or providing a limited range to the mobile device. This modification may be done by configuration additional software hooks to modify supplement the code behavior or additional logic at the RF power control module to determine if it should respond to request for power level change.

In one embodiment directional transceivers transmitters are used to tailor the ranges e.g. and coverage. Due to its angular dependence of their signal power the distance of the mobile device to the transmitter may not be accurately estimated in all directions only based on the measured power level measured at the mobile device. In one embodiment the transmitted power is lowered to limit the size of range. In one embodiment overlapping directional ranges are established e.g. in a checkerboard pattern by multiple transceivers so that by identifying which transceivers cover the mobile device it is effectively determined in which overlapped portion of the corresponding ranges the mobile device is potentially located.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the Localized Unit and is includes the transmitter transceiver. In other embodiments the localized unit is not tightly integrated with the transmitter s transceiver s e.g. because of the physical installation location and or size.

As shown in in one embodiment the modification of the feature of the mobile device is affected by one or more contextual environmental variable parameter signals such as the status of the vehicle or a subset thereof .

In an embodiment other or additional vehicle status e.g. speed road status e.g. rainy passenger status and or information e.g. from vehicle s sensors such as outside lighting are used to send an appropriate code to the mobile device. In an embodiment where only one code is sent to the mobile device e.g. indicating modification of a feature logically or physically the selection step e.g. via MUX may be implemented differently or eliminated.

Similarly as shown in in an embodiment system e.g. representing a localized unit communicates with the mobile device by sending one or more codes. In this embodiment the mobile device communicates with a transceiver in its range sends the system a code e.g. indicating that a mobile device is capable of modifying its feature . Upon receiving the signal message by the transceiver the message is decoded and the transmitted code is verified by the system to check for the validity of the received code e.g. using a preconfigured stored code s . Based on the verification the code s e.g. feature modification activation indicating code s e.g. as discussed earlier in context of system is sent to the mobile device based on car status parameters sensors e.g. whether the vehicle is out of PARK and the engine is on . The lines solid and dotted from Verification module to the logic code selection and Encoder indicate some of multiple ways that the system can be implemented in various embodiments in order to send the feature activation deactivation code s after the system has already received and verified the initial code from the mobile device. For example Verification module can effectively nullify the logic e.g. by sending a logic 0 to an AND gate disable the code selection unit process e.g. by disabling MUX and or disabling preventing Encoder or Transceiver to receive the code s in the first place e.g. by modifying the output at their previous stages or . In an embodiment Verification module can similarly enable these modules processes when the verification is successful e.g. by sending a logic 1 to the logic module enable code selection module by enabling MUX enabling Encoder to receive selected code and or modifying the output at stages at or as indicated by dotted lines in . is provided for illustration purposes of the concept as there are multiple ways to implement such embodiment known to one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the mobile device sends a message to a remote server service when modifying a feature. For example in one embodiment when disabling SMS feature on the mobile device the mobile device sends a message to SMSC to store i.e. to hold the incoming messages until the hold is removed e.g. by sending another message to SMSC to forward the messages to the mobile device.

In one embodiment the communication can go between and or between and instead of or in combination with communication between and .

In one embodiment a first mobile device e.g. functionality is limited disabled modified due to its entrance in effective range of transceiver close to the driver s side . As the result a message is sent to for example a remote server service SMSC to flag the first mobile device as modified featured. In addition the vehicle transceiver ID associated with the first mobile device is also sent and stored at the remote service e.g. in a database as described earlier. As shown in in one embodiment a second mobile device simply denoted as mobile device in for example located at receives a code from a local transceiver e.g. and determines that it indicates an in rang event i.e. the second mobile device is in effective range of transceiver or it is determined that the second mobile device is located at or near the front side passenger seat . In one embodiment the mobile device sends a message to for example the remote service center server SMSC identifying the second mobile device the vehicle transmitter ID and in range event or its availability to assume another mobile phone functionality feature . In one embodiment the remote service or SMSC attempts to match the first mobile device with the second mobile device. For example in one embodiment the remote service queries the vehicle ID to find matching mobile device s that are currently have modified feature attributes e.g. by looking up a database . In this example the query result would include the first mobile device as it was tagged as feature modified and it was linked e.g. by an entry in a database to the unique vehicle transmitter s ID. In one embodiment it is determined that both first and second mobile devices are associated with the same vehicle. In one embodiment the remote server or the first mobile device determines whether the 2mobile device can assume the modified limited functionalities features of the first mobile device. As an example a predefined table is queries that provide the identities of the mobile devices having such authorization. An example would be a set of mobile devices that belong to a family plan or a business plan etc. In one embodiment the service provides an interface for users to configure update maintain the list. If the second mobile device can stand in for the first mobile device e.g. per list then the second mobile device corresponds to the correct vehicle and the remote service or SMSC e.g. forwards the text messages that were destined to the feature modified mobile device i.e. the first mobile device to the stand in mobile device i.e. the second mobile device .

Similarly in one embodiment the status of each mobile device e.g. and are determined and the function or message tasks are forwarded to by the central server. Mobile device is deactivated partially or fully e.g. at least for the functions that were forwarded to mobile device . The identification steps are done at steps and and the decision steps are done at steps and with decisions to keep monitoring at steps and and final step of forwarding the tasks at step .

In an embodiment where one mobile device is shared between the driver and one or more passengers e.g. a mobile telephone belongs to the driver originally and it is within the feature deactivation disabling range of the driver seat as determined by any of the methods mentioned in this disclosure such as using items and for transmitter transceiver as an example or ranges and for the driver and passenger and a mobile device e.g. item in . However when the phone is given to a passenger in another seat e.g. moving from seat to seat the signal goes to the center a server or SMSC to update that the phone is now within an activation enabling range for the current location to update the status to the activated or enabled device. Then the passenger can use the feature e.g. act on it and talk or text on the phone back and forth.

In one embodiment when the phone moves back from range to range e.g. handed from a passenger on seat to the driver on seat then a message is sent to the center a server or SMSC to update that the mobile device e.g. a cellular phone is now within a feature deactivation disabling range and thus the system does not let the driver use e.g. the texting functionality from then until the situation changes again in the future.

In there are some examples of communications notification and or forwarding from one device or another device or more devices or in combination . However these can be generalized to any number of proxies or intermediate devices for storing notification forwarding instructions rules controlling and replacing. The SMSC can be generalized to any server central place or any other data center processing center.

In we have multiple mobile devices for the same local device for which the availability of the second device is announced by the 2nd device directly to SMSC and the function for device is halted by the Halt message from device to SMSC. Then the message function is forwarded to the second device from SMSC.

In we have multiple mobile devices for the same local device for which the availability of the second device is announced by the 2nd device to the device which will notify SMSC about the availability of device indirect notification to SMSC in contrast to . Then the message function is forwarded to device from SMSC instead of device . The code transmission and in range verification are already taught by other examples in this disclosure. 

Note that the teaching in this disclosure also applies to any wavelength RF infrared X ray microwave radio waves laser other parts of electromagnetic spectrum visible or invisible parts plus sonar radar Doppler effect sound waves shock waves or ultrasound waves. In one embodiment an array of antennas is located on the top of the roof of the car or inside the door of the car. The teaching in this disclosure also applies to the reflection transmission refraction or emission by from deflected by through antennas objects human users drivers passengers telephones tags smart cards IDs RFID or mobile devices either active or passive no battery or power for example and detected or received by some other dishes antennas detectors sensors CCDs sensitive films sensitive transistors or diodes recording media storage media counter accumulator lenses or semiconductor layers to find determine the location of users telephones and other objects in the car or at other places.

In one embodiment the sensor transceiver or multiple sensors transceivers are placed in a vehicle moving object or any object in general . In one embodiment the RFID active or passive technology is used and RFID transceiver s are placed at the steering wheel dashboard of the car roof door s mirror center one or on the side of the car sun visors or other locations in the car. In one embodiment the one or more sensors or detectors are placed near the driver or closer to the driver of the car. In one embodiment a range threshold e.g. is the maximum effective length distance of the operation for this current device system or sensors i.e. within the range of operation of this current invention . In one embodiment the mobile device is equipped with RFID transceiver tag.

In one embodiment an array of antennas is used to make the signal directional. In one embodiment the transceivers are placed at the ceiling of the vehicle or close to the floor e.g. under the seats .

In one embodiment the driver is excluded but others on the car are not excluded to perform a task or have an option or functionality on the mobile device or send receive some signal or information. In one embodiment some locations in the car are designated as hotspots to be excluded or to be included to perform a task or receive some signal or information. In one embodiment some locations in the car are designated as hotspots in combination with a context for example the type of message the sender the identity of the receiver the time of the message the length of the message or the content of the message such as Private Message Emergency Message Financial Message or For The Person Named Joe Smith Message to be excluded e.g. cannot do it or to be included e.g. can do it or vice versa to perform a task or receive some service or receive some signal or information.

Note that can do it situation can be generalized to all these situations. The user limiting in terms of time or number of functions and tasks 

In one embodiment a context alone or in combination with the other parameters is the deciding factor for the determination to be excluded or to be included to perform a task or receive some signal or information. In one embodiment the identity e.g. by name subject to verification by biometrics PKI private public key symmetric encryption smart card PIN code personal ID password or their combinations or the position of the person e.g. parent of the driver or user mother father guardian owner of the business car boss family member an adult police authority figure owner of the car power of attorney proxy or court appointed person is the determining factor alone or in combination to be excluded or to be included to perform a task or receive some signal or information.

In one embodiment the biometrics includes the conventional identification methods such as face recognition knuckle recognition eye recognition iris recognition finger print finger recognition signature voice recognition handwriting recognition or pattern recognition for identification or verification of the presence of the user driver passengers in the car located at various point s in the car for various seats user s with one or more sensors or cameras in the car and a central processing unit in the same car or in a remote location.

In one embodiment for train metro or any public transportation means the operator s usage can be blocked and at the same time a message warning will be sent to the main station about the attempt or the actual usage of the operator with proper recordation in a central server with a time stamp and number of occurrences. It can cause the emergency brake disabling the control from operator side or transferring the control to the headquarters.

In one embodiment the message or warning can go to the same user and or his her parents his her boss third party e.g. police or anybody designated by the user or others. It can be in the form of each or combination of the following text telephone call ring audio multimedia movies video siren vibration light flashing light smell e.g. releasing spraying a sharp smell from a chemical reservoir container or box to warn or shake the user voice message standard or customized warnings by user s voice or others predetermined message customized message real time message automatically conference call initiation giving options on the user s telephone or computer computing device giving options on another person s telephone or computer computing device and or specific music song sound or note for a specific situation customized or assigned to by the user or a third party to remind the person or user about the specific situation. For example a specific sound or music may can will remind or signal the boss e.g. owner of the shipping company that the user driver operator number 5 e.g. among out of his 25 drivers has activated the warning or message.

In one embodiment the following one or more conditions or their inverse or negative logic counterparts must be met to activate the warning or message to cause an action or task or to start enable stop or disable a function or task e.g. stop getting and or sending text messages and or voice messages or both except e.g. for to from emergency numbers 911 or parents number s or alternatively with no exception as another embodiment for user or a third party determined in real time or pre determined before by user system government laws rules or third party 

The conditions above can be AND ed OR ed NOR ed XOR ed or logically combined in other forms to set more or fewer constraints or conditions on the user or driver in terms of functions available to the user regarding his mobile device PDA laptop computer GPS system multimedia display DVD player CD or CD ROM player radio cell or mobile phone pager walkie talkie computing device communication device or any other device or appliance available as mobile or in the car or even limiting the functions of the car such as limiting the gears on the gearbox or stick shift stopping or slowing the engine stopping the gas supply turning off the radio or similar functions in the car . One can customize the conditions above for example one can set the following as the condition rule based condition can be downloaded automatically or pushed from a server maintained e.g. by a government entity agency 

Thus any kind of condition and restriction consequences can be applied in the logic of the operation as long as there is a sensor or device to detect that condition and there is a switch or controller to disable enable control adjust the outcome equipment or parameters. One CPU server or central computer in the car or remotely can control and adjust all parameters and equipment sending multiple signals and warnings to different locations for various tasks and acknowledgements as an example .

In one embodiment the choices or options are all disabled partially disabled all enabled partially enabled e.g. disabling text but still enabling voice functions or hands free options or time delayed for example after the car and or engine stops either or both for different embodiments enabling the text functionality delivering the message or turning on the telephone .

In one embodiment the BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol using a universal code can be used for transmission and communication between the devices and the telephone. The application can run in the cell or mobile phone or alternatively in a central place or server as a remote location for example. In one embodiment the application can run in the background and checking periodically for the status to activate or deactivate some function s option s or do some task s . In one embodiment the telephone is a smart device i.e. all or most of the decisions and processing units are in the handset itself. In one embodiment the telephone is a dumb device i.e. all or most of the decisions and processing units are in the central location e.g. on a server or at the headquarters e.g. in a remote place such as at the telephone company. In one embodiment the software or updates are pushed from carriers telephone car rental or service companies or local state federal governments to individual devices or telephones. In one embodiment the user downloads the codes or execution software using hash function or encryption for security from a web site or a central place server.

In one embodiment the command or the signal from the processing unit forces the engine or car to stop or put on the brakes for the car slowly or immediately or prevent restrict texting or telephone functions partially or fully e.g. turn off the texting unit or the phone altogether on the first try or on the second third try by the user for example or restricting more on the subsequent tries for the functionality of the phone or texting as another example which requires a counter to count the number of attempts .

In one embodiment the system is in an enclosure which is tamper proof. The state or the federal government can check the functionality of the system on a yearly mandatory basis so that nobody can open the enclosure or change any settings or parameters within that.

The ID verification for a person and phone can be obtained from the phone in one embodiment. In one embodiment the ID of a person can come from a separate tag driver s license key chain magnetic strip RFID passive or active or smart card or similar or conventional method source while as a separate different source the telephone ID comes from the telephone or yet another third source .

In one embodiment if the unit is functioning or malfunctioning the indicator on the car shows to the user using lights or LEDs or sound voice. The police can monitor the status of the unit or if it functioning properly e.g. if it was tampered with using the sensors or signals monitoring the doors seals or caps on the box or enclosure to find such a status whenever the car goes for yearly inspection or stopped for any traffic violation in the close proximity with the police detector or police car. This can be done using for example a complete circuit going through the door of the disclosure. So whenever somebody opens the disclosure the circuit becomes open and that can trigger a magnet wire coil that feeds from the same circuit to stop working causing a metal rod or bar to move a certain direction or drop by gravity after the magnet ceases its support or pull on the metal bar or rod and also causing some other circuit sending a signal indicating such tampering and action to a detector or a central location such as police. Similar types of tamper proofing and or detection have been done by others and we incorporate any conventional tamper proofing art here.

In one embodiment the authorities or authorized personnel can check whether the transceivers are turned on by measuring residual signal power levels around and in proximity to the vehicle.

In one embodiment tamper proofing is applied to the software modules running on the mobile device and or localized unit. The tamper checking is performed for example when connecting to the service provider carrier by downloading a tamper checking software code script from the carrier to the mobile device. In one embodiment the tamper checking software when running on the mobile device checks the feature limiting features of the mobile device e.g. the triggering program by use of methods such as determining hash representation of the code and comparing with that from the remote server.

In one embodiment for the parents the restriction can be higher than those imposed by the states or federal government for the children under 18 or above age 18 to drive the car based on the age and experience as set by parents. This can also depend on the range of driving distance from the house e.g. determined by using GPS mileage per day e.g. by using a counter time of day more restriction at night maximum speed and maximum weight for the cargo for the car. For example the younger the driver the more restrictions on the driver and the less functionality of the telephone in addition to limiting the speed of the car or at least warning the kid or parents about the high speed or recording those events with timestamp for future inspection by parents for exceeding age related speed limitations or local speed limits .

The cars nowadays have a sensor based on the weight or pressure or temperature which can detect the presence of a person on a seat. In one embodiment this can be used for detection of the passengers i.e. the number and positions. For example if a kid the driver of a car has a passenger in front then if that passenger is identified as a parent guardian e.g. based on biometrics or smart card then he has fewer restrictions but if that person is not his parents he will have more restrictions on his telephone functionalities compared to that of driving alone. In one embodiment in order to identify the passengers their mobile devices and their locations are recognized via the local transceivers the localized unit and the mobile device s . Based on the identifications of the mobile devices e.g. cellular telephone numbers or other identifying features such as SIMS the identity of the holders are determined. In one embodiment this method is combined with other identification methods for additional checks.

The rules and restrictions can be updated crossing state lines or boundaries for local governments cities downloaded on a kiosks or terminals remotely in proximity of the kiosks or terminals while stopping or moving by radio signals or magnetic optical transmission of data or even cable connections if the car is stopped to update from those kiosks or terminals . Those rules can also be updated at the yearly inspection stations by the local governments for all cars.

In one embodiment the busses and trucks have more restrictions than cars for texting or telephone functions. At dark or night there are more restrictions than during the daytime. In one embodiment the family plan for telephone company dictates the rules or who can change them rules and restrictions on the usage of phones with some password or other ID verification techniques. In one embodiment this system can be integrated with GPS satellite transmissions and emergency road services such as On Star service. In one embodiment the settings are done at the factory based on destination market according to local rules.

In one embodiment the drunk driver detection already on the market can be combined with our system to report sick drunk sleeping or texting driver based on the breath analysis chemical analysis eye patterns blinking patterns breathing patterns and position of the head for the driver using face analysis and various pattern recognition methods in the market.

In one embodiment if the driver receives the text it will automatically go to one of the passengers or a designated one s based on the identity telephone ID or number or the position of the passenger in the car or the combination of the above. These rules can be predetermined or set real time during driving by one of the passengers for example.

In one embodiment the system periodically searches detects to see if it is within the range or not to turn it back on again. For example after disabling the text earlier when the car is stopped or the driver or telephone is removed from the car when the system detects such a status the system turns on the texting functions back on again so that the telephone is fully functional again.

In one embodiment the presence identity of the user is determined by triangulation from multiple sensors or multiple directive antennas or RFIDs or magnetic tags or smart phones or smart cards or multiple antennas. In one embodiment the face recognition or conventional feature pattern recognition techniques are used for identification of all passengers or driver.

In one embodiment using multiple sensors detectors antennas tags reflectors dishes transmitters or receivers at different locations in the car boat airplane train or other vehicles for personal or commercial use one can determine the locations of the multiple users phones in a car for example . The intensity measurement and or distance measurement are applied here.

In one embodiment in each region of the car there is a set of sensors or transmitters to detect the presence of a passenger on that area or seat. That will give a binary Yes No answer for the presence variable for each seat. This way the passengers for each seat are determined locally. In one embodiment the passengers for each seat are determined globally from all the sensors in the car using the distances or ratios for example for intensities to determine who is in what seat or which seats are unoccupied.

In one embodiment 2 kinds of triangulation methods are used each or both together 1 based on the relative intensities 2 based on the delays and timings. When one has the extra points of reference or redundant antennas or detectors transmitters receivers or directional antennas or array of antennas the extra information can be used to interpolate or extrapolate the other data to check the validity of the other data or to average the data to reduce errors or get a better location or relative position information.

In one embodiment the microprocessor or controller periodically reads the decoded sequence from the receiver decoder and compares it with a stored code. If the decoded code matches a predefined correct code the microprocessor or controller performs one or more of the following operations 

As soon as the mobile device is out of transmitter range and receiver fails to detect the transmitted signal the microprocessor or controller resets mobile device s texting operation back to normal.

In one embodiment of the invention the transmitter encodes a predetermined sequence and transmits it through inductive antenna to transceiver unit located in front of steering wheel of the vehicle the vehicle ceiling over driver s head or the dashboard section in front of the driver. As the mobile device comes within the reception range of transceiver transceiver receives the transmitted signal through inductive antenna decodes the transmitted sequence in the decoder block and after verification of the decoded sequence for example by comparing with a replica of the sequence in its memory generates a logic 1 bit to logically AND it with ignition and not park signals to enable a transmitter. The transmitter encodes a second predetermined sequence different from the first predetermined sequence and transmits it through inductive antenna block to transceiver. Receiver block in transceiver decodes the second sequence which in turn is read by microprocessor controller to disable the display keyboard for the user.

Another embodiment employs BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol technology operating either over a dedicated channel or a plurality of channels. A transmitter transmitting a dedicated code is installed as in previous embodiments above within the steering wheel of vehicle or in another location in the vehicle in the close vicinity of the driver s seat. Similar to the previous embodiments when a mobile phone device comes within the reception range of the BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol transmitter the BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol receiver of the mobile phone device receives the transmitted code decodes it and subsequent to verification initiates a command sequence in the microprocessor or controller to disable texting operation and in addition to send a message through the control channel to SMSC to store and withhold sending the messages destined for that mobile phone device.

In one embodiment where the speed information is not directly available from the vehicle the speed dependent rules related to the feature modification may be applied by directly indirectly estimating the speed of the vehicle. For example in one embodiment a GPS or a triangulation technique is used to estimate the location of the vehicle e.g. using the mobile device being carries in the vehicle at various times e.g. sampled every 10 seconds . The speed of the car and or the direction vector is determined by comparing the consecutive location of the vehicle and elapsed time between their sampling using known methods. In one embodiment the sampling time is reduced if the speed increases or variation in speed along the consecutive points are beyond a threshold.

As one embodiment shows the inputs from 4 modules going to the Action controller module with a possible feedback from the Action controller module to those 4 modules. The Telephone and users location and ID module is shown in in more details as one example. The Rule priority and combination logic module is shown in in more details as one example. The Features ranges module is shown in in more details as one example. There is an optional Manual control and override module which a user can interfere change parameters or stop the operation at different authority levels if desired as an example.

Federal government rules can be set up to override local rules and vice versa according to the laws enforced. Contract based rules can come directly from a contract specifying the time of restrictions the range of restrictions distances and other parameters which is spelled out in a contract between a business owner and the hired drivers for his trucks as an example.

Emergency condition rules may override all others in terms of police calling or 911 calls or any forward calls showing the Context or Content flag as a header information as being the emergency type.

Sensors to measure the temperature and humidity rain inside and outside of the car or current information forecasts from web sites or weather channel can be fed into the Environment based module to find the corresponding rule s for that specific weather condition as an example and supply that rule s to Rule priority and combination logic module as shown in as an input.

In different methods are used to verify the identity of a person or show the presence of the person as the driver passenger or other users. The location of a person can be detected by antennas reflection transmission detectors or receivers and analysis of the relative timing and intensity to locate a person in the car or on specific seat e.g. before biometric identifications. All of the obtained information is then supplied to the Telephone and users location and ID module.

In for each function and feature on the phone for example for n features going from 1 to n where n being a positive integer we have the description of the feature function such as text messages sending or receiving. We have also dependencies e.g. text function disabling which has a relationship with disabling text message receiving . That is text function disabling is a superset of disabling text message receiving . That is whenever the text function is disabled the text message receiving is also disabled but the reverse is not always true.

In whenever an object comes within a range to trigger the function to be modified disabled called Range of Modification Deactivation or R which in general may not be exactly the same as the range for the reverse situation to make the same function restored activated again within some range or Range of Activation or R. The activation or deactivation can be interpreted both for enablement and disablement respectively or vice versa. However for most cases the two ranges radiuses distances are the same with the same boundary border threshold for the activation and deactivation process to be triggered i.e. R R.

In one embodiment some or all the information from the modules above will be input to the Features ranges module as shown in .

In we have Action Controller Module which may increase decrease or modify the scope the number of available functions functionalities choice list or menu list of the possible actions for a given device. Alternatively it may forward the function or task to another entity or user or re assign the task s partially or fully e.g. transferring the text message intended for the driver to a passenger in the car i.e. to a second phone as a forward message so that the passenger can respond listen talk to the phone text message voice message in real time or as stored message with an optional copy stored for the driver for his later review with an option for the driver to also review the response of the passenger as well in terms of recorded voice or text at a later time e.g. when he is not driving anymore and his telephone is activated again.

This can be extended to a conference call for multiple users and multiple drivers multiple passengers all at the same conference call using voice and or text.

In Action Controller Module can control engine speed car speed car acceleration e.g. amount of gas and air supplied the max or min gear functional on gear box or amount of current or voltage supplied e.g. for electric cars equipment in the car such as sunroof and radio e.g. on off switch and volume for sound adjustment based on a maximum level type of functions available for mobile devices and communication personal computing gadgets for different users at different locations and with different responsibilities such as driver and passenger s in front and back seats for example.

In Action Controller Module can control type and method of delivery plus the frequency of delivery of messages notifications and warnings in addition to who gets it in what order. For example Action Controller Module sends a warning message to a father every minute or in higher frequency later on with a special ring and follow up recorded voice message first about the receiving text message by a teenage driver his son . Then later it would send a second message to his mother of the driver with text message only every 5 minutes warning about this incident with no or different ring tone. There is a list of recipients with the order of receiving in one embodiment. In one embodiment there is a forwarding list and there is another list for when in case the father and the mother cannot answer the phone as the emergency backup numbers or the list of people to contact later on.

In one embodiment biometrics or other types of identification is used to identify the driver e.g. by using a finger print scanning device located at or near the steering wheel ignition button or other controls . Based on the driver s identification information such as rules configurations are queried from a database s in one embodiment. The associated mobile devices are identified e.g. by their service carrier and cellular telephone number based on the driver s identification e.g. by querying the identification database s . In one embodiment the gathered information is provided to an Action Controller module to effectuate modifications on features functionalities of vehicle and or the mobile device s based on rules and environmental context.

One can use a separate code for personal identification of the user as an example. Each telephone can have a universal or a unique code for identification of the telephone. The user code and telephone codes can be added or combined. In one embodiment the directional antennas are used for detection of the location of the users or phones. In one embodiment the messages are re routed or stored in a remote place. In one embodiment multiple points transceivers of the car are used for sending signals and also multiple points are used for receiving the signals or reflections of the signals. In one embodiment the software and instructions codes are stored on a magnetic or storage media such as hard drive or memory stick to be run by a computing device or processor to implement the methods and steps taught in this disclosure.

In one embodiment the signal or task or message is forwarded to multiple users who may in the car or may be outside of the car away from the driver of the car e.g. in another car. In one embodiment for position detection for user or phone one can use a beacon using sound light or flashing light or tags using RFID to find and identify the objects. The range for detection can be expressed as length e.g. feet or meter or as voltage or current for the threshold of the detected signal as detected by the detectors sensors or receivers based on their prior calibrations so that it can be mapped to corresponding distances in terms of meter or feet for the thresholds for the detection purposes for users or phones.

In one embodiment GPS is used to find the relative or absolute positions of objects. In one embodiment one can turn off or on a device such as phone or a module in the phone or with a timer with delay or gradually reduce the voltage or current to zero e.g. using a slide or variable resistor. In one embodiment the monitoring is done using a continuous or periodic schedule triggered by a clock for example or manually by a user or third party so that if the phone is in out of the range or crosses the boundaries it can be detected in its new status and position.

In one embodiment RF communication is used between components or any other parts of spectrum. In one embodiment the restriction on speed of car is applied for the young driver. In one embodiment the notifications can go from the reverse directions as well based on teachings above i.e. from device A to B as an example rather than device B to A as in the teaching above or going through a proxy sending a notification to the server or central location e.g. for status location of the phone e.g. notification that if the phone is in the range or if it is outside the range.

In one embodiment a time difference between 2 or more reflected signals with respect to a base time of another signal e.g. original signal can be used to find the time delay or distance differences between different objects based on the speed of light or sound as the source to pinpoint different objects in the car and find independently verify the position of users and phones.

In one embodiment the features to be disabled or modified limited are speed dependent i.e. the speed of the vehicle or based on the age of the driver. In one embodiment the expiration time or extension time periods for modifying a feature can be speed dependent for example for different ranges of speed different ranges classes of features are disabled modified e.g. for low speed range sending SMS is disabled and at higher speed range receiving SMS is disabled as well.

In one embodiment Multimedia messaging service MMS movies video songs lectures books text and recorded voices can also be applied to this teaching here. In one embodiment a computer readable media is used to store the data or executable codes to run the software for the implementation of the methods and steps of this invention.

In one embodiment when a user plugs the phone to a battery charger at a vehicle the mobile device recognizes the power plug attachment event and inquiries the user to indicate whether the current location is in a vehicle on mobile device user interface or on the car user interface for example and or whether the user intends to drive. If the user indicates YES the mobile device modifies the features such as disabling SMS and or a message is sent to SMSC or a remote service to withhold messages and or calls. In one embodiment the mobile device user interface does not let the user proceed until the user answers the inquiry or the power cord is unplugged.

In one embodiment once the mobile device receives a message indicating total shut down from the localized transceiver it turns itself off after e.g. verifying the associate ID with the transceiver. For example this is used in a theater setting to reduce the unwanted disturbing calls during presentation.

In one embodiment instead of the SMS messages at SMSC the SMS messages are stored on the mobile device and the response that the user cannot respond in person is sent to the sender. In one embodiment SMSC sends similar message to the sender when storing and not forwarding the messages to the mobile device due to modification of the feature on the mobile device. In one embodiment the SMSC keeps track of the enablement and modification times of the mobile device and the senders so that it would send the automatic response to a sender only once if the feature has not since been enabled. This prevents a possible infinite loop of messages between disabled senders and receivers.

In one embodiment when the modifying feature is receiving telephone calls special answering reply is used at the answering service to indicate to the caller that e.g. The callee is currently driving and cannot accept a phone call. . In one embodiment once the mobile device features is being modified the mobile device or localized unit sends a message to a service at the telephone service provider with a code indicating e.g. to modify the reply message in answering service and or hold incoming calls and direct them straight to the answering service. In one embodiment the telephone service sends a message to the mobile device indicating that a call went straight to the answering service e.g. indicating to the user with a special audio tone sound.

In one embodiment when the modifying feature relates to phone calls or messaging and a car is equipped with hands free telephone and messaging features then messages and or calls are forwarded to the hands free device for example by forwarding the messages calls from the service provider carrier to the phone number or SIP address or other identifications associated with the hands free device.

In one embodiment when modifying a feature on a mobile device if a 2nd mobile device is available the limited functionality is used on the 2nd mobile device by forwarding calls and or messages to the 2nd mobile device directly from the limited mobile device e.g. via a communication link such as BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol . In one embodiment when the limitation is lifted the on going calls remain connected on the 2nd mobile device for continuity by e.g. continue to forward voice data from the 1st mobile device to the 2nd. On the completion of the phone call the new calls would not be forwarded to the 2nd mobile device. In one embodiment the limited feature mobile device recognizes other mobile devices e.g. in a piconet established via BLUETOOTH A wireless technology protocol and queries a preconfigured list of trusted mobile devices to determine whether the calls or messages can be forwarded to the 2nd mobile device. In one embodiment there is a priority settings used to determine which mobile device among available ones in the piconet should get the forwarded messages calls. In one embodiment the forwarding number person s name ID corresponding to the 2nd mobile phone is entered specified on demand in real time by the user or authority e.g. on 1st mobile device or from a car vehicle. In one embodiment the proximity the nearest phone to the driver or the closest passenger detected for example based on the RF power level or based on location determination by other methods mentioned here in this disclosure is used to identify assign the 2nd mobile phone for this purpose.

In one embodiment the sound goes from top speakers in the car for telephone voice or music to speakers on the foot level underneath or transfer the sound to speakers on the back seats to focus de focus and alert the user or listener driver about the telephone or put more focus on the road to prevent accidents.

In one embodiment the smart cards or tags magnetic IDs are read by a reader in contact or remotely to identify the person or role e.g. parent based on a connected database e.g. to show the relationships between people e.g. names of children and parents connected referred to in the database or otherwise found on the smart cards or tags of the parent or child e.g. mentioning the ID card or number code for the other person i.e. the child or parent respectively pointing to the other person as a method of verification or locating the other person to activate the rules and proximity conditions e.g. when the passenger is the parent and the driver is the kid in which case some restrictions on the kid is relaxed or e.g. the calls are forwarded to the parent s phone automatically. In one embodiment when two cards are in the vicinity of each other they signal each other to recognize each other having antennas and also power source at least on one of them for the conditions mentioned above to recognize that the parent is sitting next to the kid driver.

Wherever a vehicle is used in this disclosure the teaching may be generalized to other enclosures such as train airplane boat metro rail bus trucks air borne or sea borne vessel or air traffic controller or un manned airplane controller seating areas.

The tasks in this disclosure can be implemented performed by software hardware firmware or a combination in a local central or remote location partially or fully.

This invention can apply to any functions for any mobile device. It does not have to be limited to a vehicle or car. The driver can be generalized as the user. The passenger can be generalized as the 2class of users. The parents can be generalized as authority police owner boss or government.

All data information including executable codes scripts programs tasks are stored in one or more storages in various modules and systems described in this disclosure. In addition the systems and modules have various processing units CPUs to execute run such executables. The communication and data transfers are performed via wireless wired optical sound voice medium and devices. For example using voice recognition and pattern recognition devices can be used to recognize an individual s voice or sounds e.g. notes whistles commands or statements to for example initiate an event to be performed by various devices and processes running on those devices e.g. SMS forwarding .

A system an apparatus a device or an article of manufacture comprising one of the following items or features mentioned above is an example of this invention. A method comprising one of the following steps features or items mentioned above is an example of this invention. Any variations of the above teaching are also intended to be covered by this patent application.

