---

title: Graphene transistor
abstract: A transistor includes a silicon carbide crystal () having a silicon terminated face (). A semiconducting-type graphene layer () is bonded to the silicon terminated face (). A first semimetallic-type graphene layer () is contiguous with a first portion of the semiconducting-type graphene layer (). A second semimetallic-type graphene layer () is contiguous with a second portion of the semiconducting-type graphene layer () that is spaced apart from the first portion. An insulator layer () is disposed on a portion of the semiconducting-type graphene layer (). A gate conductive layer () disposed on the insulator layer () and spaced apart from the semiconducting-type graphene layer ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171907&OS=09171907&RS=09171907
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 09171907
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120926
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 539 664 filed Sep. 27 2011 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This application claims the benefit of International Patent Application No. PCT US12 57249 filed Sep. 26 2012 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under agreement No. DMR 082382 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Microelectronic circuits are fundamental to virtually all digital systems in existence. Current circuit technology employs semiconductor transistors that are coupled to each other with conductors such as metal and polysilicon. Electrical current flowing through such conductors results in heat generation. A circuit density increases heat generation becomes an increasingly significant problem.

One area currently being explored involves nano scale carbon based circuitry. For example carbon nanotubes have the property of ballistic charge transport in which when current flows through a nanotube almost no heat is generated. Unfortunately because carbon nanotubes cannot currently be grown in a pattern corresponding to a desired practical scale circuit use of carbon nanotube circuits are not currently seen as a viable solution.

Recently graphene circuits have been proposed. Graphene is an allotrope of carbon that is only one atom thick. Graphene circuits employ a substantially flat graphene layer that has been patterned using conventional micro electronic lithographic patterning techniques. The graphene can be patterned into channels with dimensions approximating the dimensions of carbon nanotubes thereby achieving near ballistic charge transport properties.

One difficulty currently experienced with graphene based electronics is that graphene behaves as a semimetal and not a semiconductor. As a result most graphene transistors do not effectively function as switches due to large source to drain leakage currents. As a result most attempts at making graphene transistors result in transistors that cannot be switched off. This problem has been approached by several different methods. In one method very narrow graphene ribbons are produced which are often observed to have a band gap. In another method attempts have been made to chemically functionalize graphene to give the functionalized regions of the graphene semiconductor properties. These approaches have not yet yielded graphene transistors that can be used in practical applications.

Therefore there is a need for graphene based transistors in which regions of the graphene have semiconducting properties. There is also a need for a method of making semiconducting graphene.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a transistor that includes a silicon carbide crystal having a silicon terminated face. A semiconducting type graphene layer is bonded to the silicon terminated face. A first semimetallic type graphene layer is contiguous with a first portion of the semiconducting type graphene layer. A second semimetallic type graphene layer is contiguous with a second portion of the semiconducting type graphene layer that is spaced apart from the first portion. An insulator layer is disposed on a portion of the semiconducting type graphene layer. A gate conductive layer disposed on the insulator layer and spaced apart from the semiconducting type graphene layer.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making a transistor in which a semiconducting type graphene layer is formed on a silicon terminated face of a silicon carbide crystal. At least one semimetallic type graphene layer is formed adjacent to the silicon carbide crystal so that the semimetallic type graphene layer is contiguous with the semiconducting type graphene layer. An insulator layer is applied on a portion of the semiconducting layer. A conductor layer is applied to the insulator layer.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

Methods of making thin film graphene on silicon carbide crystals through annealing are shown in U.S. Pat. No. 7 015 142 and in U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2009 0226638 A1 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As shown in one embodiment of a transistor is formed on a silicon terminated face e.g. the 0001 face of a silicon carbide crystal . A mask may be applied to the silicon terminated face which is then subject to an etching process e.g. oxygen plasma etching chemical etching ion beam etching etc. so as to form a raised portion having opposing sidewalls . Because the sidewalls are transverse to the silicon terminated face they are not silicon terminated. As shown in the resulting crystal is subjected to an annealing process e.g. by heating it to a temperature of between 1000 C. and 2000 C. in a partial vacuum that causes silicon atoms to evaporate from the crystal leaving a layer 0 type graphene layer referred to as a buffer layer on the silicon terminated face and a layer of 1 type graphene layer on the sidewalls . The layer 0 type graphene layer is contiguous with the layer 1 type graphene layer and the junction between the two layers is seamless. Because the layer 0 type graphene layer is bonded directly to the silicon terminated face of the crystal it exhibits the properties of a semiconductor such that it exhibits a band gap of about 0.3 eV 0.5 EV. Because the layer 1 type graphene layer on the sidewalls is not bonded to a silicon terminated face it exhibits semimetallic properties and can act as a conductor. The top most layers of graphene whether layer 0 type or layer 1 type will be contiguous and join seamlessly.

As shown in a dielectric insulator layer is deposited on a top portion of the layer 0 type graphene layer and a first conductor layer e.g. a metal layer is deposited on the dielectric insulator layer . Together these two layers form a gate . A second conductor layer is deposited on one of the layer 1 type graphene layers to form a source contact and a third conductor layer is deposited on one of the layer 1 type graphene layers to form a drain contact. This structure can be modeled as a transistor as shown in .

In another embodiment as shown in at least two graphene layers are grown on the silicon terminated face of a silicon carbide crystal through a first annealing process in which silicon atoms are evaporated from the surface of the crystal . The graphene layers include a layer 0 type layer that is bonded to the silicon terminated face and at least one layer 1 type layer that is bonded to the layer 0 type layer . As shown in an area is etched into the two layers thereby exposing a portion of the silicon terminated face of the silicon carbide crystal . In one example an oxygen plasma etch is employed. As shown in a second layer 0 type graphene layer is then grown on the exposed portion of the silicon terminated face through a second annealing process. This layer 0 type graphene layer acts as a semiconductor whereas the remaining layer 1 type graphene layers have semimetallic conducting properties. A gate structure as described above is deposited on to the second layer 0 type graphene layer and a source contact and a drain contact are deposited on to the layer 1 type graphene layers as shown in .

In yet another embodiment as shown in a graphene buffer layer is grown on a silicon terminated face of a silicon carbide crystal . As shown in the surface of the silicon carbide crystal is passivated by subjecting it to a hydrogen gas environment thereby forming a passivated silicon carbide surface . As a result the bonds between the silicon carbide crystal and the graphene layer are broken and the graphene layer is now a layer 0 type layer which may be referred to as passivated graphene which is quasi free standing and which acts as a semimetallic layer. In one experimental example the hydrogen rich environment included a one atmosphere partial pressure of hydrogen and the graphene layer was heated to about 550 C. for about 75 minutes in the hydrogen rich environment. As shown in an opening is etched to expose a portion of the silicon terminated face . As shown in a second annealing results in a second layer 0 type graphene layer forming on the exposed portion of the silicon terminated face which couples seamlessly to the layer 0 type graphene layer . A gate structure as described above is deposited on to the layer 0 type graphene layer and a source contact and a drain contact are deposited on to the layer 0 type graphene layers as shown in . A portion of the layer 0 type graphene layer can be converted back to layer 0 type graphene by subjecting it to a hydrogen poor environment e.g. a partial vacuum and heating it e.g. to about 900 C. for a predetermined amount of time.

The above embodiments may employ one of many known patterning processes to generate complex integrated circuits. When the sources and drains of the above disclosed transistors are subjected to a suitable bias voltage and when the gates are subjected to a gate voltage the resulting field generated by the gate will cause current to flow through the semiconducting layer 0 type graphene subjected to the field. Thus these transistors act as switches thereby making them suitable for digital circuit applications.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

