---

title: Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists
abstract: 

as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, that are potentially useful for treating aldosterone-mediated diseases. The invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of the Formula I, to their possible use in the treatment of the abovementioned diseases and for preparing pharmaceuticals for this purpose, and to pharmaceutical compositions which comprise compounds of the Formula I.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09505730&OS=09505730&RS=09505730
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09505730
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121008
---
This application claims benefit to provisional application U.S. Ser. No. 61 546 747 filed on 13 Oct. 2011 herein incorporated by reference.

The Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR is a nuclear hormone receptor that is activated by aldosterone and regulates the expression of many genes involved in electrolyte homeostasis and cardiovascular disease. Increased circulating aldosterone increases blood pressure through its effects on natriuresis with potentially additional effects on the brain heart and vasculature. In addition hyperaldosteronism have been linked to many pathophysiological processes resulting in renal and cardiovascular disease. While hyperaldosteronism is commonly caused by aldosterone producing adenomas resistant hypertensive patients frequently suffer from increased aldosterone levels often termed as Aldosterone Breakthrough as a result of increases in serum potassium or residual AT1R activity. Hyperaldosteronism and aldosterone breakthrough typically results in increased MR activity and MR antagonists have been shown to be effective as anti hypertensive agents and also in the treatment of heart failure and primary hyperaldosteronism.

In addition in visceral tissues such as the kidney and the gut MR regulates sodium retention potassium excretion and water balance in response to aldosterone. MR expression in the brain also appears to play a role in the control of neuronal excitability in the negative feedback regulation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis and in the cognitive aspects of behavioral performance Castren et al. J. of Neuroendocrinology 3 461 66 1993 .

Eplerenone and spironolactone are two MR antagonists that have been shown to be efficacious in treating cardiovascular disease particularly hypertension and heart failure RALES Investigators 1999 The Effect of Spironolactone on Morbidity and Mortality in Patients with Severe Heart Failure N. Engl. J. Med. 1999 341 10 709 717 Pitt B et al. EPHESUS investigator 2003 Eplerenone a Selective Aldosterone Blocker in Patients with Left Ventricular Dysfunction After Myocardial Infarction N. Engl. J. Med. 348 14 1309 1321 Funder J W. 2010 Eplerenone in Chronic Renal Disease the EVALUATE trial Hypertens. Res. 33 6 539 40. . Moreover multiple studies have shown that treatment with spironolactone or eplerenone significantly lower systolic blood pressure in mild moderate obese systolic PHA and resistant hypertensive patients Calhoun D A et al. 2008 Effectiveness of the Selective Aldosterone Blocker Eplerenone in Patients with Resistant Hypertension J. Am. Soc. Hypertens. 2008 November December 2 6 462 8 Huang B S et al. 2010 Central Neuronal Activation and Pressor Responses Induced by Circulating ANG II role of the brain aldosterone ouabain pathway Am. J. Physiol. Heart. Circ. Physiol. 2 H422 30 The RALES Investigators. 1996 Effectiveness of Spironolactone added to an Angiotensin converting enzyme Inhibitor and a Loop Diuretic for Severe Chronic Congestive Heart Failure The Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study RALES Am. J. Cardiol. 1996 78 902 907 Pitt B et al. EPHESUS Investigators Serum potassium and clinical outcomes in the Eplerenone Post Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study EPHESUS Circulation 2008 Oct. 14 118 16 1643 50 Bomback A S et al. 2009 Low dose spironolactone added to long term ACE inhibitor therapy reduces blood pressure and urinary albumin excretion in obese patients with hypertensive target organ damage Clin. Nephrol. 72 6 449 56 Williams J S Hypertension spironolactone and resistant hypertension Nat. Rev. Endocrinol. 2010 May 6 5 248 50 Nishizaka M K et al. The role of aldosterone antagonists in the management of resistant hypertension. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2005 October 7 5 343 7. Review Gaddam K et al. 2010 Rapid reversal of left ventricular hypertrophy and intracardiac volume overload in patients with resistant hypertension and hyperaldosteronism a prospective clinical study Hypertension 55 5 1137 42 Zannad F et al. 2010 Rationale and design of the Eplerenone in Mild Patients Hospitalization And Survival Study in Heart Failure EMPHASIS HF Eur. J. Heart Fail. 12 6 617 22 .

Evidence in preclinical models also suggests that MR antagonists would be efficacious in treating the metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis Takai S. et al 2005 Eplerenone inhibits atherosclerosis in nonhuman primates. Hypertension. 46 5 1135 9 Tirosh A. et al. GK. 2010 Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and the metabolic syndrome. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2010 August 12 4 252 7 .

Also published PCT application WO 2002 17895 disclosed that aldosterone antagonists are useful in the treatment of subjects suffering from one or more cognitive dysfunctions including but not limited to psychoses cognitive disorders such as memory disturbances mood disorders such as depression and bipolar disorder anxiety disorders and personality disorders.

Elevation in aldosterone levels or excess stimulation of mineralocorticoid receptors is linked to several physiological disorders or pathologic disease states including Conn s Syndrome primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism increased sodium retention increased magnesium and potassium excretion diuresis increased water retention hypertension isolated systolic and combined systolic diastolic arrhythmias myocardial fibrosis myocardial infarction Bartter s Syndrome and disorders associated with excess catecholamine levels. Hadley M. E. ENDOCRINOLOGY 2Ed. pp. 366 81 1988 and Brilla et al. Journal of Molecular and Cellular Cardiology 25 5 pp. 563 75 1993 . Compounds and or pharmaceutical compositions which act as MR antagonists might be expected to be of value in the treatment of any of the above conditions.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure the current standard of care is suboptimal and there is a clear unmet medical need for additional therapeutic pharmacological interventions. This invention addresses those needs by providing compounds compositions and possible methods for the treatment of hypertension heart failure other cardiovascular disorders and other aldosterone disorders.

The present invention relates to compounds which have Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR antagonist activity which have the potential to be valuable pharmaceutically active compounds for the possible treatment of diseases for example for treating aldosterone mediated disorders including cardiovascular disease. The present invention is directed to compounds of the Formula I 

In a further embodiment the invention is directed to compounds of Formula I having structural Formula II 

In a further embodiment the invention is directed to compounds of Formula I having structural Formula III 

As used herein except where noted alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl means carbocycles containing no heteroatoms. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl decahydronaphthyl and the like. Commonly used abbreviations for alkyl groups are used throughout the specification e.g. methyl may be represented by conventional abbreviations including Me or CHor a symbol that is an extended bond without defined terminal group e.g. ethyl may be represented by Et or CHCH propyl may be represented by Pr or CHCHCH butyl may be represented by Bu or CHCHCHCH etc. Calkyl or C Calkyl for example means linear or branched chain alkyl groups including all isomers having the specified number of carbon atoms. Calkyl includes all of the hexyl alkyl and pentyl alkyl isomers as well as n iso sec and t butyl n and isopropyl ethyl and methyl. C 4 alkyl means n iso sec and t butyl n and isopropyl ethyl and methyl. If no number is specified 1 10 carbon atoms are intended for linear or branched alkyl groups. The phrase Calkyl wherein the alkyl group may be unsubstituted or substituted with 1 3 fluorine atoms refers to alkyl groups having 0 1 2 or 3 fluorine atoms attached to one or more carbon atoms. The group CF for example is a methyl group having three fluorine atoms attached the same carbon atom.

As used herein Calkoxy refers to an alkyl group bonded to an oxygen. For example Calkoxy is methoxy group OCH Calkoxy is an ethoxy group OCHCH and the like.

 Aryl unless otherwise indicated means mono and bicyclic aromatic rings containing 6 12 carbon atoms. Examples of aryl include but are not limited to phenyl naphthyl indenyl and the like. Aryl also includes monocyclic rings fused to an aryl group. Examples include dihydroindenyl tetrahydronaphthalenyl indanyl and the like. In an embodiment the preferred aryl is phenyl or indenyl.

 Heteroaryl unless otherwise indicated means a mono or bicyclic aromatic ring or ring system having 5 to 10 atoms and containing at least one heteroatom selected from O S and N. Examples include but are not limited to pyrrolyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrazolyl pyridyl pyridinyl oxazolyl oxadiazolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl furanyl triazinyl thienyl pyrimidyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl and the like. Heteroaryl also includes aromatic heterocyclic groups fused to heterocycles that are non aromatic or partially aromatic and aromatic heterocyclic groups fused to cycloalkyl rings. Additional examples of heteroaryls include but are not limited to indazolyl thienopyrazolyl imidazopyridazinyl pyrazolopyrazolyl pyrazolopyridinyl imidazopyridinyl and imidazothiazolyl. Heteroaryl also includes such groups in charged form e.g. pyridinium. In an embodiment heteroaryl is oxadiazolyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl pyridinyl and imidazolyl

 Heterocyclyl unless otherwise indicated means a 4 5 or 6 membered monocyclic saturated ring containing at least one heteroatom selected from N S and O in which the point of attachment may be carbon or nitrogen. Examples of heterocyclyl include but are not limited to azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl oxazolidinyl imidazolidinyl 2 3 dihydrofuro 2 3 b pyridyl benzoxazinyl and the like. The term also includes partially unsaturated monocyclic rings that are not aromatic such as 2 or 4 pyridones attached through the nitrogen or N substituted 1H 3H pyrimidine 2 4 diones N substituted uracils . Heterocyclyl moreover includes such moieties in charged form e.g. piperidinium. In an embodiment heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl and oxazolidinyl.

 Halogen or halo unless otherwise indicated includes fluorine fluoro chlorine chloro bromine bromo and iodine iodo . In one embodiment halo is fluorine or chlorine.

By oxo is meant the functional group O which is an oxygen atom connected to the molecule via a double bond such as for example 1 C O that is a carbonyl group 2 S O that is a sulfoxide group and 3 N O that is an N oxide group such as pyridyl N oxide.

Unless expressly stated to the contrary substitution by a named substituent is permitted on any atom in a ring e.g. aryl a heteroaryl ring or a saturated heterocyclic ring provided such ring substitution is chemically allowed and results in a stable compound. A stable compound is a compound which can be prepared and isolated and whose structure and properties remain or can be caused to remain essentially unchanged for a period of time sufficient to allow use of the compound for the purposes described herein e.g. therapeutic or prophylactic administration to a subject .

Reference to the compounds of structural Formula I includes the compounds of other generic structural Formulae that fall within the scope of Formula I including but not limited to Formula II Formula III and Formula IV.

When any variable e.g. R R R etc. occurs more than one time in any constituent or in Formula I its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence. Also combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds.

Under standard nomenclature used throughout this disclosure the terminal portion of the designated side chain is described first followed by the adjacent functionality toward the point of attachment. For example a Calkylcarbonylamino Calkyl substituent is equivalent to

In choosing compounds of the present invention one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the various substituents i.e. R R R R etc. are to be chosen in conformity with well known principles of chemical structure connectivity and stability.

The term substituted shall be deemed to include multiple degrees of substitution by a named substituent. Where multiple substituent moieties are disclosed or claimed the substituted compound can be independently substituted by one or more of the disclosed or claimed substituent moieties singly or plurally. By independently substituted it is meant that the two or more substituents can be the same or different.

Where a substituent or variable has multiple definitions it is understood that the substituent or variable is defined as being selected from the group consisting of the indicated definitions.

Compounds of structural Formula I may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. The present invention is meant to comprehend all such isomeric forms of the compounds of structural Formula I.

Compounds of structural Formula I may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by for example fractional crystallization from a suitable solvent for example methanol or ethyl acetate or a mixture thereof or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute configuration.

Alternatively any stereoisomer or isomers of a compound of the general structural Formula I may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known absolute configuration.

If desired racemic mixtures of the compounds may be separated so that the individual enantiomers are isolated. The separation can be carried out by methods well known in the art such as the coupling of a racemic mixture of compounds to an enantiomerically pure compound to form a diastereoisomeric mixture followed by separation of the individual diastereoisomers by standard methods such as fractional crystallization or chromatography. The coupling reaction is often the formation of salts using an enantiomerically pure acid or base. The diasteromeric derivatives may then be converted to the pure enantiomers by cleavage of the added chiral residue. The racemic mixture of the compounds can also be separated directly by chromatographic methods utilizing chiral stationary phases which methods are well known in the art.

For compounds described herein which contain olefinic double bonds unless specified otherwise they are meant to include both E and Z geometric isomers.

Some of the compounds described herein may exist as tautomers which have different points of attachment of hydrogen accompanied by one or more double bond shifts. For example a ketone and its enol form are keto enol tautomers. The individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are encompassed with compounds of the present invention.

In the compounds of structural Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominately found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of structural Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H also denoted as D . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within structural Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates. Thus the present invention covers isotopically enriched compounds including deuterated compounds.

The present invention includes all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have S configuration or R configuration. The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at the stage of the compounds of the Formula I or at the stage of an intermediate during the synthesis. The present invention also includes all tautomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I.

The present invention includes all atropisomer forms of the compounds of Formula I. Atropisomers are stereoisomers resulting from hindered rotation about single bonds where the steric strain barrier to rotation is high enough to allow for the isolation of the conformers. Atropisomers display axial chirality. Separation of atropisomers is possibly by chiral resolution methods such as selective crystallization.

It will be understood that as used herein references to the compounds of structural Formula I are meant to also include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts and also salts that are not pharmaceutically acceptable when they are used as precursors to the free compounds or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts or in other synthetic manipulations.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts of basic compounds encompassed within the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refer to non toxic salts of the compounds of this invention which are generally prepared by reacting the free base with a suitable organic or inorganic acid. Representative salts of basic compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to the following acetate ascorbate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide butyrate camphorate camphorsulfonate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate methanesulfonate mucate napsylate nitrate N methylglucamine ammonium salt oleate oxalate pamoate embonate palmitate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate propionate salicylate stearate sulfate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate thiocyanate tosylate triethiodide valerate and the like. Furthermore where the compounds of the invention carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof include but are not limited to salts derived from inorganic bases including aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic mangamous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines cyclic amines dicyclohexyl amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like.

Also in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH or alcohol group being present in the compounds of the present invention pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acid derivatives such as methyl ethyl or pivaloyloxymethyl or acyl derivatives of alcohols such as O acetyl O pivaloyl O benzoyl and O aminoacyl can be employed. Included are those esters and acyl groups known in the art for modifying the solubility or hydrolysis characteristics for use as sustained release or prodrug formulations.

Solvates and the hydrates of the compounds of structural Formula I are included in the present invention as well.

If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

In an embodiment Ris independently halo C Calkyl or OR wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from halo OR CF or CN. In a further embodiment Ris independently halo or C Calkyl. In another embodiment Ris independently halo.

In an embodiment each Ris independently H or C Calkyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from C Calkyl halo OR CF or CN. In another embodiment each Ris H.

In an embodiment each Ris independently H C Calkyl or C Ccycloalkyl wherein said alkyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from halo OR CF or CN. In another embodiment each Ris independently H or C Calkyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from halo OR CF or CN. In a further embodiment each Ris independently H or C Calkyl.

In an embodiment Ris H C Calkyl or C Ccycloalkyl where said alkyl or cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one to three groups selected from C Calkyl halo OR CF or CN. In another embodiment Ris H or C Calkyl. In a further embodiment Ris H.

In an embodiment Ris CR aryl C Ccycloalkyl or CR heteroaryl where said aryl cycloalkyl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one to four groups selected from C Calkyl OR halo CF or aryl. In another embodiment Ris CR phenyl C Ccycloalkyl or CR heteroaryl where said phenyl cycloalkyl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one to four groups selected from C Calkyl OR halo CF or phenyl. In a further embodiment Ris CR phenyl C Ccycloalkyl or CR pyridinyl where said phenyl cycloalkyl or pyridinyl is optionally substituted with one to four groups selected from C Calkyl OR halo CF or phenyl. In a further embodiment Ris CR phenyl or CR pyridinyl where said phenyl or pyridinyl is optionally substituted with one to four groups selected from OR halo CF or phenyl.

In an embodiment Ris C Calkyl aryl C Ccycloalkyl where said alkyl aryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted with one to four groups selected from C Calkyl halo CF or OR. In another embodiment Ris 1 C Calkyl 2 aryl where aryl is selected from phenyl dihydroindenyl or tetrahydronaphthalenyl or 3 C Ccycloalkyl where said alkyl aryl or cycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one to four groups selected from C Calkyl halo CF or OR. In a further embodiment Ris 1 C Calkyl 2 aryl where aryl is selected from phenyl dihydroindenyl or tetrahydronaphthalenyl or 3 cyclohexyl where said alkyl aryl or cyclohexyl is optionally substituted with one to four groups selected from C Calkyl or halo.

The present invention also relates to processes for the preparation of the compounds of Formula I which are described in the following and by which the compounds of the invention are obtainable.

The compounds of the Formula I according to the invention competitively antagonize the aldosterone receptor MR and they therefore might be useful agents for the therapy of disorders related to increased aldosterone levels. The ability for the compounds of Formula I to antagonize MR can be examined for example in the activity assay described below.

One aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a compound in accordance with Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof which might be useful in a method of treatment of the human or animal body by therapy.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a compound in accordance with Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof which might be useful as an anti hypertensive agent in a human or animal.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a possible method of treating cardiovascular disease heart failure hypertension atherosclerosis primary hyperaldostemoism or a related condition in a human patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a possible method of treating metabolic syndrome in a mammal in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest relates to a possible method of treating a physiological or pathologic disease selected from including Conn s Syndrome primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism increased sodium retention increased magnesium and potassium excretion diuresis increased water retention hypertension isolated systolic and combined systolic diastolic arrhythmias myocardial fibrosis myocardial infarction Bartter s Syndrome and disorders associated with excess catecholamine levels in a human patient in need of such treatment comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a possible method of treating renal failure in a human patient in need of such treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

Another aspect of the invention that is of interest is a possible method of treating hypertension including but not limited to essential hypertension resistant hypertension systolic hypertension pulmonary arterial hypertension and the like.

Additionally another aspect of the invention is a possible method of treating hypertension in an obese animal or human.

Additionally another aspect of the invention is a possible method of treating hypertension in a diabetic animal or human.

Another aspect of the present invention potentially is the prevention or prophylaxis of one or more disease states associated with inhibiting the MR by administering an effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt to a mammal in need thereof.

The compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts can be administered to animals preferably to mammals and in particular to humans as pharmaceuticals by themselves in mixtures with one another or in the form of pharmaceutical preparations. The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment prevention to prevent or reduce the risk of said disease or medical condition.

A subject of the present invention therefore also are the compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as pharmaceuticals their use for antagonizing mineralocorticoid receptors and in particular their use in the therapy and prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

The terms therapeutically effective or efficacious amount and similar descriptions such as an amount efficacious for treatment are intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The terms prophylactically effective or efficacious amount and similar descriptions such as an amount efficacious for prevention are intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The terms preventing or prevention as used herein refer to administering a compound of Formula I or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt before the onset of clinical symptoms. As an example the dosage a patient receives can be selected so as to achieve the desired reduction in blood pressure the dosage a patient receives may also be titrated over time in order to reach a target blood pressure. The dosage regimen utilizing a compound of the instant invention is selected in accordance with a variety of factors including type species age weight sex and medical condition of the patient the severity of the condition to be treated the potency of the compound chosen to be administered the route of administration and the renal and hepatic function of the patient. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of myocardial infarction.

Furthermore a subject of the present invention are pharmaceutical preparations or pharmaceutical compositions which comprise as active component an effective dose of at least one compound of the Formula I and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier i.e. one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier substances and or additives.

Thus subjects of the invention are for example said compound and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts for use as a pharmaceutical pharmaceutical preparations which comprise as an active component a therapeutically effective dose of said compound and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a customary pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and the uses of said compound and or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the therapy or prophylaxis of the abovementioned syndromes as well as their use for preparing medicaments for these purposes.

The pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention can be administered orally for example in the form of pills tablets lacquered tablets sugar coated tablets granules hard and soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions syrups emulsions or suspensions or rectally for example in the form of suppositories. Administration can also be carried out parenterally for example subcutaneously intramuscularly or intravenously in the form of solutions for injection or infusion. Other suitable administration forms are for example percutaneous or topical administration for example in the form of ointments tinctures sprays or transdermal therapeutic systems or the inhalative administration in the form of nasal sprays or aerosol mixtures or for example microcapsules implants or rods. The preferred administration form depends for example on the disease to be treated and on its severity.

The amount of active compound of the Formula I and or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical preparations normally is from 0.2 to 700 mg preferably from 1 to 500 mg per dose but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical preparation it can also be higher. The pharmaceutical preparations usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the compounds of the Formula I and or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. The preparation of the pharmaceutical preparations can be carried out in a manner known per se. For this purpose one or more compounds of the Formula I and or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts together with one or more solid or liquid pharmaceutical carrier substances and or additives or auxiliary substances and if desired in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds having therapeutic or prophylactic action are brought into a suitable administration form or dosage form which can then be used as a pharmaceutical in human or veterinary medicine.

For the production of pills tablets sugar coated tablets and hard gelatin capsules it is possible to use for example lactose starch for example maize starch or starch derivatives talc stearic acid or its salts etc. Carriers for soft gelatin capsules and suppositories are for example fats waxes semisolid and liquid polyols natural or hardened oils etc. Suitable carriers for the preparation of solutions for example of solutions for injection or of emulsions or syrups are for example water physiologically sodium chloride solution alcohols such as ethanol glycerol polyols sucrose invert sugar glucose mannitol vegetable oils etc. It is also possible to lyophilize the compounds of the Formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts and to use the resulting lyophilisates for example for preparing preparations for injection or infusion. Suitable carriers for microcapsules implants or rods are for example copolymers of glycolic acid and lactic acid.

Besides the active compounds and carriers the pharmaceutical preparations can also contain customary additives for example fillers disintegrants binders lubricants wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners diluents buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

The dosage of the active compound of the Formula I to be administered and or of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to compounds of the Formula I. In general a daily dose of approximately 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably 0.01 to 10 mg kg in particular 0.3 to 5 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose can be administered in a single dose or in particular when larger amounts are administered be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose.

The compounds of the Formula I bind to the mineralocorticoid receptor and antagonize the biological effects of aldosterone and cortisol. On account of this property apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on the mineralocorticoid receptor is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of the Formula I and salts thereof can furthermore be employed as already mentioned above as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

The above mentioned compounds are also of use in combination with other pharmacologically active compounds. Additional active compounds that may be used in combination with the compounds of the instant invention either co administered or in a fixed combination include but are not limited to the following pharmaceutically acceptable salts metabolites solvates prodrugs or polymorphs thereof angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin 11 receptor antagonists e.g. losartan valsartan candesartan olmesartan telmesartan neutral endopeptidase inhibitors enallcrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists vasodilators calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine veraparmil diltiazem gallopamil niludipine nimodipins nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide chlorthalidone furosemide sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. propranolol atenolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol or metoprolol tartate alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine lipid lowering agents e.g. niacin HMG Co A reductase inhibitors metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds e.g. muraglitazar glipizide metformin rosiglitazone or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including nitroprusside and diazoxide.

Examples of other active ingredients that may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I and either administered separately or in the same pharmaceutical composition include but are not limited to 

One or more additional active agents may be administered with the compounds described herein. The additional active agent or agents can be lipid modifying compounds or agents having other pharmaceutical activities or agents that have both lipid modifying effects and other pharmaceutical activities. Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors which include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 dihydroxy open acid simvastatin particularly the ammonium or calcium salts thereof pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin also known as CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 HMG CoA synthase inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT 1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors endothelial lipase inhibitors bile acid sequestrants LDL receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR gamma agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidine diones as well as those PPAR gamma agonists outside the thiazolidine dione structural class PPAR alpha agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin. B also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers diuretics e.g. chlorthalidone hydrochlorothiazide sympatholitics endothelin antagonists agents that enhance ABCA1 gene expression cholesteryl ester transfer protein CETP inhibiting compounds including anacetrapib 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP inhibiting compounds 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO inhibiting compounds farnesoid X receptor FXR ligands including both antagonists and agonists Liver X Receptor LXR alpha ligands LXR beta ligands bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as rofecoxib and celecoxib and compounds that attenuate vascular inflammation.

Throughout the synthetic schemes and examples abbreviations are used with the following meanings unless otherwise indicated 

Reaction schemes 1 5 illustrate the methods employed in the synthesis of the compounds of Formula I. All abbreviations are as defined above unless indicated otherwise. In the Schemes all substituents are as defined above in Formula I unless indicated otherwise.

Synthetic methods for preparing the compounds of the present invention are illustrated in the following Schemes and Examples. Starting materials are commercially available or may be made according to procedures known in the art or as illustrated herein.

As depicted in SCHEME 5 carboxylic acid 5a was coupled with ammonia under standard HATU peptide coupling conditions. Copper mediated N arylation of amide 5b with bromopyridine 5c afforded primary amide 5d which was treated with an isocyanate 1c and cyclized intramolecularly to give oxazolidine dione 5e.

As depicted in SCHEME 6 amino malonate 6a is treated with benzyl bromide in the presence of base such as sodium ethoxide in a suitable solvent such as ethanol to provide 6b. Removal of the Boc protecting group using acid such as trifluoroacetic acid affords amine 6c. Amine 6c is reacted with an appropriate isocyanate such as 6h in a suitable solvent such as N N dimethyformamide in the presence of base such as N N diisopropylethylamine to afford urea 6d. Urea 6d is converted to 6e by treatment of 6d with base such as aqueous lithium hydroxide in a suitable solvent such as methanol tetrahydrofuran or a combination of both. 6g can be prepared by treatment of 6e with substituted amines by a variety of methods familiar to those skilled in the art to afford amide 6f which upon chiral SFC separation gave a single diastereomer 6g.

The following examples are provided so that the invention might be more fully understood. Unless otherwise indicated the starting materials are commercially available. They should not be construed as limiting the invention in any way.

The following examples are provided to more fully illustrate the present invention and shall not be construed as limiting the scope in any manner. Unless stated otherwise 

In the Tables in the following Examples compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

A mixture of diethyl benzylpropanedioate 41 g and CsF 49.8 g in 90 mL of DMF was heated at 40 C. with vigorous air bubbling for 3 days. The resulting mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 800 mL and washed with water 1 L 3 . The organic layer was concentrated and then purified by Biotage silica gel column chromatography 5 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title product as a colorless oil. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.22 7.26 m 5H 4.23 q J 7.2 Hz 4H 3.80 br 1H 3.35 s 2H 1.26 t J 7.2 Hz 6H .

To a mixture of NaOH 25 g and 15.7 g of activated molecular sieves in 1159 mL of THF at 0 C. was added a 1159 mL THF solution of diethyl benzyl hydroxy propanedioate 153 g . After 5 min to this mixture was added 1R 1 isocyanatoethyl benzene 118 g . The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min and then warmed to rt and stirred for 4 h. The reaction mixture was directly purified by Biotage silica gel column chromatography 5 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title compound.

To the mixture of ethyl 5 benzyl 2 4 dioxo 3 1R 1 phenylethyl 1 3 oxazolidine 5 carboxylate 70 mg and 3 5 dimethoxybenzyl amine 64 mg was added 2 mL of MeOH and 1 mL DCE. The mixture was heated at 65 C. for overnight. After removal of solvent the residue was purified by Biotage silica gel column chromatography 10 20 ethyl acetate in hexanes purification to give the desired compound as a mixture of two diastereomers. The two diastereomers was submitted to chiral SFC separation using OD H 15 MeOH CO2 4.6 250 mm 100 bar 40 C. to give two separated diastereomers. The more potent one is listed as the title compound. LC MS 489.0 M 1 . 1050 value A rating

Using the techniques described in Example 1 but replacing 3 5 dimethoxybenzyl amine with 3 4 dichlorobenzyl amine diethyl benzylpropanedioate with diethyl 4 fluorobenzylpropanedioate and 1R 1 isocyanatoethyl benzene with 1R 1 isocyanatoethyl 4 fluorobenzene compound 2 of Table 1 was prepared. Also using the techniques described in Example 1 but replacing diethyl benzylpropanedioate with diethyl 4 fluorobenzylpropanedioate compound 3 of Table 1 was prepared.

The purification of 100 g of ethyl 5 benzyl 2 4 dioxo 3 1R 1 phenylethyl 1 3 oxazolidine 5 carboxylate as described in Example 1 Step B by chiral SFC following the conditions below provided the title compound as a single diastereomer.

1H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.170 7.253 m 8H 6.957 6.980 m 2H 5.018 q J 7.2 Hz 1H 4.196 4.337 m 2H 3.545 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 3.401 d J 14.4 Hz 1H 1.503 d J 7.6 Hz 3H 1.242 t J 7.6 Hz 3H .

Using the same procedure described for the preparation of Example 1 step C but replacing the 3 5 dimethoxybenzyl amine with trans 3 phenyl 1 aminocyclobutane gave the title compound. LC MS 469.2 M 1 . ICvalue B rating

Using the same procedure described in EXAMPLE 1 step B but replacing diethyl benzyl hydroxy propanedioate with alpha hydroxy diethylmalonate the title intermediate was prepared.

To a solution of ethyl 2 4 dioxo 3 1R 1 phenylethyl 1 3 oxazolidine 5 carboxylate 50 mg 0.180 mmol in THF 2 mL at 0 C. was added NaH 9 mg . The mixture was allowed to stir at 0 C. for 10 min before adding 3 chlorobenzyl bromide 29 uL . The reaction was allowed to warm to rt and stirred for an additional 1 hr. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and then quenched with water. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over MgSO. The product was purified via column chromatography 0 30 EtOAc hexanes to provide the title intermediate.

To ethyl 5 3 chlorobenzyl 2 4 dioxo 3 1R 1 phenylethyl 1 3 oxazolidine 5 carboxylate 20 mg in MeOH 0.5 mL was added 3 5 dimethoxybenzyl amine 15 uL . The mixture was heated to 60 C. and allowed to stir for 1 hr. The resulting mixture was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in DMF and then purified via Gilson RP HPLC 50 100 MeCN water w 0.1 TFA to provide the title compound. LC MS 523.0 M 1 . ICvalue C rating

To diethyl benzyl hydroxy propanedioate 6.3 g as described in Example 1 Step A in 50 mL of EtOH anhydrous was added KOH 1.5 g . The mixture was stirred at rt over night. After removing the solvent in vacuo the residue was taken up with 100 mL of ethyl acetate and 150 mL of water. The organic layer was removed. To the aqueous layer containing the potassium salt of the desired product was added 0.2 N HCl until pH 2. The mixture was extracted with 200 mL ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried with magnesium sulfate and concentrated to give the title acid as a colorless oil. The racemic acid was then purified by chrial SFC OJ H 4.6 100 mm 5 MeOH 0.1 TFA CO2 2.5 mL min 100 bar to give the title compound as a single enantiomer. LC MS 261.1 M 23 .

To a mixture of 2R 2 benzyl 3 ethoxy 2 hydroxy 3 oxopropanoic acid 112 mg 3 5 dimethoxybenzylamine 86 mg and HATU 197 mg was added DMF 4 mL and H nig base 67 mg . The mixture was stirred at rt for 2 h. To the mixture was added ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with water twice and dried with magnesium sulfate. After removal of the solvent the residue was purified by Biotage silica gel column chromatography 10 30 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title product as a colorless oil.

To a mixture of ethyl 2R 2 benzyl 3 3 5 dimethoxybenzyl amino 2 hydroxy 3 oxopropanoate 40 mg and isopropyl isocyanate 46 mg in 4 mL of THF was added NaOH solid 50 mg at rt. The mixture was under vigorous stirring for overnight. Filtered and washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated taken up by DMSO and purified by Gilson RPHPLC 30 100 ethyl acetate in hexanes to give the title product. LC MS 427.1 M 1 . ICvalue B rating

Following the same procedures for the preparation of EXAMPLE 4 but using various isocyanates Compounds 7 19 of Table 2 were obtained.

To a solution of 2R 2 benzyl 3 ethoxy 2 hydroxy 3 oxopropanoic acid 500 mg as described in Example 4 Step A in DMF 3 mL was added HATU 878 mg H nig s base 0.403 ml and ammonia 12.6 mL 6.30 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir overnight at rt. The mixture was concentrated to remove DMF re dissolved in DCM and purified via Biotage silica gel column chromatography 0 40 EtOAc hexanes . Collected spot with lower Rf. A second purification was then conducted via Gilson RP HPLC 0 100 MeCN water w 0.1 TFA . The product ethyl 2R 3 amino 2 benzyl 2 hydroxy 3 oxopropanoate peak came out at around 70 MeCN water.

Inside a glovebox a mixture of 45 mg of CuBr and 94 mg of trans N N dimethylcyclohexane 1 2 diamine was added to 8 mL vial equipped with stir bar followed by the addition of 2.25 mL of toluene. Solution was agitated at rt. Outside the glovebox 100 mg of the primary ethyl 2R 2 benzyl 2 hydroxy 3 oxo 3 pyridin 3 ylamino propanoate was charged to an 8 mL vial equipped with a stir bar. The resulting vial was brought into the glovebox where 50 uL of 3 bromopyridine and then 175 mg of sieved KCOwere charged followed by 750 uL of toluene. The mixture was agitated at rt. Then 800 uL of the catalyst suspension was transferred to the substrate vial. The vial was sealed tightly with a screw cap and removed from glovebox. The vial was then placed in an oil bath and heated at 95 C. overnight. The reaction was then cooled to rt. The mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite and concentrated. The residue was then purified by RP HPLC 10 90 acetonitrile water 0.1 TFA to give the desired product the title compound.

Following the procedure described in the preparation of EXAMPLE 4 but replacing isopropyl isocyanate with 1R 1 isocyanatoethyl 4 fluorobenzene provided the title product. LC MS 434.2 M 1 . ICvalue B rating

Using the techniques described in Example 1 but replacing 3 5 dimethoxybenzyl amine with 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline compound 21 of Table 3 was prepared. Also using the techniques described in Example 1 but replacing 3 5 dimethoxybenzyl amine with isoindoline compound 22 of Table 3 was prepared.

To diethyl tert butoxycarbonyl amino propanedioate 5.56 mL 21.79 mmol in ethanol 30 ml was added sodium ethoxide 9.76 nil 26.2 mmol followed by benzyl bromide 2.59 mL 21.79 mmol . The mixture was stirred for 6 h and the solvent was removed in vacuo. Saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 50 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acacate 3 50 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with saturated aqueous brine 1 50 mL dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo to afford the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS 366.1 M .

To the product of Step A 7.5 g 20.52 mmol in dichloromethane 24 mL was added trifluoroacetic acid 12 mL 156 mmol and the mixture stirred for 1 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the oil azeotroped with toluene 2 20 mL to afford the title compound as a tan amorphous solid. LC MS 266.1 M 1 .

To the product from Step B 7.79 g 20.54 mmol in N N dimethyformamide 100 ml was added diisopropylethylamine 10.76 mL 61.6 mmol at 0 C. the mixture was stirred for 5 min then R 1 phenylethyl isocyanate 3.76 mL 26.7 mmol was added dropwise. The mixture was warmed to ambient temperature over 30 min and stirred for 16 h. Water 150 mL was added and a white solid crashed out the mixture was filtered and the solid washed with water. The solid was diluted in ethyl acetate 250 mL and half saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 200 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 4 50 mL . The combined organic fractions were washed with brine saturated 1 100 mL dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and the solvent removed in vacuo to afford the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS 413.1 M 1 .

To a solution of the product from Step C 7.8 g 18.91 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 60 mL and methanol 20.00 mL was added a 1 M lithium hydroxide solution 19.86 mL 19.86 mmol and the mixture stirred for 30 min. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue azeotroped with toluene 3 25 mL to afford the title compound as a colorless amorphous solid. LC MS 339.1 M 1 .

To the product from Step D 100 mg 0.296 mmol 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 47 mg 0.35 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 0.103 mL 0.59 mmol and O 7 azabensotriazol 1yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 157 mg 0.414 mmol sequentially. The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 h and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by column chromatography silica gel 20 g column eluting with ethyl acetate hexane gradient from 0 to 100 to give a mixture of diastereomers as a colorless amorphous solid. The isomers were separated via chiral HPLC ChiralPak AS H 40 2 1 methanol acetonitrile carbon dioxide to afford the first eluting isomer 5R benzyl 5 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl carbonyl 3 1R 1 phenylethyl imidazolidine 2 4 dione and the second eluting isomer 5S benzyl 5 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 2 1H yl carbonyl 3 1R 1 phenylethyl imidazolidine 2 4 dione as colorless amorphous solids. LC MS 499.1 M 1 . ICvalue C rating

The activity of the compounds of the present invention regarding mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism was evaluated using the following assay.

The human MR NH Pro assay is a commercially available PathHunter Protein Protein interaction assay DiscoveRx http www.discoverx.com nhrs prod nhrs.php that measures the ability of compounds to antagonize full length human Mineralocorticoid Receptor MR binding to a coactivator peptide. PathHunter CHO K1 cells that overexpress human MR Cat 93 0456C2 Lot No 09B0913 were cultured in growth media F12K w Glutamine and phenol red Gibco 11765 047 supplemented with 10 HI FBS Gibco 16000 0.25 mg ml Hygromycin in PBS Invitrogen 10687 010 50 mg ml 100 I.U. mL and 100 g mL Pen Strep Gibco 15140 122 0.6 mg mL Geneticin .

Compounds were assessed for MR antagonist activity by incubating the cells with a titrating dose of compound in F12K w Glutamine and phenol red culture media Invitrogen 11765 047 supplemented with 1 Charcoal Dextran Treated FBS Hyclone SH30068.01 and aldosterone 0.3 nM for 6 hours at 37 C. Cells were then treated with DiscoveRx detection reagent for 1 hour at room temperature and read using an Envision luminescence plate reader. activity was measured relative to cells treated with aldosterone alone and ICvalues were calculated using ADA software.

As seen in the Examples above compounds of the instant invention that had an ICvalue greater than 0 nM but less than 100 nM were given an A ICrating. Compounds of the instant invention that had an ICvalue equal to or greater than 100 nM but less than 500 nM were given a B rating. Compounds of the instant invention that had an ICvalue equal to or greater than 500 nM but less than 4 500 nM were given a C rating.

