---

title: Methods, devices, and systems for enabling a personal cloud-computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access and source-independent, automated data aggregation
abstract: The present invention discloses methods, devices, and systems for enabling a personal cloud-computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access and source-independent, automated data aggregation. Methods include the step of: upon receiving at least one file-selection notification from at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud-computing environment, determining, based on at least one file-selection notification, whether to perform a local file-access operation on at least one computing device or to perform a remote file-access operation on a remote storage element in the personal cloud-computing environment. Other methods include the steps of: utilizing a phone-network infrastructure for maintaining operational connectivity of a personal cloud, wherein the personal cloud resides in a local network, and wherein the operational connectivity includes connectivity with at least one foreign network; and providing at least one data-management capability via the phone-network infrastructure to at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282168&OS=09282168&RS=09282168
owner: Parablu Systems Pvt. Ltd.
number: 09282168
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20121206
---
This patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 567 143 filed Dec. 6 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to methods devices and systems for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access and source independent automated data aggregation.

Computing tablets and smartphones are increasingly taking over the role of personal computing devices. There are many times more mobile phones than Personal Computers PCs in use today and that gap is widening. Households increasingly own more than one computing device it is not uncommon to see an average household boasting 2 PCs laptops 3 or more smartphones and a tablet e.g. iPad .

Mobile devices in recent years have become more advanced computationally and are becoming a natural repository for personal data such as short movies and Office PDF documents in addition to the standard content like contacts calendar pictures and music. Continuing with this functional evolution mobile devices can rapidly become the consumer s comprehensive photo album as well as the viewing mechanism for books television and even full fledged feature films.

While technology in mobile devices is quite advanced today as a technology solution they still face a number of the same problems that PCs of yesteryear did. As an example managing personal data and storage capacity effectively on multiple devices and the ability to find data quickly amongst a plurality of devices when it is necessary are both problems for which effective solutions don t exist using current technology. It is usually hard to remember which device contains the latest version of a document or where the picture of a special family occasion from five years ago is actually stored at any given point in time. Also smartphone and tablet data today is technologically off limits for any kind of governance either for business compliance or simply for parental control.

Cloud computing in which resources are stored and accessed on a distributed network is becoming a preferred information technology IT solution for data storage. Beside storage the cloud computing environment provides expanded access for mobile users. The emergence of a personal cloud in which users can control access and maintain complete privacy is attracting more attention. This would enable a user to benefit greatly from ubiquitous access while ensuring that their data stays completely in their control and not sent over the Internet to a cloud or storage provider. A personal cloud which allows automatic aggregation of data from multiple devices and provides a unified search while preserving complete privacy and providing access from anywhere is still not known in the prior art.

It would be desirable to have methods devices and systems for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access and source independent automated data aggregation. Such methods devices and systems would inter alia overcome the limitations mentioned above.

It is the purpose of the present invention to provide methods devices and systems for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access and source independent automated data aggregation.

In the interest of clarity several terms which follow are specifically defined for use herein. The term resource is used herein to refer to any computing service which provides data storage computing networking capacity algorithmic capabilities software capabilities and or software based objects using hardware or software provided by any service provider.

Furthermore it is noted that the term exemplary is used herein to refer to examples of embodiments and or implementations and is not meant to necessarily convey a more desirable use case. Similarly the terms preferred and preferably are used herein to refer to an example out of an assortment of contemplated embodiments and or implementations and is not meant to necessarily convey a more desirable use case. Therefore it is understood from the above that exemplary and preferred may be applied herein to multiple embodiments and or implementations.

It is noted that a non transitory computer readable medium includes a hard drive a compact disc flash memory volatile memory non volatile memory and similar device memory but does not include a transitory signal per se.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention provide an easy to use mechanism to protect a device s valuable data by seamlessly creating a redundant copy of it in a cloud computing environment. Such embodiments can extend the computing device s storage capability beyond the actual physical storage attached to it by using the cloud storage. The data transferred to the cloud lends itself for operations like analytics governance and search which individual users parents or corporations can employ as the need dictates.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention enable data to be moved from the computing device into a public or private cloud with as little disruption to the user as possible maintaining the data to be easily searched located and recovered when needed. All data transfers from the device to the web storage are compressed to save bandwidth and encrypted for security.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention include a web based storage service and a device specific client application. The web based storage can allow the data to be sent to 1 a public cloud over the Internet with commercially available cloud storage vendors e.g. Amazon S3 or Microsoft Azure to handle backend storage needs 2 an on premise server or cloud of servers maintained within a corporate data center i.e. a private cloud with a interface module for deploying on conventional servers e.g. Linux or 3 a home storage device hereinafter referred to as a personal cloud which can be especially useful if there is concern about sending and storing private data on the public Internet.

An example of a personal cloud implementation can include a wireless 3G enabled storage device serving as a central storage repository for a household or a small community optionally combined with the capabilities of a wireless router or even a TV set top box.

Other embodiments of the present invention enable existing phone network infrastructure which most countries already have to be leveraged by users to retain full control and privacy of data. Such embodiments can be implemented using 3G 4G or similar high speed access utilizing the phone network as a gateway to a user s personal cloud. Using a simple user interface UI e.g. a voice navigation menu and or a user s phone keypad user credentials can be provided and data management performed e.g. file transfer backup update and organization . Furthermore such an approach provides users with a single search interface for data originating from multiple devices.

As an additional feature underdeveloped and developing countries could greatly benefit from a solution which provides true ubiquitous connectivity as well as developed countries which could benefit from circumventing spotty connections signal outages and load balancing problems for example. The cell phone network solution described above also addresses situations in which the user is outside the periphery of a broadband network usually provided by a DSL or cable provider and still has a need to access their personal data in the cloud.

Embodiments of the present invention allow end users of mobile devices to access cloud data with a completely seamless user experience for data transfer and state awareness signaling. An end user simply accesses data on the file system of his her mobile device with no prior knowledge of where the data source is. The system figures out the most current location of the data automatically downloads the requested data hereinafter such a process is referred to as Download on Demand or DoD and provides the data to the user.

Such implementations can be used to effectively manage space on the device s local memory and shift seldom used data to the cloud. Such embodiments also allow the end user to have immediate access to all his her data even if the content was generated on devices other than the one the user is currently using without necessarily taking up room on their local device memory. Such implementations employ the ability of the file system itself to keep a catalogue of its contents without creating a new catalogue of files coming from cloud sources.

Embodiments of the present invention allow end users to use a phone network e.g. EDGE 3G EVDO HSPA LTE 4G to ensure that a personal cloud is always connected and reachable not so much for the user to reach the cloud but for the cloud to use the phone network to keep itself online Personal clouds typically located inside a home can provide connectivity to all connected devices on the Wi Fi network operated in the home. However for the personal cloud to be truly effective the personal cloud needs to be available at anytime and from anywhere even if the end user and his her device are outside the range of the Wi Fi network. Such personal cloud implementations as outlined above can utilize a phone network to enable the personal cloud to be online all the time.

Therefore according to the present invention there is provided for the first time a method for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with source independent automated data aggregation the method including the step of a upon receiving at least one file selection notification from at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud computing environment determining based on at least one file selection notification whether to perform a local file access operation on at least one computing device or to perform a remote file access operation on a remote storage element in the personal cloud computing environment wherein the remote storage element includes any storage element on any other at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud computing environment.

Preferably the step of determining is further based on at least one file access notification and wherein at least one file access notification is related to at least one file selection notification.

Preferably the method further includes the step of b upon performing one of the file access operations performing a metadata operation on at least one remotely stored metadata file.

According to the present invention there is provided for the first time a method for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access the method including the steps of a utilizing a phone network infrastructure for maintaining operational connectivity of a personal cloud network wherein the personal cloud network resides in a local network and wherein the operational connectivity includes connectivity with at least one foreign network other than the local network and b providing at least one data management capability via the phone network infrastructure to at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud network.

According to the present invention there is provided for the first time a device for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with source independent automated data aggregation the device including a a CPU for performing computational operations b a memory module for storing data c a network connection for communicating across a network and d a determination module configured for i upon receiving at least one file selection notification from at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud computing environment determining based on at least one file selection notification whether to perform a local file access operation on at least one computing device or to perform a remote file access operation on a remote storage element in the personal cloud computing environment wherein the remote storage element includes any storage element on any other at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud computing environment.

Preferably the determining is further based on at least one file access notification and wherein at least one file access notification is related to at least one file selection notification.

Preferably the determination module is further configured for ii upon performing one of the file access operations performing a metadata operation on at least one remotely stored metadata file.

According to the present invention there is provided for the first time a system for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access the system including a a server including i a CPU for performing computational operations ii a memory module for storing data and iii a network connection for communicating across a network and b a data management module residing on the server configured for i utilizing a phone network infrastructure for maintaining operational connectivity of a personal cloud network wherein the personal cloud network resides in a local network and wherein the operational connectivity includes connectivity with at least one foreign network other than the local network and ii providing at least one data management capability via the phone network infrastructure to at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud network.

According to the present invention there is provided for the first time a non transitory computer readable medium having computer readable code embodied on the non transitory computer readable medium the computer readable code including a program code for upon receiving at least one file selection notification from at least one computing device operationally connected to a personal cloud computing environment determining based on at least one file selection notification whether to perform a local file access operation on at least one computing device or to perform a remote file access operation on a remote storage element in the personal cloud computing environment wherein the remote storage element includes any storage element on any other the at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud computing environment.

Preferably the determining is further based on at least one file access notification and wherein at least one file access notification is related to at least one file selection notification.

Preferably the computer readable code further includes b program code for upon performing one of the file access operations performing a metadata operation on at least one remotely stored metadata file.

According to the present invention there is provided for the first time a non transitory computer readable medium having computer readable code embodied on the non transitory computer readable medium the computer readable code including a program code for utilizing a phone network infrastructure for maintaining operational connectivity of a personal cloud network wherein the personal cloud network resides in a local network and wherein the operational connectivity includes connectivity with at least one foreign network other than the local network and b program code for providing at least one data management capability via the phone network infrastructure to at least one computing device operationally connected to the personal cloud network.

These and further embodiments will be apparent from the detailed description and examples that follow.

The present invention relates to methods devices and systems for enabling a personal cloud computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access and source independent automated data aggregation. The principles and operation for such methods devices and systems according to the present invention may be better understood with reference to the accompanying description and drawings.

Referring now to the drawings is a high level schematic block diagram of the components employed in enabling a personal cloud computing environment with ubiquitous mobile access and source independent automated data aggregation according to preferred embodiments of the present invention. Mobile devices are shown in having a device UI a process control module a cloud service module a device sync module for immediate real time replication a DoD module for accessing offline remotely located files a safe module for backup and restore functions and a wipe scream module . Device UI enables mobile devices to access a personal cloud network e.g. for searching retrieving browsing restoring managing configuration management and reporting . Cloud service module may run as a virtual server appliance on mobile devices .

A cloud server is shown having a web based management UI a server layer module a search engine module a server sync module a file sharing module for sharing specific files with external collaborators and integration modules for allowing search of external data sources e.g. Facebook LinkedIn Google Docs and MS SkyDrive to provide pervasive search capabilities. Search engine module may be configured to provide exclusive private cloud search capabilities but including public user accounts to prevent unauthorized individuals from viewing search criteria.

Server layer module provides REST representational state transfer services in which requests and responses are built around the transfer of representations of resources i.e. essentially any coherent and meaningful concept that may be addressed . A representation of a resource is typically a document that captures the current or intended state of a resource. A client begins sending requests when it is ready to make a transition to a new state. While one or more requests are outstanding the client is considered to be in transition. The representation of each application state contains links that may be used next time the client chooses to initiate a new state transition.

Mobile devices are uniquely identified by device identifiers e.g. serial number IMEI number or MAC address and a password s . When data is uploaded from mobile device via cloud service module to cloud network the upload process is authenticated with server layer module to obtain information before transferring the data.

Process control module monitors state changes tests for network connectivity before launching backup operations periodically tracks backup and restore operations as successful in progress aborted or failed e.g. stored in an SQL Lite database to ensure that interrupted operations are restarted and queues data transfer operations to occur sequentially.

Device sync module and server sync module enable newly created data to be identified and trigger as soon as a change is detected in designated monitored folders on mobile devices e.g. in a folder residing on one of mobile devices and to be synchronized with a master image of the data maintained in cloud network by cloud server . Similarly if there is newly created data in the master image on cloud server the data is downloaded to one or more of mobile devices and the corresponding folder s updated. This capability enables users to share data among multiple devices and or users . A full text index of the data can be created which can be utilized by the user to search during the retrieval process.

Safe module enables newly created data to be identified on mobile devices on a pre determined schedule and be archived as a backup on cloud server according to data categories without bothering the end user. Safe module provides a persistent memory with a time dimension on all mobile devices . Retrieval can also be performed in any of the forms of access described above with the user able to view a consolidated image of what existed on the device as of the last backup to view consolidated images of the device s data at previous points in time to view details of each backup data transfer that occurred by searching basing on file name or content.

DoD module controls the DoD process which can be considered to have two parts offlining and the actual Download on Demand. Offlining results in data transferred from cloud server to mobile devices being replaced with a file that looks like the original but in reality is an abbreviated version of the original. Such a file is usually created if the original file in question is not one that originated natively on the mobile device but has as its source peer device. This file called an offline file contains information about the actual location of the file i.e. the cloud location . When the offline file is accessed the original file is seamlessly retrieved from the cloud location and served to the user or application.

This is more complicated and requires the file open system call to be trapped when the open is for a file that is offline. The open call is suspended while the restore logic is activated to retrieve the file from the cloud location and return the file to the file system. Once this is complete the open operation is allowed to be performed. The act of trapping the open system call typically requires an OS kernel module which can suspend the I O and call back into user space to execute the restore operation.

Alternatively to avoid building a kernel module on devices with a modern operating system OS a less intrusive approach is possible. Since such flexibility to trap the open system call may or many not exist in all OSs it is likely that creative methods will have to be used to achieve this effect. As an example in the case of the Android OS the approach uses file selection notifications called Intents in Android and the capability in Android to inform a user of files that have been opened or accessed referred to generally herein as file access notifications via the FileObserver API in Android. By registering for file selection notifications on file selection such implementations of the present invention receive information as a user browses media files with the possible intention of opening the files.

When a file is actually opened for use a file access notification is received by the system. When both notifications file selection and file access are received for the same file the system interprets this to mean that a file has been selected and opened for viewing or listening. Such a situation results in the system immediately recovering the designated file from cloud server and broadcasting an intent to open the file so that the appropriate application may open it. Such a method effectively disallows spurious open calls that could result from backup or anti virus applications because such open calls will trigger file access notifications but without being preceded by equivalent file selection notifications.

It is noted that file access notifications can be created for any type of file operation which can include anti virus checking backup and examining file or MIME type. Such file access notifications may be generated before or after the operation has been performed and can occur for operations that are not valid access operations in their true sense e.g. Microsoft Explorer checking a file extension in order to determine an appropriate icon or thumbnail to display . It is further noted that file selection notifications refer to any form of file selection and are independent of OS or file system type.

Once in cloud server data can be mined to provide useful analytic information to the user which can be presented in a dashboard or emailed report for example depending on the use case. As examples use cases can include parental governance and corporate compliance.

Parental governance allows parents to be alerted to inappropriate use of a mobile device by their children. Examples of alert parameters include 

Wipe scream module provides protection to the user in the case of theft or loss of a device by using the device s GPS capabilities to track and identify the device s location at any point in time. In order to ensure that none of the information e.g. email text messages contacts phone numbers and pictures on the device is compromised by unauthorized individuals the user can wipe selected data from the image of the device on cloud server resulting in the removal of the data from the device when the next synchronization occurs. A scream function enables the user to cause the device to emit an audible alarm to draw attention to its missing or stolen status.

Conventional cloud based storage providers such as Amazon Microsoft and Google have the drawback of offering services that are not considered adequately secure or private. Users who are open to storing certain information in the cloud are reluctant about storing more sensitive information e.g. confidential data passwords personal photographs . Embodiments of the present invention that utilize a personal cloud overcome this drawback.

Management UI provides the user with a simple easy to use web interface for configuring device access searching data performing data analytics and controlling data transfer to external clouds. The personal cloud implementation can be integrated into a conventional Wi Fi router which already has a ubiquitous presence in almost every home or integrated into a set top box or DVR recorder data repositories that one finds increasingly in households. By providing connectivity e.g. via a 3G data card the personal cloud implementation allows itself to be accessed even outside the range of normal Wi Fi routers becoming a true cloud for the domestic user even when outside the home while assuring that the data is stored in a private encrypted storage device that the user fully manages and controls.

File sharing module enables users to share specific files with external collaborators via links within the private cloud environment. Such links can be redirected to third party servers to enhance security and obfuscate hacking by concealing the path address.

Such a personal cloud may be accessed by a user via a secure web connection i.e. using https . Such a method requires a name resolution server which resolves the web server name that is part of the URL to an Internet Protocol IP address. Domain Name Services DNS usually resolve the mapping of domain names to corresponding IP addresses. Embodiments of the present invention can also incorporate methods for creating customizable DNS routing algorithms in order to bypass traditional name servers.

Name servers typically map a human recognizable identifier to an internal system identifier or addressing component. The normal DNS resolution process uses record caching. If the same domain name is requested again the IP address is taken from the cache rather than being queried again in order to increase performance for the resolution process. However typical DNS requests suffer from two disadvantages.

Embodiments of the present invention enable a personal cloud to be run as a virtual machine inside a regular host computer or a consumer electronics device. All aspects of such a system are dynamic including the name of the machine or device and its IP address. A user may choose the name of the device during configuration. Such implementations can resolve IP addresses in numerous scenarios including the following.

DNS based mechanisms therefore cannot effectively be used for mapping such scenarios due to change propagation delay. Embodiments of the present invention enable a personal cloud to be connected to a modem or router and obtain an IP address for access inside the network. A direct public IP addressed mapped to the personal cloud either by having a 3G 4G based USB modems or by using Wi Fi access. A local IP address can also be provided behind a firewall for performing internal redirection e.g. NAT network access translation .

In such implementations a DNS like portal with public URL access can handle name resolution. Every time a personal cloud changes its IP address the DNS like portal is updated with the new IP address. Any device trying to connect to a personal cloud connects to the DNS like portal to obtain the current IP address of the personal cloud. Such a configuration ensures that any IP change is reflected immediately. No domain registrar or name server is used.

Furthermore a personal cloud can also have multiple IP addresses mapped to the personal cloud. As an example consider the use case in which a DHCP IP address is used for an internal subnet and a public IP address. In such a configuration all IP addresses are mapped to the DNS like portal which selects the best IP address to access based on but not limited to network usage and data costs.

Such a routing protocol is extensible to allow additional custom fields and information to be packaged as part of the handshake between the personal cloud and the DNS like portal allowing for telemetry on usage characteristics licensing and other data.

The remote storage element can be any storage element on any of the other computing devices operationally connected to the personal cloud computing environment. Optionally the system can base its determination on a file access notification related to the file selection notification as well Step . Optionally in addition to standard file access operations the file access operation can include creating a metadata file Step .

Such methods inter alia utilize a file storage system as opposed to a block storage system and circumvent the need to intercept read requests which can potentially be intrusive to the OS environment by requiring a kernel driver or some other kind of system call redirection.

The phone network infrastructure is then used to provide data management capabilities to computing devices operationally connected to the personal cloud computing environment Step . Such methods circumvent inter alia the need for port access protocols and configurations to obtain access outside a local network providing true ubiquitous mobile access for the personal cloud computing environment.

While the present invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments it will be appreciated that many variations modifications and other applications of the present invention may be made.

