---

title: Mixed off-site/on-site prediction computation for reducing wireless reconnection time of a computing device
abstract: A method, system, and device for reducing connection time to a wireless access point includes recording wireless connection information in a log, remotely computing parameters as a function of past wireless connection information in the log, generating an ordered list of wireless access points most likely to be available for reconnection at a desired time as a function of recent wireless connection information in the log, and directly probing a wireless access point instead of initiating a wireless access point scan. In some embodiments, remotely computing parameters as a function of past wireless connection information in the log comprises performing genetic programming operations to generate prediction programs for later prediction of wireless access points most likely to be available for reconnection at a desired time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08885565&OS=08885565&RS=08885565
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08885565
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
Modern computing devices such as laptops smartphones mobile internet devices MIDs and tablets often include functionality for wirelessly connecting with one or more networks. Such functionality is increasingly important to users of computing devices that often travel between any number of different locations but still require access to network based content and services provided by a remote computing device or server. In providing such access a computing device may wirelessly connect with one or more different wireless access points each of which are connected to a network such as the Internet.

To decrease the amount of time required to reconnect to a particular wireless access point a computing device may save a password and an identifier associated with each wireless access point to which the computing device connects. As such when scanning for available wireless access points with which to connect the computing device may receive an identifier that matches one of the saved identifiers. In response the computing device may reconnect to the wireless access point associated with the received identifier using the corresponding password and thereby decrease the amount of time needed to connect. However saving an identifier and a password for each wireless access point to which the computing device connects does not typically decrease the amount of time needed to scan for available wireless access points with which to connect.

Additionally some computing devices may attempt to reconnect to one or more wireless access points based on a current location. For example some computing devices may determine a current location and attempt to reconnect to one or more wireless access points known to be available for reconnection at the determined location. To do so however such computing devices must typically include location determining functionality e.g. Global Positioning System components radio frequency triangulation network connectivity etc. which may either be computationally and resource intensive on the computing device or require an always on always available connection to a network.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art however that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the description of the of the concepts described herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the concepts described herein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments implemented in a computer system may include one or more point to point or bus based interconnects between components. Embodiments of the concepts described herein may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on one or more machine readable or computer readable storage media which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM device s random access memory RAM device s magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Referring now to a system for reducing an amount of time required to re establish a wireless connection comprises a local computing device and one or more wireless access points . The local computing device may attempt to re establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points as a function of historical connection information and a current context of the local computing device . Additionally or alternatively the local computing device may predict a group of the wireless access points most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time.

In some embodiments the predictions may be determined as a function of the current context of the local computing device and historical connection information analyzed using one or more artificial intelligence based techniques e.g. genetic algorithms genetic programming etc. . In such embodiments analyzing historical connection information using one or more artificial intelligence based techniques may be computationally and or resource intensive on the local computing device . This is especially true in embodiments wherein the local computing device comprises a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone tablet computer e reader laptop computer personal digital assistant etc. or any other type of computing device capable of fully or partially operating using a limited or reduced power source e.g. a battery hand power crank photovoltaic cell etc. . As a result the local computing device may off load all or a portion of the historical connection information analysis to one or more remote computing devices. To do so the local computing device may transmit historical connection information to the one or more remote computing devices which may then analyze the received historical connection information using the one or more artificial intelligence based techniques. As a function of that analysis the one or more remote computing devices may compute one or more parameters which as discussed in more detail below may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time.

At certain intervals which may correspond to a reference interval in some embodiments the local computing device may request that new and or updated parameters be sent from the one or more remote computing devices. In some embodiments the local computing device may request the new and or updated parameters in response to the occurrence of one or more events or trigger conditions. For example the local computing device may request new and or updated parameters from the one or more remote computing devices in response to determining that a loss of network connectivity or a shutdown is imminent. By proactively refreshing locally stored parameters the local computing device may ensure that more recent parameters are used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time.

The local computing device may subsequently determine the likelihood e.g. the probability that each of the wireless access points will be available for reconnection e.g. accessible in range of the local computing device etc. at the given time as a function of the current context of the local computing device and the previously computed parameters received from the one or more remote computing devices. As a function of that determination the local computing device may generate an ordered list comprising a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection e.g. the top four wireless access points . That is the local computing device may generate an ordered list of the wireless access points arranged in a descending manner according to the probability determined for each.

In some embodiments the local computing device may predict different groups and generate corresponding ordered lists of the wireless access points as a function of the context of the local computing device and the previously computed parameters received from the one or more remote computing devices. For example the local computing device may be utilized in any number of different locations based on a particular day of the week or a particular time of day. That is the local computing device may be operated in one location e.g. at an office building during the week and in another location e.g. at home on weekends. In each of the locations the local computing device may establish a wireless connection to or otherwise come into contact with any number of different wireless access points . For example while located in an office building during the week e.g. location the local computing device may establish one or more wireless connections and or come into contact with any number of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP AP AP and AP . In contrast while located at home on weekends e.g. location the local computing device may establish one or more wireless connections and or come into contact with any number of different wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP AP AP and AP . In such embodiments the local computing device may predict that a group of the wireless access points is more likely to be available for re establishment of a wireless connection at a particular time. For example the local computing device may determine that a group of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP and AP is more likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection than the other wireless access points e.g. AP and AP as a function of the time of day or the day of the week being predicted.

It should be understood that there may be any number of additional wireless access points in either location . In addition it should be further understood that although only two different locations and types of locations e.g. an office building and a home are described in the illustrative embodiment the local computing device may establish a wireless connection to and or come into contact with any number of different wireless access points in any number of locations and or any other type of location. For example in some embodiments the local computing device may establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points at an airport a retail store a restaurant a hotel and or any other type of location including one or more of the wireless access points .

To reduce the amount of time needed to re establish a wireless connection the local computing device may transmit a probe frame or a directed connection request to one or more of the wireless access points as a function of the ordered list. If one or more of the wireless access points are in range of the local computing device when probed the one or more in range wireless access points can generate and thereafter transmit a response to the probe frame. Upon receipt of a probe response the local computing device may re establish a wireless connection with the corresponding wireless access point . By predicting and directly probing the wireless access points that are most likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection at a given time the local computing device need not initiate a wireless access point scan which typically takes a noticeable amount of time to complete. In that way the time needed to re establish a wireless connection may be reduced.

The local computing device may be embodied as any type of computing device for processing data and communicating with remote computing devices. In the illustrative embodiment of the local computing device includes a processor an I O subsystem a memory a data storage communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard of the local computing device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the local computing device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in a computing device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the local computing device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the local computing device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the local computing device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the local computing device . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. In such embodiments the firmware device of the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory device for storing Basic Input Output System BIOS data and or instructions and or other information e.g. a BIOS driver used during booting of the local computing device . However in other embodiments I O subsystems having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the local computing device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the local computing device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices point to point interconnects and or the like.

The memory of the local computing device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory device is illustrated in the local computing device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory device . For example one or more operating systems OS applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. In some embodiments the data storage may be used to store data associated with past and present connections with one or more wireless access points such as for example the AP . Additionally or alternatively the data storage may also be used to store parameters used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points to connect to. To do so the data storage may include one or more databases such as for example a wireless connection database and a local parameter database . In such embodiments the wireless connection database may comprise data associated with one or more wireless connections e.g. connection start time and date connection end time and date connection duration etc. or information corresponding to one or more of the wireless access points with which the local computing device connects e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. . The local parameter database may contain in some embodiments one or more prediction parameters computed using one or more algorithms.

The communication circuitry of the local computing device may be embodied as any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the local computing device and one or more remote computing devices e.g. the remote analysis server the remote computing device etc. over the network . For example the communication circuitry may be embodied as a network interface controller NIC in some embodiments. The communication circuitry may be further configured to use any one or more or combination thereof communication protocols to communicate with the network such as for example a cellular communication protocol e.g. Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA a wireless network communication protocol e.g. Wi Fi WiMAX a wired network communication protocol e.g. Ethernet and or other communication protocols.

The network may be embodied as any number of various wired and or wireless communication networks. For example the network may be embodied as or otherwise include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a mobile network or a publicly accessible global network such as the Internet. Additionally the network may include any number of additional devices to facilitate communication between the local computing device and the remote computing devices . For example the communication circuitry may wirelessly connect to the one or more wireless access points e.g. AP which may be communicatively coupled to the network . In such embodiments the communication circuitry may communicate with the remote computing devices over the network using the AP .

The peripheral devices of the local computing device may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example the peripheral devices may include a display for displaying content to a user a keyboard mouse or other input output peripheral devices. The peripheral devices are communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths thereby allowing the I O subsystem and or processor to receive inputs from and send outputs to the peripheral devices .

The wireless access points e.g. AP may be embodied as any type of computing and or communication device capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the wireless access points may include various hardware and software components e.g. a processor memory and communication circuitry typically found in a computing device for communicating storing forwarding maintaining receiving and transferring data over the network .

The remote analysis server may be embodied as any type of server or similar computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the remote analysis server may include devices and structures commonly found in servers such as processors memory devices communication circuitry and data storages which are not shown in for clarity of the description. As discussed in more detail below the remote analysis server is configured to analyze information received from the local computing device and thereby compute one or more parameters. The one or more parameters may later be used by the local computing device to facilitate predicting which of the wireless access points or a group of the wireless access points is most likely to be in range of the local computing device at a particular time. In some embodiments the remote analysis server is configured to compute the one or more parameters in cooperation with one or more other computing devices such as for example the remote computing device . The remote analysis server may also include a remote parameter database . The remote parameter database may contain in some embodiments one or more prediction parameters computed by the remote analysis server using one or more algorithms.

The remote computing device may be embodied as any type of computing device capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the remote computing device may include devices and structures commonly found in computing devices such as processors memory devices communication circuitry and data storages which are not shown in for clarity of the description. As discussed in more detail below similar to the remote analysis server the remote computing device is configured to compute one or more parameters which may later be used by the local computing device to facilitate predicting which of the wireless access points or the group of the wireless access points is most likely to be in range of the local computing device at a particular time. To do so the remote computing device may either compute the parameters itself or compute the parameters in cooperation with the remote analysis server as discussed above. In some embodiments the remote computing device may include a remote parameter database which may be similar to the remote parameter database of the remote analysis server . As such the remote parameter database of the remote computing device may contain one or more prediction parameters computed by the remote computing device using one or more algorithms.

Referring now to one embodiment of an environment of the local computing device includes a wireless connection logging module a wireless connection management module a prediction module a wireless communication module the wireless connection database and the local parameter database . It should be understood that the environment and or any of the modules included therein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

As discussed above in some embodiments the local computing device may establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points . To do so the wireless communication module may perform a scan to identify one or more wireless access points located within proximity of the local computing device . In response to identifying one or more wireless access points located within the proximity of the local computing device the wireless communication module may connect to one of the wireless access points . Additionally in some embodiments the wireless communication module may re establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points .

The wireless communication module may be communicatively coupled to the wireless connection management module . The wireless connection management module may facilitate establishing and or re establishing a connection with one or more of the wireless access points using the wireless communication module . In use the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to initiate a scan to identify the wireless access points located in the proximity of the local computing device . Additionally or alternatively the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to directly probe one or more of the wireless access points instead of initiating a scan. For example in some embodiments the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to send a probe to a reference number of the wireless access points corresponding to the wireless access points with which the local computing device has the highest probability of reconnecting. In some embodiments the wireless connection management module may also instruct the wireless communication module to directly probe one or more of the wireless access points as a function of a manual wireless connection configuration provided by a user of the local computing device .

The wireless connection logging module may record connection information corresponding to one or more past or present wireless connections established between the wireless communication module and the one or more wireless access points . The connection information may include information describing the wireless connections themselves e.g. connection start time and date connection end time and date connection duration etc. or information describing characteristics or data associated with the one or more wireless access points with which the local computing device connects e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. .

In some embodiments the wireless connection logging module may be configured to store the connection information in a log which may be embodied as one or more databases. For example the wireless connection logging module may store the connection information in the wireless connection database . It should be understood that although the log is described as being embodied as a database in the illustrative embodiment the log may be embodied as data stored in a data structure e.g. a document file etc. having a different format in other embodiments. For example the log may be embodied as a comma separated value CSV file a text file an encrypted data file an Extensible Markup Language XML document having one or more XML elements or any other format suitable to store information associated with one or more past or present wireless connections between the local computing device and the one or more wireless access points . Additionally it should be understood that the wireless connection logging module may also be configured to store the connection information in any suitable data storage and or memory device e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory devices of the local computing device .

At certain intervals which may correspond to a pre defined reference interval in some embodiments the wireless connection management module may retrieve historical connection information stored in the wireless connection database . The historical connection information may include connection information corresponding to one or more wireless connections previously recorded in the wireless connection database . The wireless connection management module additionally or alternatively may retrieve the historical connection information stored in the wireless connection database in response to determining that the wireless communication module is connected to the network via one or more of the wireless access points . After retrieving the historical connection information from the wireless connection database the wireless connection management module may transmit the retrieved connection information over the network to the remote analysis server using the wireless communication module . As discussed in more detail below the remote analysis server may analyze the historical connection information received from the local computing device and compute one or more parameters that may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time. In some embodiments the one or more parameters computed by the remote analysis server may be embodied as one or more prediction programs e.g. instructions program sequences etc. which may be later executed by the prediction module to facilitate predicting which of wireless access points or the group of the wireless access points are most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time.

In some embodiments the wireless connection management module may request that new and or updated parameters be sent from the remote analysis server . The wireless connection management module may do so in response to one or more events occurring or trigger conditions being met. For example in some embodiments the wireless connection management module may be configured to monitor a signal strength between the wireless communication module and one of the wireless access points for example the AP . In such embodiments the wireless connection management module may request that the remote analysis server send new and or updated parameters in response to determining that the signal strength is equal to or below a reference signal strength threshold. The wireless connection management module may instead request that the remote analysis server send new and or updated parameters in response to determining that one or more components of the local computing device are being shutdown. Additionally or alternatively the wireless connection management module may request that the remote analysis server send new and or updated parameters at certain intervals which may correspond to a predefined reference interval. It should be understood that the wireless connection management module may request new and or updated parameters be sent from the remote analysis server in response to the occurrence of any other suitable event or trigger condition e.g. battery level of the local computing device impending loss of connectivity to the network at a particular day of the week at a particular time in response to a manual request by a user of the local computing device etc. .

In response to receiving new and or updated parameters from the remote analysis server the wireless connection management module may be configured to locally store the new and or updated parameters in one or more databases. For example the wireless connection management module may store the new and or updated parameters in the local parameter database . Of course it should be understood that the wireless connection management module may also be configured to store the parameters in any suitable data storage and or memory device e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory devices of the local computing device . Additionally it should be understood that in embodiments wherein the parameters computed by the remote analysis server are embodied as prediction programs the wireless connection management module may be configured to request new and or updated prediction programs from the remote analysis server and thereafter store the new and or updated prediction programs in the local parameter database .

To facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time the prediction module may be communicatively coupled to the wireless connection management module the wireless connection database and the local parameter database . In use the prediction module may receive a notification and or an indication from the wireless connection management module that re establishment of a wireless connection has been requested.

In response the prediction module may retrieve the one or more parameters and or prediction programs from the local parameter database . Additionally the prediction module may retrieve the most recent connection information from the wireless connection database . In some embodiments the most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database may comprise information corresponding one or more recent wireless connections for which the remote analysis server has not yet computed into a parameter or a prediction program.

In use the prediction module may predict different groups of the wireless access points being most likely to be in range of or otherwise available to the local computing device at a desired day of the week and or time of prediction. In some embodiments the previously computed parameters received from the remote analysis server are embodied as numeric constants indicative of connection probabilities derived from the historical connection information. In such embodiments the prediction module may use the received parameters the most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database and a desired time of prediction as inputs into a generic e.g. standard predefined default common etc. algorithm or formula to generate an ordered list. Thereafter the prediction module may retrieve parameters from the local parameter database that correspond to the desired day of the week and or time of prediction but that occurred in the past e.g. parameters generated from historical connection information . For example if the prediction module determines that the desired day of the week and or time of prediction corresponds to the present day of the week and time e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM then the prediction module may retrieve a set of previously computed parameters for the same day of the week and time using the historical connection information e.g. the last four Tuesdays at 5 00 PM the last three Tuesdays at 5 00 PM etc. .

The prediction module may then determine which of the most recent wireless connections are most likely to be available for reconnection at the desired time of prediction e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM . To do so the prediction module may assign the connection probabilities associated with each of the previously computed parameters e.g. 0.4 0.35 0.25 to the most recent connection information. For example the prediction module may assign a probability of 0.4 to the last e.g. the previous wireless connection that was established e.g. Tuesday at 3 00 PM Monday at 10 00 PM etc. a probability of 0.35 to the wireless connection that was established 24 hours before e.g. Monday at 5 00 PM the desired time of prediction e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM and a probability of 0.25 to the wireless connection what was established one week before e.g. last Tuesday at 5 00 PM the desired time of prediction e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM .

In response to determining which of the most recent wireless connections are most likely to be available for reconnection at the desired time e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM the prediction module may identify which of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP etc. correspond to those wireless connections and generate the ordered list therefrom. To do so the prediction module may use any information describing the characteristics or data associated with the corresponding wireless access points e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. to facilitate identification. The resulting ordered list may therefore comprise a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection e.g. the top three wireless access points . In some embodiments the ordered list of the wireless access points may be arranged in a descending order according to the probability determined for each.

In embodiments wherein the previously computed parameters received from the remote analysis server are instead embodied as one or more prediction programs e.g. instructions program sequences etc. the prediction module may execute the previously generated prediction programs using the most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database and the desired time of prediction as inputs to generate the ordered list of the wireless access points . In such embodiments the resulting ordered list may similarly comprise a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection e.g. the top three wireless access points . Additionally or alternatively the ordered list of the wireless access points may be arranged in a descending order according to the probability determined for each.

To reduce the amount of time needed to re establish a wireless connection the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to transmit a probe or a directed connection request to one or more of the wireless access points as a function of the ordered list. If one or more of the wireless access points are in range of or are otherwise available to the local computing device when probed the one or more in range wireless access points can generate and thereafter transmit a response to the probe. Upon receipt of a probe response the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to re establish a wireless connection with the wireless access point that generated the response. By predicting and directly probing the wireless access points that are most likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection at a given time the local computing device need not scan for available wireless access points which typically takes a noticeable amount of time to complete. In that way the time needed to re establish a wireless connection may be reduced. If however none of the wireless access points are in range of or otherwise available to the local computing device when probed the wireless connection management module may instead instruct the wireless communication module to initiate a scan to identify other wireless access points located in the proximity of the local computing device . Additionally since the local computing device off loads the analysis of historical connection information and generation of parameters to the remote analysis server the resources and processing capacity of the local computing device may be preserved.

Referring now to one embodiment of an environment of the remote analysis server includes a remote analysis module a communication module and the remote parameter database . It should be understood that the environment and or any of the modules included therein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

The communication module may facilitate communications between the remote analysis server and the local computing device over the network . For example in some embodiments the communication module may receive historical connection information sent for analysis by the local computing device . The communication module may also transmit one or more parameters computed from the historical connection information to the local computing device .

As discussed the remote analysis server may be configured to compute one or more parameters which may later be used by the local computing device to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely to be in range of the local computing device at a particular time. To do so the remote analysis module of the remote analysis server may utilize one or more artificial intelligence based techniques to compute or otherwise generate the parameters as a function of the historical connection information received from the local computing device . For example the remote analysis module may utilize one or more genetic algorithms to compute a set of parameters in some embodiments. In such embodiments each parameter in the set of parameters may be computed from the historical connection information received from the local computing device . As such each parameter may be embodied as a numeric constant that represents a probability of a previous wireless connection having occurred. For example the set of parameters computed by the remote analysis module may include a parameter indicative of the probability that a wireless connection established at a particular time of reference was the same as the last wireless connection e.g. the previous wireless connection that was established a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established 24 hours before the particular time of reference and a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established one week before the particular time of reference. In that way the remote analysis module may compute 0.4 0.35 0.25 as the set of parameters wherein 0.4 may be indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM was the same as the last wireless connection that was established e.g. Tuesday at 3 00 PM Monday at 10 00 PM etc. 0.35 may be indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM was the same as the wireless connection that was established 24 hours before e.g. Monday at 5 00 PM the particular time of reference and 0.25 may be indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM was the same as the wireless connection that was established one week before e.g. last Tuesday at 5 00 PM the particular time of reference.

It should be understood that although only three parameters are computed by the remote analysis module in the illustrative embodiment any number of different parameters having different probabilities may be computed in other embodiments. For example the remote analysis module of some embodiments may compute a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at a particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established one hour before the particular time of reference a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at a particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established one month before the particular time of reference or any additional parameter suitable for indicating the probability that a wireless connection established at a particular time was the same as another wireless connection established in the past.

In some embodiments the remote analysis module may utilize one or more genetic programming techniques to compute a set of parameters. In such embodiments each parameter in the set of parameters may instead be embodied as one or more prediction programs e.g. instructions program sequences etc. which may be later executed by local computing device to facilitate predicting which of wireless access points or the group of the wireless access points are most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time.

It should be understood that although only genetic algorithms and genetic programming techniques are described as being capable of being utilized to compute the parameters and or generate the prediction programs in the illustrative embodiment the remote analysis module may utilize any other technique suitable for computing parameters or generating prediction programs that later facilitate the local computing device predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time. For example the remote analysis module may compute generate and or determine one or more algorithms best suited e.g. most optimal for later use by the local computing device in predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time.

In some embodiments the remote analysis module may be configured to store the computed parameters and or generated prediction programs in one or more databases. For example the remote analysis module may store the computed parameters and or generated prediction programs in the remote parameter database . Of course it should be understood that the remote analysis module may also be configured to store the computed parameters and or generated prediction programs in any suitable data storage and or memory device e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory devices of the remote analysis server .

Referring now to at least one embodiment of a method for logging wireless connection information with the local computing device and sending the wireless connection information to the remote analysis server for analysis begins with block . In block the local computing device may record connection information corresponding to one or more past or present wireless connections established between the local computing device and the one or more wireless access points . The connection information may comprise information describing the wireless connections themselves e.g. connection start time and date connection end time and date connection duration etc. or information describing characteristics or data associated with the one or more wireless access points with which the local computing device connects e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. . The local computing device may store the recorded connection information in a database e.g. the wireless connection database . In some embodiments the connection information may also be stored in a log file or in any other format suitable to store information associated with one or more past or present wireless connections between the local computing device and the one or more wireless access points .

At block the local computing device may determine whether a connection to the network via one or more of the wireless access points exists. To do so the local computing device may monitor for the establishment of a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points . In some embodiments the local computing device may be configured to utilize the information stored in the wireless connection database to facilitate determining whether a connection to the network exists. If the local computing device determines that a connection to the network exists the method advances to block . If however the local computing device determines that a connection to the network does not exist the method loops back to block and continues logging connection information.

At block the local computing device retrieves historical connection information stored in the wireless connection database . The historical connection information may include connection information corresponding to one or more wireless connections previously recorded in the wireless connection database by the local computing device . After retrieving the historical connection information from the wireless connection database the local computing device transmits the retrieved connection information over the network to the remote analysis server .

Referring now to at least one embodiment of a method for analyzing historical connection information with the remote analysis server to compute parameters and thereafter send the computed parameters to the local computing device begins with block . In block the remote analysis server receives historical connection information sent over the network by the local computing device . The method then advances to block .

In block the remote analysis server computes one or more parameters and or prediction programs which may later be used by the local computing device to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely to be in range of the local computing device at a particular time e.g. a desired time of prediction . To do so the remote analysis server may utilize one or more artificial intelligence based techniques to compute or otherwise generate the parameters and or prediction programs a function of the historical connection information received from the local computing device . In some embodiments the remote analysis server utilizes one or more genetic algorithms and or genetic programming techniques to generate the parameters and or prediction programs. Each parameter and or prediction program may be indicative of or otherwise correspond to a different connection probability computed from the received historical connection information. At completion or at any appropriate time during computation the method advances to block in which the remote analysis server stores the computed parameters and or prediction programs in one or more databases e.g. the remote parameter database . Upon storing the computed parameters and or prediction programs in one or more databases the method advances to block .

At block the remote analysis server determines whether a request to refresh parameters has been received from the local computing device . The request to refresh parameters received from the local computing device may be embodied as a request from the local computing device to be sent new and or updated parameters. If the remote analysis server determines a request for new and or updated parameters has been received from the local computing device the method advances to block . If however the remote analysis server determines a request for new and or updated parameters has not been received from the local computing device the method loops back to block .

In block the remote analysis server retrieves any new and or updated parameters from the remote parameter database . Upon retrieving new and or updated parameters from the remote parameter database the remote analysis server transmits the new and or updated parameters to the local computing device which may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time.

It should be understood that although the remote analysis server performs the method in the illustrative embodiment of other devices may instead perform all or a portion of the method in other embodiments. For example in some embodiments the remote analysis server may perform the method in cooperation with the remote computing device . In that way the remote analysis server and the remote computing device may each analyze a portion of the historical connection information sent by the local computing device and thereby compute the parameters. To do so the local computing device may send the historical connection information to the remote analysis server which in turn may send a portion of the received historical connection information to the remote computing device . The remote computing device may analyze the portion of the historical connection information received from the remote analysis server and thereafter return the results to the remote analysis server for further processing e.g. aggregation further analysis computation of parameters etc. . In some embodiments the remote computing device may instead implement the method in the illustrative embodiment of . In such embodiments the local computing device may send the historical connection information to the remote computing device rather than the remote analysis server . In response the remote computing device may analyze the historical connection information sent by the local computing device to compute the parameters which are subsequently sent to the local computing device .

Referring now to at least one embodiment of a method for requesting new parameters from the remote analysis server using the local computing device begins with block . In block the local computing device determines if one or more locally stored parameters should be refreshed. The local computing device may do so in response to determining that one or more events have occurred or trigger conditions have been met. For example in some embodiments the local computing device may be configured to monitor the signal strength of a wireless communication channel established between the local computing device and one of the wireless access points for example the AP . In such embodiments the local computing device may determine that one or more locally stored parameters should be refreshed in response to detecting that the signal strength is equal to or below a reference signal strength threshold. It should be understood that the local computing device may determine that one or more locally stored parameters should be refreshed in response to the occurrence of any other suitable event or trigger condition e.g. battery level of the local computing device impending loss of connectivity to the network on a particular day of the week at a particular time in response to a manual request by a user of the local computing device etc. . If the local computing device determines that one or more locally stored parameters should be refreshed the method advances to block . If however the local computing device determines that none of the locally stored parameters should be refreshed the method loops back to block in which the local computing device continues determining if one or more locally stored parameters should be refreshed. In block the local computing device requests that new and or updated parameters be sent by the remote analysis server . To do so the local computing device may transmit the request to the remote analysis server over the network . The method then advances to block .

In block the local computing device receives the requested new and or updated parameters from the remote analysis server over the network . In some embodiments the local computing device locally stores the new and or updated parameters received from the remote analysis server in a local parameter database to later facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the local computing device at a given time. In embodiments wherein other devices e.g. the remote computing device perform all or a portion of the analysis and computation of parameters from the historical connection information the local computing device may instead send the request for new parameters to those other devices e.g. the remote computing device which subsequently provide the new parameters to the local computing device .

Referring now to at least one embodiment of a method for using the parameters received from the remote analysis server to predict an available wireless access point for reconnection with the local computing device begins with block . In block the local computing device determines whether re establishment of a wireless connection has been requested. To do so the local computing device may monitor in some embodiments for input received from a user via one or more of the peripheral devices i.e. keypads touch screens voice recognition components etc. of the local computing device . The input may be indicative of a request by the user to re establish a wireless connection with one of the wireless access points . Additionally or alternatively the local computing device may monitor for a notification and or indication generated by one or more components or operations of the local computing device . For example the local computing device may monitor for an indication from one or more components that the local computing device is initializing e.g. powering on turning on booting waking from a sleep or a suspended state etc. . If the local computing device determines that re establishment of a wireless connection has been requested the method advances to block . If the local computing device instead determines that re establishment of a wireless connection has not been requested the method proceeds back to block .

At block the local computing device retrieves the previously computed parameters and the historical connection information to facilitate predicting one or more of the wireless access points may be available for re establishing a connection. To do so the local computing device retrieves at block one or more parameters and or prediction programs from the local parameter database . As discussed above the one or more parameters and or prediction programs stored in the local parameter database correspond to the one or more parameters and or prediction programs previously computed by and received from the remote analysis server and or the remote computing device . Additionally the local computing device retrieves at block the most recent connection information from the wireless connection database . In some embodiments the most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database may comprise information describing one or more recent wireless connections for which the remote analysis server and or the remote computing device has not yet computed into a parameter or a prediction program. After retrieving the parameters and the most recent connection information the method advances to block .

In block the local computing device generates an ordered list comprising a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection. For example the local computing device may generate an ordered list comprising the top three wireless access points which may correspond to the three wireless connections having the highest determined probabilities of being available to re establish a wireless connection. In some embodiments the ordered list of the wireless access points may be arranged in a descending order according to the probability determined for each. Upon generating the ordered list the method advances to block .

In block the local computing device transmits a probe or a directed connection request to one or more of the wireless access points of the ordered list. In some embodiments the local computing device may transmit probes in a descending order according to the probability determined for each of the wireless access points of the ordered list. As such the local computing device may first transmit a probe to the wireless access point having the highest determined probability of being available to re establish a wireless connection before transmitting a probe to another wireless access point of the ordered list. For example if the ordered list generated by the local computing device comprises four of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP and AP the local computing device may first transmit a probe to the AP before transmitting a probe to the AP AP or AP . The method then advances to block .

In block the local computing device determines whether it received a response to the probe from the wireless access point to which the probe was directed. That is if the wireless access point to which the probe was directed e.g. AP is in range and available to re establish a wireless connection with the local computing device the wireless access point to which the probe was directed e.g. AP may transmit a response to the probe which may be received by the local computing device . If the local computing device receives a response from the wireless access point to which the probe was directed the method advances to block . If however the local computing device does not receive a response from the wireless access point to which the probe was directed the method advances instead to block .

In block the local computing device determines whether the wireless access point to which the probe was directed is the last wireless access point of the ordered list. If the local computing device determines that the wireless access point to which the probe was directed is not the last wireless access point of the ordered list the method returns to block to probe the next wireless access point of the ordered list e.g. the wireless access point having the next highest probability . If however the local computing device determines that the wireless access point to which the probe was directed is the last wireless access point of the ordered list the method advances to block . In block the local computing device initiates a scan to identify other wireless access points located in the proximity of the local computing device .

In block the local computing device may re establish a wireless connection with the wireless access point to which the probe was directed and a response was received therefrom. By predicting and directly probing the wireless access points that are most likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection at a given time the local computing device need not scan for available wireless access points which typically takes a noticeable amount of time to complete. In that way the time needed to re establish a wireless connection may be reduced. Additionally since the local computing device off loads the analysis of historical connection information and generation of parameters to the remote analysis server the resources and processing capacity of the local computing device may be preserved.

It should be understood that although the local computing device of the illustrative embodiment transmits probes in a descending order according to the probability determined for each of the wireless access points of the ordered list the local computing device may also contemporaneously e.g. simultaneously transmit a probe to each wireless access point of the ordered list in some embodiments. In such embodiments the local computing device may instead determine at block whether it received a response to the probes from any one of the wireless access points to which the probes were directed. If the local computing device receives a response from any one of the wireless access points to which the probes were directed the local computing device may re establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points that transmitted a response. In some embodiments the local computing device may re establish a wireless connection with the wireless access point first to respond to the probe. It should be understood however that the local computing device may instead determine to re establish a wireless connection with any of the one or more wireless access points according to a policy e.g. strongest signal strength device security policies user preferences etc. or any other suitable mechanism for selecting one of the responding wireless access points with which to re establish a wireless connection.

Illustrative examples of the devices systems and methods disclosed herein are provided below. An embodiment of the devices systems and methods may include any one or more and any combination of the examples described below.

Example 1 includes a local computing device for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point. The local computing device including a wireless connection logging module to record in a log stored on the local computing device wireless connection information for a plurality of wireless connections with one or more wireless access points the log including historical wireless connection information and recent wireless connection information a wireless connection management module to i retrieve the historical connection information stored on the local computing device ii transmit the retrieved historical connection information over a network to a remote analysis server and iii receive parameters calculated as a function of the historical connection information from the remote analysis server a prediction module to generate an ordered list from the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time as a function of the received parameters and the recent wireless connection information the recent wireless connection information including wireless connection information not yet used in calculation of the parameters wherein the wireless connection management module further to select a first wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection and a wireless communication module to send a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point.

Example 2 includes the subject matter of Example 1 and wherein each received parameter includes a prediction program generated using a genetic programming operation and wherein to generate an ordered list from the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time includes to execute the prediction program for each received parameter to generate the ordered list from the one or more wireless access points.

Example 3 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 and 2 and wherein each received parameter includes a probability computed as a function of the historical wireless connection information.

Example 4 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 3 and wherein the prediction module further to assign the probability computed for each received parameter to a different recent wireless connection of the plurality of wireless connections recorded in the log.

Example 5 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 4 and wherein the prediction module further to identify a wireless access point corresponding to each recent wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 6 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 5 and wherein the ordered list including the one or more wireless access points arranged in descending order according to the corresponding probability assigned to each different recent wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 7 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 6 and wherein to identify a wireless access point corresponding to each recent wireless connection recorded in the log includes to identify a wireless access point corresponding to each recent wireless connection recorded in the log as a function of one or more of a service set identifier a wireless channel and a media access control address associated with each wireless access point recorded in the log.

Example 8 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 7 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to establish a connection with the selected first wireless access point in response to the wireless communication module receiving a response to the probe frame from the selected first wireless access point.

Example 9 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 8 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to select a second wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection in response to the wireless communication module not receiving a response to the probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 10 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 9 and wherein the wireless communication module to send a probe frame to the first wireless access point includes to send a first probe frame to the first wireless access point and wherein the wireless connection management module further to send a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point in response to not receiving a response to the first probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 11 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 10 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to initiate a scan to locate one or more other wireless access points in response to the wireless communication module not receiving a response to the probe frame from any of the wireless access points of the ordered list.

Example 12 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 11 and wherein to send a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point includes to send a first probe frame to the selected first wireless access point and wherein the wireless connection management module further to select a second wireless access point and a third wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection and wherein the wireless communication module further to send a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point and a third probe frame to the selected third wireless access point contemporaneously with sending the first probe frame to the selected first wireless access point and wherein the wireless connection management module further to establish a connection with one of the selected first second or third wireless access points in response to the wireless communication module receiving a response to the probe frame from one of the corresponding selected first second or third wireless access points.

Example 13 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 12 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to request new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server.

Example 14 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 13 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to i monitor a signal strength between the wireless communication module and one or more of the wireless access points and ii determine whether the signal strength is equal to or below a reference signal strength threshold and wherein to request new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server includes to request new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server in response to determining that the signal strength is equal to or below the reference signal strength threshold.

Example 15 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 14 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to determine whether one or more components of the local computing device are shutting down and wherein to request new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server includes to request new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server in response to determining that one or more components of the local computing device are shutting down.

Example 16 includes a method for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point. The method includes recording on a local computing device in a log stored on the local computing device wireless connection information for a plurality of wireless connections with one or more wireless access points the log including historical wireless connection information and recent wireless connection information retrieving on the local computing device the historical connection information stored on the local computing device transmitting on the local computing device the retrieved historical connection information over a network to a remote analysis server receiving on the local computing device parameters calculated as a function of the historical connection information from the remote analysis server generating on the local computing device an ordered list from the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time as a function of the received parameters and the recent wireless connection information the recent wireless connection information including wireless connection information not yet used in calculation of the received parameters selecting on the local computing device a first wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection and sending on the local computing device a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point.

Example 17 includes the subject matter of Example 16 and wherein each received parameter includes a prediction program generated using a genetic programming operation and wherein generating an ordered list from the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time includes executing the prediction program from each received parameter to generate the ordered list from the one or more wireless access points.

Example 18 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 and 17 and wherein each received parameter includes a probability computed as a function of the historical wireless connection information.

Example 19 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 18 and further including assigning on the local computing device the probability computed for each received parameter to a different recent wireless connection of the plurality of wireless connections recorded in the log.

Example 20 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 19 and further including identifying on the local computing device a wireless access point corresponding to each recent wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 21 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 20 and wherein the ordered list including the one or more wireless access points arranged in descending order according to the corresponding probability assigned to each different recent wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 22 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 21 and wherein identifying a wireless access point corresponding to each recent wireless connection recorded in the log includes indentifying a wireless access point corresponding to each recent wireless connection recorded in the log as a function of one or more of a service set identifier a wireless channel and a media access control address associated with each wireless access point recorded in the log.

Example 23 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 22 and further including establishing on the local computing device a connection with the selected first wireless access point in response to receiving a response to the probe frame from the selected first wireless access point.

Example 24 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 23 and further including selecting on the local computing device a second wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection in response to not receiving a response to the probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 25 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 24 and wherein sending a probe frame to the first wireless access point includes sending a first probe frame to the first wireless access point and wherein the method further includes sending on the local computing device a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point in response to not receiving a response to the first probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 26 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 25 and further including initiating on the local computing device a scan to locate one or more other wireless access points in response to not receiving a response to the probe frame from any of the wireless access points of the ordered list.

Example 27 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 26 and wherein sending a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point includes sending a first probe frame to the selected first wireless access point and wherein the method further including i selecting on the local computing device a second wireless access point and a third wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection ii sending on the local computing device a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point and a third probe frame to the selected third wireless access point contemporaneously with sending the first probe frame to the selected first wirelesses access point and iii establishing on the local computing device a connection with one of the selected first second or third wireless access points in response to the receiving a response to the probe frame from one of the corresponding selected first second or third wireless access points.

Example 28 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 27 and further including requesting on the local computing device new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server.

Example 29 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 28 and further including monitoring on the local computing device a signal strength between the local computing device and one or more of the wireless access points determining on the local computing device whether the signal strength is equal to or below a reference signal strength threshold and wherein requesting new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server includes requesting new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server in response to determining that the signal strength is equal to or below the reference signal strength threshold.

Example 30 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 16 29 and further including determining on the local computing device whether one or more components of the local computing device are shutting down and wherein requesting new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server includes requesting new or updated parameters from the remote analysis server in response to determining that one or more components of the local computing device are shutting down.

Example 31 includes a local computing device for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point. The local computing device includes a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the local computing device to perform the method of any of Examples 16 30.

Example 32 includes one or more machine readable media including a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a local computing device performing the method of any of Examples 16 30.

Example 33 includes a remote analysis server for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point. The remote analysis server includes a communication module to receive historical connection information over a network from a local computing device and a remote analysis module to compute one or more parameters as a function of the received historical connection information wherein the communication module to transmit the one or more computed parameters to the local computing device for generating an ordered list from one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time.

Example 34 includes the subject matter of Example 33 and further including a remote parameter database to store the one or more parameters computed as a function of the received historical connection information.

Example 35 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 33 and 34 and wherein to compute one or more parameters as a function of the received historical connection information includes to generate a prediction program for each parameter using a genetic programming operation.

Example 36 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 33 35 and wherein each computed parameter includes a probability computed as a function of the received historical wireless connection information.

Example 37 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 33 36 and wherein the communication module further to receive a request for new or updated parameters from the local computing device.

Example 38 includes a method for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point. The method includes receiving on a remote analysis server historical connection information over a network from a local computing device computing on the remote analysis server one or more parameters as a function of the received historical connection information and transmitting on the remote analysis server the one or more computed parameters to the local computing device for generating an ordered list from one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time.

Example 39 includes the subject matter of Example 38 and further including storing on the remote analysis server the one or more parameters computed as a function of the received historical connection information in a remote parameter database.

Example 40 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 38 and 39 and wherein computing one or more parameters as a function of the received historical connection information includes generating a prediction program for each parameter using a genetic programming operation.

Example 41 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 38 40 and wherein each computed parameter includes a probability computed as a function of the received historical wireless connection information.

Example 42 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 38 41 and further including receiving a request for new or updated parameters from the local computing device.

Example 43 includes a remote analysis server for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point. The remote analysis server includes a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the remote analysis server to perform the method of any of Examples 38 42.

Example 44 includes one or more machine readable media including a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a remote analysis server performing the method of any of Examples 38 42.

