---

title: Method, device, and system for analyzing and ranking web-accessible data targets
abstract: A method of locating a relevant product belonging to a category of related products sharing predetermined product attributes is provided. At a client computer, a search topic associated with the category arrives from a user along with user-profile data like demographic, geographic, and situational data. A server locates at information locations some related products within the category, each having the pre-determined set of product attributes having associated content. For each product attribute, the content associated therewith in one of the located products is compared against content associated with the product attribute in each other located product and is assigned a relative score based on the comparison. The shared set of product attributes is prioritized based in part upon relevance of a product attribute to user profile data and the located products are ranked based on the prioritizing and the score of content associated with the product attributes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751322&OS=08751322&RS=08751322
owner: Jemstep, Inc.
number: 08751322
owner_city: Aventura
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120604
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 769 138 filed on Jun. 27 2007 and Ser. No. 13 280 739 filed on Oct. 25 2011 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to internet content location and ranking and in particular to ranking products based on criteria relevant and customized to each particular user and their need for the product.

The Internet is a publicly accessible worldwide network of other interconnected computer networks. It consists of millions of smaller domestic academic business and government networks which together carry various information and services such as electronic mail online chat file transfer and the interlinked Web pages and other documents of the World Wide Web.

The Internet and the World Wide Web Web are not synonymous. While the Internet is a collection of interconnected computer networks linked by any communicative means such as copper wires fiber optic cables wireless connections etc. the Web is a collection of interconnected documents and other resources linked by hyperlinks and Uniform Resource Locators URLs . The Web is accessible via the Internet as are many other services including e mail file sharing and others.

The Web is accessed by navigating to any of a vast amount of pages which are each located at a unique address. Each of these pages is able to contain content such as graphics text video and sound. Programmers control what content appears on each of these pages. In addition each page is able to link to other pages through hyperlinks. These other pages are identified by URLs embedded in the hyperlink and contain further content. Due in part to the ease in Web page programming the Web has experienced a steep exponential increase in the number of pages and correspondingly the amount of content available via the Internet.

Compared to traditional information sources such as encyclopedias and libraries the World Wide Web has enabled a rapid decentralization of information and data. To help locate this data search engines have been developed by a myriad of software developers. Search engines are well known document retrieval systems used to locate information stored on the Web. Through keyword driven Internet search engines like GOOGLE YAHOO ASKJEEVES and many others millions worldwide now have instant access to a vast and diverse amount of online information.

Known search engines work by accepting a user input keyword or keywords with which it uses to perform a comparison to content on Web pages. The comparison can be a basic direct comparison a complex algorithm or somewhere in between. Once a specified number of pages are searched the results are ranked in some order of relevance which is a term that has been given several definitions by those that rank information. The results are then displayed in a list with the determined most relevant page being at the top of the list and the least relevant at the bottom.

Unfortunately determining relevancy is not an exact science. Many search engines define the most relevant site as a site where the keyword appears most frequently. Others determine relevance by the number of other users that select that page when presented with a list of potentially relevant pages. Many other methods are used to attempt to find a page that will most closely fit what the searcher is looking for. Some search engines simply place the page that pays the most money to them as the top choice for the searcher.

However these relevancy determining methods are inefficient and inaccurate. For instance suppose a user is seeking a mutual fund and types in the key words mutual and fund. With all prior art search engines the user will not be shown a list of mutual funds with their associated details but will instead be presented with a list of pages that simply have the words mutual and fund on their page or in their associated metadata. Similarly if a user is seeking a credit card that user using existing search engines cannot be given a list of credit cards ranked by their attributes but will instead be shown a huge list of credit card related sites which may include credit card issuing companies credit card customizing companies stores that accept credit cards and many others that are presented to the user based on possibly irrelevant criteria such as which one pays the highest per click fee or which one generates the most web traffic.

There is currently no way for a searcher to know out of a list of usually thousands of located Web pages which page the searcher is seeking. Having to click on each of the non strategically and inaccurately ranked Web pages located after a search in order to determine which one is the most relevant is tedious for the searcher and creates a great deal of frustration.

The invention provides a method device and system for analyzing and ranking web accessible data targets that overcome the hereinafore mentioned disadvantages of the heretofore known devices and methods of this general type.

With the foregoing and other objects in view there is provided in accordance with the invention a method of locating a relevant product via a computer network the relevant product belonging to a category of related products sharing a pre determined set of product attributes associated therewith. The method includes at a client computer receiving a search topic from a user the search topic being associated with the category of related products and receiving user profile data including at least one of demographic geographic and situational data specific to the user. A server locates at one or more information locations at least two of the related products within the category of related products associated with the search topic each of the at least two located products having the pre determined set of product attributes associated therewith each product attribute having content associated therewith. At least one of the client computer and the server for each product attribute of the shared set of product attributes compares the content associated with the product attribute in one of the at least two located products against content associated with the product attribute in each of the other located products of the at least two located products and assigns a relative score to the content associated with the product attribute in each of the at least two located products based on the comparison. The shared set of product attributes are prioritized based at least in part upon a relevance of at least one product attribute to the user profile data and the at least two located products are ranked based on the prioritizing of the product attributes and the score of content associated with the product attributes.

With the objects of the invention in view there is also provided a system for locating a relevant product belonging to a category of related products sharing a pre determined set of product attributes associated therewith. The system comprises a client computer operable to receive a search topic from a user the search topic being associated with the category of related products to which the relevant product belongs and receive user profile data including at least one of demographic geographic and situational data specific to the user. The system comprises a server communicatively coupled to the client computer and operable to locate at one or more information locations at least two of the related products within the category of related products associated with the search topic each of the at least two located products having the pre determined set of product attributes associated therewith each product attribute having content associated therewith. At least one of the client computer and the server is operable for each product attribute of the shared set of product attributes to compare the content associated with the product attribute in one of the at least two located products against content associated with the product attribute in each of the other located products of the at least two located products and to assign a relative score to the content associated with the product attribute in each of the at least two located products based on the comparison. At least one of the client computer and the server is operable to prioritize the shared set of product attributes based at least in part upon a relevance of at least one product attribute to the user profile data and to rank the at least two located products based on the prioritizing of the product attributes and the score of content associated with the product attributes.

In accordance with another feature of the invention receiving the user profile data includes at least one of receiving inputs from the user searching data stored during a previous search initiated by the user for another product via the computer network and searching a database of pre stored user profile data.

In accordance with a further feature of the invention the user profile situational data includes information associated with the user s financial situation.

In accordance with an added feature of the invention the step of ranking the at least two products includes assigning a weight to the score of the content based upon the prioritization of the product attribute with which the content is associated.

In accordance with an additional feature of the invention the at least one information location from which to locate the at least two related products is selected based at least in part on at least one of the product attributes.

In accordance with yet another feature of the invention the at least two ranked located products are displayed by rank.

In accordance with yet a further feature of the invention the ranking of the at least two located products is updated in response to receiving a change to a priority of at least one of the product attributes.

In accordance with yet an added feature of the invention a user rating of a product is received and the at least two located products are ranked based at least in part on the user rating.

In accordance with yet an additional feature of the invention the ranking is automatically updated based on a change to the content associated with at least one of the product attributes in at least one of the at least two located products.

In accordance with a concomitant feature of the invention the user is notified of the updated ranking through a predefined communication channel.

Additional advantages and other features characteristic of the present invention will be set forth in the detailed description that follows and may be apparent from the detailed description or may be learned by practice of exemplary embodiments of the invention. Still other advantages of the invention may be realized by any of the instrumentalities methods or combinations particularly pointed out in the claims.

While the specification concludes with claims defining the features of the invention that are regarded as novel it is believed that the invention will be better understood from a consideration of the following description in conjunction with the drawing figures in which like reference numerals are carried forward.

Described now is an exemplary method and hardware platform for intelligently locating a product where the search for the product is performed over a computer network and the located product is selected by its relevance to a searcher and more particularly by its correlation to attributes associated with the searcher. Embodiments of the present invention locate not just web pages that reference link or offer a desired product but returns a list of results ranked by how well the product fits the searcher s needs and the searcher s situation. The term product as used herein is defined broadly and refers not only to physical objects but also to services and combinations of products and services such as credit cards.

With reference now to the figures is a pictorial representation of a networked system of data processing components in which the present invention may be implemented. The system includes a network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within the networked data processing system . The network provides communication between a plurality of user computers to and a plurality of information servers to . The network is for example the internet and provides on line services. The network servers to manage network traffic such as the communications between any given user s computer and an information server . The network may include wired or wireless connections. A few exemplary wired connections are cable phone line and fiber optic. Exemplary wireless connections include radio frequency RF and infrared radiation IR transmission. Many other wired and wireless connections are known in the art and can be used with the present invention.

The user computers are equipped with communications software including a World Wide Web WWW browser such as for example the NETSCAPE browser made by the NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS INTERNET EXPLORER made by MICROSOFT and FIREFOX by MOZZILLA that allows a searcher to connect and use on line searching services via the Internet. The software on a user computer manages the display of information received from the servers to the user computer and communicates user s actions back to the appropriate information servers so that additional display information may be presented to the user or the information acted on.

In the depicted example of servers are connected to network along with storage units . The storage units hold data and are searchable by and accessible to the servers via the network . As an alternative one or more of the storage units may be coupled directly to one of the servers by for instance a link .

The servers illustrated in and discussed hereafter are those of a product or service provider i.e. a merchant. While the following discussion is directed at communication between shoppers and merchants over the Internet it is applicable to any information seeker and any information provider on a network. For instance the information provider can be a library such as a University library the public library or the Library of Congress or other type of information providers. Information regarding a merchant and the merchant s products or services is stored in one of the databases to which the merchant servers have access. This may be the merchant s own database or a database of a supplier of the merchant.

In addition to the servers of individual merchants and other information providers the system also includes a plurality of search servers provided by search service providers such as GOOGLE which maintain full text indexes of the products of the individual merchants obtained by interrogating product information databases maintained by the individual merchants. Some of these search service providers like GOOGLE are general purpose search providers while others are topic specific search providers.

Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown. In the depicted example network data processing system includes the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for the present invention.

The invention according to an embodiment is a web based search application that runs on one of the client devices alone or in conjunction with one or more servers . shows a process flow diagram of the steps for information location performed by an embodiment of the present invention. The process begins at step and moves directly to step where a user selects a topic by typing clicking from a given list of topics or any of multiple other ways of selecting a topic. A few exemplary topics include mutual funds automobiles real estate jobs finance and others. Once a topic is selected a list of sub topics if applicable step will then be selectable by the user in step . For example the first topic might be Finance and a sub topic of finance would be Banking. From there further sub topics can be selected until finally a product such as Credit Card for example is chosen.

In step a query is made as to whether further sub topics are to be selected. If the answer to step is yes the flow moves back to step and a further sub topic is selected. If the answer to the query of step is no the flow continues to step where now that a topic and a sufficient number of sub topic levels have been traversed a list of products is displayed with each product being selectable by the user. In step a user selects one of the topics.

Once a product is selected in step a list of possible data sources for the query is retrieved. The system advantageously collects data from multiple sources. These sources are either static or dynamic online or offline or both. Some interactions with data sources will need to be dynamic for example interacting with the website of an airline to trawl flight availability. Depending on the nature of the search topic this may be one or a combination of a local data store where product information is cached and updated periodically either through push or pull techniques a web service or application programming interface API whereby product information is generated dynamically based on variable inputs or a web application whereby product information is generated dynamically and requires system interaction with the web site in order to reach a final result. For instance if the provider of the product offers an online facility to apply order or gain more information about the product the system in accordance with one embodiment is able to automatically glean pertinent information from the provider s resources.

The ability for the backend systems to know where to collect data from on a query by query basis and to determine if the data is stored locally or is dynamic and global is managed by a data collection component. This component is also responsible for the caching and cache management of data.

In step the data source s selected is are queried. Querying can be performed in several different ways. One example of this is web scraping which can be performed for instance by a semi trained agent. Web scraping with a semi trained agent involves a web robot tailored to meet the data presentation formats of a specific provider. This type of robot is most effective with a limited number of providers or in an instance where an intermediary party presents data collected from multiple sources in a similar format. Examples of these would be airline websites consumer watchdog websites and financial portals. Scraping occurs after the document object model of the web page has been generated and is not merely scraping data from raw markup languages.

The training stage of a robot involves processing each seed with a monitor that watches human interactions with the website. Required input variables are linked to object structures which contain user data for example unknownPage.Document.Form.INPUT TEXT PASSENGER LASTNAME FirsName LastName. The agent simulates the steps for each new query and moves to the specified results page. The results are scraped and combined into the products attributes and are ready for the ranking function. Table parsing mechanisms are used to extract data cleanly. The data can be periodically updated and structural changes to the source are flagged.

Another data acquisition method is through use of source discovery and untrained data collection. Source discovery involves the processes used by meta search engines to locate sources of data which may be relevant. By parsing the results of multiple search engines the agent attempts to identify possible sources of relevant information and generates a seed list. The agent then visits the seeds and attempts to extract and verify data by one or more of the following 

A few other data collection methods include data sharing schemes and pushed or submitted data. By either purchasing data or participating in revenue sharing schemes the invention can obtain access to data collected by market researchers or data providers. With pushed or submitted data providers can submit their own product details to the present invention by using an API.

An example of a query performed by the present invention could include the user s location information and or the importance of a particular attribute of the product which can be set by system defaults or through user interaction. In step the system automatically displays the best choice for the particular product selected by the user. The best of a particular product is represented in one embodiment of the present invention in a multi tiered structure. For example tier 1 row 1 can state The best CD in the country based off your criteria is ExampleBank1 High Yield CD. Tier 2 row 2 can state The best in your state is ExampleBank2 CD. This may be the case if for example the state is Alabama but ExampleBank1 does not have a presence in Alabama. Finally Tier 3 row 3 can state The best CD in your town where ExampleBank1 ExampleBank2 do not have a presence is ExampleBank3 CD. When the result in tier 2 matches tier 1 the tiers are merged into one and so on as in the screenshot .

Determining the best item in a list is a task that has been attempted by many developers over the years. The determination of best in accordance with embodiments of the present invention varies depending on many factors. However the present invention is advantageous over all prior art devices in that the invention dynamically changes based on the attributes used for the search and the hierarchy of these attributes. For instance for a product that is relevant to a location the best selection may be based on the best in a country the best in a particular state and or the best in a user s geographical area. Continuing with the example of a credit card as the desired product the determination of best may turn on factors such as 

Each of these factors is found in information fields associated with the product. Information fields are any data area on a page connected to a product. For a product relevant to time e.g. stocks bonds currencies etc. rankings may be based on current statistics best of the day statistics monthly or yearly numbers and others.

In step the user is queried as to whether or not the results should be narrowed. If the answer to the query of is yes the list can be narrowed in step automatically or manually by for instance selecting only those products which are offered within a specified distance from the user s location or another defined location. From step the flow moves back to step . In step the searcher is given the option to narrow the search results even further. The search may be further narrowed by choosing or adjusting a user attribute e.g. a poor credit history or no credit record or a product attribute e.g. the card must allow for 0 APR on balance transfers. In addition a ranking of the importance of attributes defined for the user or the product can factor into the final product ranking. An example search result would be Within your region X may be broken down into country state city Bank Y offers credit card Z which best meets your requirements. This result may be a live result i.e. displayed directly after a query or may be tracked by the system over time in order to identify when a more applicable product becomes available. Tracking products over time is advantageous in that it allows the system to notify the user if changes occur to the product such as a change in interest rate for instance. If no further narrowing is needed the process ends at step .

In at least one respect the invention according to certain embodiments is a topical or vertical search engine which operates on a set of pre defined data structures representing a product or service offered by a provider or player within an industry. For example a data structure can be the generic or ontological attributes of a credit card and the institution offering the product. By taking into account the profile data of the user and or by being directed by the user s interaction with the inventive engine the system recommends a best fit product that meets the user s requirements.

The following description and referenced figures provides an example of data location utilizing the present invention. The chosen example product is a credit card which advantageously provides a complex scenario which illustrates the various considerations when determining a product s ranking and illustrates how a user would work with the presented information. A credit card is just one example of a search topic and many additional search topics exist within all other industries such as real estate investments telecommunications healthcare and many others.

Field presents a list of fixed variables for the desired type of credit card. The ranking system of the present invention is able to rank all cards of the same type. A few exemplary ranking fields are All Credit Cards Regular Credit Cards Secured Cards Rewards Card Air Travel Rewards Card Gift Merchandise and others.

There is also in this example a field that provides help describes the current selection and or provides interaction tips. The field can change depending on the selection made in field . The description field provides support to the user and helps the user make the correct selection.

A clickable link is provided in field that selects the ranking method of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention rank products in a standard three step process if no selection is made. First it assigns a score to each attribute of every card rating its comparison to other cards in the same category of cards e.g. Rewards Cards. Second the scores are assigned a weight based upon how relevant each attribute is to the individual user and then the scores are re scored. Lastly the scores of each attribute are tallied and in this example the cards are scored against each other with the overall highest score ranked 1.

For the system to gain the importance rating of each attribute there are three levels of complexity system default ratings preset scaled ratings and in depth custom ratings. This ranking system applies to all products and will be explained in further detail below. If a user changes from the default ranking system to some other ranking system a message appears in field indicated this change.

By refining their location the users are able to have direct access to products in their geographical region. Although in the credit card example this is rarely used as the vast majority of cards are available nationally. However there are still a significant number of cards which rely on smaller geographical regions.

The scale is structured as a series between two values for instance 0 and 100. Zero meaning high indebtedness and 100 meaning high cash flow. Users can drag the scale arrow to find the position which best suites their situation. Value shows the position of the arrow in the scale. Although the positions are grouped into preset categories the selected value still plays a part in the importance calculation. Field provides a description of the preset category. Once the user has positioned the arrow clicking button will indicate to the system that the scale value should be used as an input for the ranking function. As an alternative the user can select system defaults by clicking the Let System Choose For Me button . If no changes are desired the panel can be hidden by clicking button . By clicking on the tab at the top of the screen users can pull up a screen that allows them to enter custom ratings.

The custom ratings are selected by moving a slider bar for each corresponding attribute group . The slider groups shown in may not always be the attributes themselves but can be low level groupings of the attributes to allow for a more fine tuned view. For example the attribute group Penalty Charges applies to the attributes late payment fee and over the limit fee. This section is useful for users with a good knowledge of cards.

At the bottom of the screen is two buttons. The first button indicates to the system that the attributes are satisfactorily set and that they should be used to conduct a customized search. The second button tells the system to use system default values to conduct the search. In one embodiment default data is combined with available profile data and used as inputs for the ranking function. It should be noted that the screens shown in the figures and described here are merely exemplary and that the invention is not limited in anyway to what is shown in the figures or described in these examples.

Field shows the ranking of the product compared to all other returned products in the particular search. Field shows an image of the product if available otherwise a no preview image appears. In the next field the name of the product in this case credit card and the institution providing the card is shown. Field provides a summary of key points the card has to offer. One advantage of the present invention is that the jargon is reduced. The user can interact with the system further to get additional attributes of the product if he she desires.

In one embodiment of the present invention a user star ranking system is implemented. The user star ranking is a custom satisfaction rating which is collected from users and or retrieved from consumer watchdog websites. The ranking system scores the attributes of the product and weighs the importance of each as applicable to the user. It has the ability to combine quantitative data as well as qualitative data in order to generate a ranking. In the event the inventive system is unable to collect data for a product an overall rating for an institution can be factored into its product rating. Ratings are determined by the overall average score for the product however weightings can vary between the various data sources. For example ratings collected through the present invention can have a weighting of 1 whereas ratings from less reputable sites will have a rating of 0.8.

Although the consumer rating of the card is displayed separately it is still used as part of the ranking function as an attribute. It is also possible that the consumer rating will be featured as a tie breaker amongst rankings.

The results screen of also features an Info button . By clicking the Info button a user can cause a panel to display that will list the individual attributes of the card as compared to all other cards selected on the page. This comparison is shown for instance in which is explained below.

As an additionally advantageous feature for the credit card application and for other similar products an Apply button is provided on the results page . The Apply button used in conjunction with an online application facility allows the user to apply for the product online. This function can direct the user to a product provider s web page or can call up an information submission screen s which can be used to collect information and then forward the information to a product provider s business either electronically or in tangible form.

In one embodiment the user is able to select through use of field in graphical user interface shown in their existing credit card and find out where it ranks on the scale which led to the selection of card 1 being found. It also gives hypothetical expenditure examples for instance if a user were purchasing on one card as opposed to another. Section is shown in greater detail in .

Selecting a product can be performed by first selecting on a first tab through an input field the provider and then narrowing down through another input field to the individual product. The user s choice of product in this case a credit card is displayed in fields . Field shows the card s ranking against other cards in its class. Fields and show product identification text and if available an image of the product. Field provides a summary of the card s attributes. A consumer rating of the card is shown in field . By selecting the Info button a screen can be reached which shows more detailed attributes of the card.

In one embodiment what if scenarios are available and allow a user to convert the card attributes into dollar terms based on the user s scenario. What if scenarios can be entered by clicking on tab . These scenarios can be a powerful tool for the user as it allows him her to actually simulate different financial situations. If the invention were used for instance with mutual funds it would allow the user to enter different scenarios pertinent to mutual funds such as varying interest rates terms tax rates etc.

A third available tab allows the user to select a comparison of multiple credit cards. In this function selected cards are compared attribute by attribute in a detailed table. Further information can be provided to the user by either furnishing contact details to the provider or sending a request to the provider for product brochures and other information.

The interaction summary page can form a part of a landing page for registered users and be available through various web feed formats such as RSS. RSS is used to publish frequently updated content such as blog entries news headlines or podcasts. An RSS document which is called a feed web feed or channel contains either a summary of content from an associated web site or the full text. RSS makes it possible for people to keep up with their favorite web sites in an automated manner that is easier than checking them manually. Users have the ability to use their own web aggregators running on either their desktop or web blogs to pull this summary down and gain a perspective of their affairs without having to go through the arduous process of navigating to the website and logging in. All further interactions can therefore be conducted on the website.

The marketplace is an evolving entity. Decisions that are made today are not necessarily the best tomorrow. The present invention assists users in making decisions which are ongoing and continually relevant. This is achieved by continually searching for the better deal based on the user s requirements. If the system is able to recommend a more appropriate service provider or product the user is notified via a predefined communication channel. For instance as is shown in two of the fields and of column a warning indicator and respectively appears when conditions specified by the user are met. These warnings include an early and a late warning. The late notifier notifies a user if a better rate or price becomes available. The early notifier notifies the user of upcoming product events or requirements e.g. when funds are near their maturity date.

Referring to a block diagram of a data processing system that may be implemented as a server such as server and or server in is depicted in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors and connected to system bus . Alternatively a single processor system may be employed. Also connected to system bus is memory controller cache which provides an interface to local memory . I O bus bridge is connected to system bus and provides an interface to I O bus . Memory controller cache and I O bus bridge may be integrated as depicted. The processor or in conjunction with memory controller controls what data is stored in memory . The processor or can also work in conjunction with any other memory device or storage locations such as storage areas to serve as a monitor for monitoring data being stored and or accessed on the data storage areas 

Peripheral component interconnect PCI bus bridge connected to I O bus provides an interface to PCI local bus . A number of modems may be connected to PCI bus . Typical PCI bus implementations will support four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors. Communications links to network computers in may be provided through modem and network adapter connected to PCI local bus through add in boards.

Additional PCI bus bridges and provide interfaces for additional PCI buses and from which additional modems or network adapters may be supported. In this manner data processing system allows connections to multiple network computers. A memory mapped graphics adapter and hard disk may also be connected to I O bus as depicted either directly or indirectly.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. For example other peripheral devices such as optical disk drives and the like also may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted. The depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

In this document the terms computer program medium computer usable medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to media such as main memory removable storage drive removable media hard disk and signals. These computer program products are measures for providing software to the computer system. The computer readable medium allows the computer system to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium for example may include non volatile memory such as Floppy ROM Flash memory Disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. It is useful for example for transporting information such as data and computer instructions between computer systems. Furthermore the computer readable medium may include computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored in memory. Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the features of the present invention as discussed herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable the processor and or to perform the features of the computer system. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating a data processing system is depicted in which the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a client computer . Data processing system employs a peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus architecture. Although the depicted example employs a PCI bus other bus architectures such as Accelerated Graphics Port AGP and Industry Standard Architecture ISA may be used. Processor and main memory are connected to PCI local bus through PCI bridge . PCI bridge also may include an integrated memory controller and cache memory for processor . Additional connections to PCI local bus may be made through direct component interconnection or through add in boards. In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter SCSI host bus adapter and expansion bus interface are connected to PCI local bus by direct component connection. In contrast audio adapter graphics adapter and audio video adapter are connected to PCI local bus by add in boards inserted into expansion slots. Expansion bus interface provides a connection for a keyboard and mouse adapter modem and additional memory for example. Small computer system interface SCSI host bus adapter provides a connection for hard disk drive tape drive and CD ROM drive for example. Typical PCI local bus implementations will support three or four PCI expansion slots or add in connectors.

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within data processing system in . Each client is able to execute a different operating system. The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as WINDOWS XP which is available from Microsoft Corporation. A database program such as ORACLE may run in conjunction with the operating system and provide calls to the operating system from JAVA programs or applications executing on data processing system . Instructions for the operating system the object oriented operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash ROM or equivalent nonvolatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

As another example data processing system may be a stand alone system configured to be bootable without relying on some type of network communication interface whether or not data processing system includes some type of network communication interface. As a further example data processing system may be a Personal Digital Assistant PDA device which is configured with ROM and or flash ROM in order to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data.

The depicted example in and above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. For example data processing system also may be a notebook computer or hand held computer in addition to taking the form of a PDA. Data processing system also may be a kiosk or a Web appliance.

Fields and present lists of fixed variables for the desired type of fund. Field is a category and field is a subcategory of the family and fund. In one embodiment the drop down choices for the category include for example Bond Funds Hybrid Funds International Stockfunds and U.S Stock funds. The subcategories in drop down box include for example Large Blend and Large Growth funds.

Field allows a user to specify the amount that they wish to invest. This field can be used to filter funds by their required initial investment amount or that use an investment amount as a criteria for some factor related to the fund.

A clickable link is provided in field that selects the ranking method of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention rank products in a standard three step process if no selection is made. First it assigns a score to each attribute of every fund or whatever product is the subject of the search rating its comparison to other funds in the same category of funds. Second the scores are assigned a weight based upon how relevant each attribute is to the individual user and then the scores are re scored. Lastly the scores of each attribute are tallied and in this example the funds are scored against each other with the overall highest score ranked 1.

For the system to gain the importance rating of each attribute there are three levels of complexity system default ratings preset scaled ratings and in depth custom ratings. This ranking system applies to all products. shows a graphical user interface screen that appears once a user clicks on the link . Similar to the credit card example this screen dictates how the present invention will rate the funds under consideration.

The first selectable field of is field which defines the time period for consideration. The invention will track a fund or family of funds over the period selected to determine a yield or other attribute. The following fields and are exemplary attributes of a mutual fund that might be useful in comparing two or more funds. The first field has a slider for selecting an importance rating for the attribute of appreciation. The second field has a slider for selecting an importance rating for the attribute of yield. The third field has a slider for selecting an importance rating for the attribute of total return. After setting the importance ratings of one or more of the fields their values are input to the system by clicking on the update ratings button at the bottom of the screen .

Returning back to field is a clickable link to determine how the present invention filters the funds. An exemplary graphical user interface that would appear after a user clicks link is shown in . This screen can be used by for example investors who have to invest as per a mandate established by their investing organization. The screen has a checkbox that indicates to the system that the user wishes to filter the families by the total net asset value of the family. If this checkbox is checked the system will use the value in that user entry field which indicates to the system the net asset value by which to filter funds. A second checkbox indicates to the system that the user wishes to filter families of funds by how many funds each family of funds possesses. If this checkbox is checked the system will filter based on the number of funds indicated in box . A button upon being clicked updates the filters and refreshes the rankings.

The next main section of shows the number one family of funds and the number one fund . The results shown in fields and are typically displayed as soon as a search is activated and returns a result. Each of the fields and have a text field and respectively that states in appropriate circumstances which product is best given a particular location.

In the next fields and a fund family s performance and a fund s performance respectively over a period of time is shown. This period of time is identified in the header and above the fields and respectively. An identifier of the fund family and family of funds is shown in fields and respectively. Fields and provide a summary of key aspects of the number one ranked fund family and fund respectively. These number one ranked products may preferably conform to the location information entered into field . One advantage of the present invention is that the jargon is reduced. The user can interact with the system further to get additional attributes of the product if he she desires.

In one embodiment of the present invention an analyst star ranking system is implemented. The analyst star ranking is a custom satisfaction rating which is collected from analyst and or retrieved from other information sources. The ranking system scores the attributes of the product. It has the ability to combine quantitative data as well as qualitative data in order to generate a ranking. In the event the inventive system is unable to collect data for a product an overall rating for an institution can be factored into its product rating. Ratings are determined by the overall average score for the product however weightings can vary between the various data sources. For example ratings collected through the present invention can have a weighting of 1 whereas ratings from less reputable sites will have a rating of 0.8. Although the analyst rating of the fund is displayed separately it can still used as part of the ranking function as an attribute. It is also possible that the analyst rating will be featured as a tie breaker amongst rankings.

The results field also features an Info button . By clicking the Info button a user can cause a panel to display that will list the individual attributes of the fund as compared to all other funds selected on the page.

Ranking field provides two tabs. The first tab when selected allows a user to enter a fund family identifying code in the field . This section ranks the user s family which he she has invested in. These rankings are continually updated when the user changes the filter or scale requirements. This is so the user has a view of his own fund ranking as it arises within the changing criteria. Upon depressing a button a screen similar to the one shown in is shown to the user.

A second tab brings up a screen similar to screen shown in . Screen allows users to see the individual funds performance. Further interaction in this section will allow the user to track the performance of the fund over time at set intervals. The performance can be presented with a ranking as well as the percentage change.

The graphical user interface shown in is not meant to be limiting. The present invention is not necessarily required to have all of the features shown and may also have additional features.

The present invention is an impartial and objective web application for intelligently locating a product where the search for the product is performed over a computer network that is accessible to users through any internet access device including personal computers laptops mobile telephones and many others. The invention accepts predefined and or open ended search criteria and user profile data and responds to user direction to access one or many data sources in order to identify the optimal search candidate within a finite set of possible candidates constructed for a predefined problem. The located product is selected by its relevance to a searcher and more particularly by its correlation to attributes associated with the searcher. Embodiments of the present invention locate not just web pages that reference link or offer a desired product but returns a list of results ranked by how well the product fits the searcher s needs and the searcher s situation.

The present invention according to one embodiment produces a ranking of relevant products by receiving a search topic from a user and one or more attributes associated with the user. The attributes are factors such as demographics or situational data specific to the user. The invention then searches multiple information locations for the search topic and also searches at least one information field connected to each information location and associated with the topic. The invention then associates content in at least one of the information fields with at least one of the attributes. By associating the invention is making a logical correlation between the content of one of the information fields and one of the attributes input by the user. This correlation may not be direct. For example the user may enter the attributes of his total debt and his income. The invention may associate these attributes to an information field containing a maximum limit of a loan and also to a minimum credit score. The user s credit score can be calculated by the present invention based on debt vs. income. The information fields are then prioritized thereby creating a hierarchy of factors based on importance or relevance. For instance the user may wish to find a credit card with the highest credit limit so he can move debt rather than worry about an interest rate. Based on the prioritization the products are ranked against each other.

Embodiments of the present invention build a comprehensive profile of users by monitoring user click through events and recommendation acceptance. This comprehensive set of mine able data increases the invention s ability to recommend suitable products and may lead to a sustainable source of income.

The system has the potential to cause providers to make their products more competitive and attractive to consumers by offering quantifiable benefits. Although qualitative aspects of a product are not disregarded users are allowed to rate this separately the recommendation of which product s best fit s the user s profile and search requirements is presented. This coupled with the ability to present recommendations of products far beyond the average consumer s top of mind awareness is a great leveler of the playing field which provides a huge advantage to consumer decision making.

The present invention is able to affect multiple industries which included investments borrowing insurance travel healthcare telecommunications education and many others.

The present invention provides many advantages over previously known search engines. For one the results rankings are particular to the user conducting the search and have no bearing on other users of the system. Specifically where most search engines take into account the number of other users that navigate to a page the present invention makes each search tailored only to the user conducting the search. The present invention rates products and services on their attributes and the relevance of each attribute to the searching user s profile.

The invention is impartial and objective because it is based on published industry specific data. Queries processed by the system are those which are directed at a particular industry in order to find a quantifiable result. This could be a financial rate comparison top rated service provider or a product which best meets the needs of the user. The result of a query is impartial as the entity providing the inventive service gains no financial reward from making its recommendation.

Furthermore the knowledge base and data repository of the present invention is built on published information e.g. web data and or data that is compiled by a trustworthy impartial third party. The operator of the present invention is not required to obtain subscriptions from service providers nor prioritize results based on any financial incentives. Advantageously embodiments of the present invention create an automated live data repository which is continuously up to date and actively monitoring changes in the marketplace and seeking new providers and products.

Web users are generally familiar with formulating natural language queries in order to receive a list of possible answers then manually filtering the results in order to locate the most relevant answer. However the ability to formulate an effective natural language query depends on the level of sophistication a user has within a particular field.

Through use of the present invention users are guided through a question answer based expert system assists the user in narrowing the query and filtering results to find the most relevant and beneficial single result within the target industry. The expert systems are industry specific and developed in conjunction with experts operating in that particular field. This allows the present invention to provide a service to both sophisticated and unsophisticated users alike allowing both to achieve the best possible result.

One further advantage is that the present invention is able to present the most relevant result only. In such an embodiment the ultimate goal is to offer the single best suited result based on the user s query criteria and requirements i.e. one query equals one result.

Additionally where possible and or applicable the inventive system facilitates the transaction between the user and the service provider. This may be in the form of an online transaction or simply the presentation of contact details.

The invention advantageously provides a diverse application platform that assists the user in making the most informed decision and monitoring the effectiveness of that decision over any given length of time.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiments. Furthermore it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

