---

title: System and method for providing selective and visible personalized content for webpages
abstract: Methods and systems for providing content for webpages are disclosed. The disclosed method includes providing a plurality of selections to set webpage personalization settings and receiving a user selection chosen from one of the plurality of selections. The plurality of selections is provided for a graphic user interface to be defined on a webpage. After receiving a request for a second webpage made by a user through a user device, the content for the second webpage is selected based on the received user selection. The content selection for the second webpage includes identifying two or more content modules for presenting on the second webpage and at least one of the identified content modules includes an associated content indicator. The selected content for the second webpage is then forwarded to the user device for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588784&OS=09588784&RS=09588784
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09588784
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120828
---
The invention relates generally to providing content to webpages and more particularly to selecting content for a requested webpage based on the received user selection.

Nowadays in order to attract more users online service providers would like to provide more personalized content for the requested webpages. Usually a portion of the content in a requested webpage is personalized based on the user s past online activities and the user has no control over how the content in the requested webpage is personalization. Since the user s interest may change from time to time some or all of the personalized content in a requested webpage may not be compelling to the user anymore. Furthermore the user has no knowledge which portion of the content is personalized in a requested webpage.

In view of the forgoing there is a need for a system and method for providing content for a requested webpage based on a user selection that defines the personalization settings for the webpage.

Embodiments of the disclosure provide methods and system define a mechanism that is used for providing content for webpages. It should be appreciated that the present embodiments can be implemented in numerous ways such as a process an apparatus a system a device or a method on a computer non transitory readable medium. Several embodiments are described below.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for providing content for webpages. The disclosed method includes providing a plurality of selections to set webpage personalization settings and receiving a user selection chosen from one of the plurality of selections. The plurality of selections is provided for a graphic user interface to be defined on a webpage. After receiving a request for a second webpage from a user device of a user the content for the second webpage is selected based on the received user selection. The content selection for the second webpage includes identifying two or more content modules for presenting on the second webpage and at least one of the identified content modules includes an associated content indicator that shows the personalization setting status for the content in the associated content module. The selected content for the second webpage is then forwarded to the user device for display.

In another embodiment a system for providing content for webpages is disclosed. The system includes a server coupled to the Internet. The server is equipped with a content processor configured to provide a plurality of selections for a graphic user interface to be defined on a webpage to set webpage personalization settings and to receive a user selection chosen from one of the plurality of selections. The content processor in the server is further configured to receive a request for a second webpage through a user device of the user and to select the content for the second webpage based on the received use selection. The content selection for the second webpage may include identifying two or more content modules for presenting on the requested webpage and at least one of the content modules includes an associated content indicator. The content processor in the server can also be configured to forward the selected content for the second webpage to the user device for display.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a computer non transitory readable media equipped with program instructions which when executed by a computer system directs the computer system to provide content for webpages. The computer non transitory readable media comprises program instructions for providing a plurality of selections for a graphic user interface to be defined on a webpage to set webpage personalization settings and receiving user selection chosen from one of the plurality of selections. The computer non transitory readable media further comprises program instructions for receiving a request for a second webpage from a user device of the user and selecting the content for the requested second webpage based on the received user selection. The content selection for the requested second webpage may include identifying two or more content modules for presenting on the requested second webpage and at least one of the content modules includes an associated content indicator. The selected content for the requested second webpage is forwarded to the user device for display.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the embodiments and accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide system methods and computer non transitory readable media for providing contents for webpages. More particularly a method for providing content for webpages includes providing a plurality of selections for a graphic user interface to be defined on a webpage to set webpage personalization settings and receiving a user selection chosen from one of the plurality of selections. The method further includes receiving a request for a second webpage made by a user through a user device and selecting the content for the second webpage based on the received user selection. The content selection for the second webpage includes identifying two or more content modules to be presented on the second webpage. At least one of the identified content modules includes an associated content indicator. The content indicator may show the personalization setting status for the content in the associated content module. The selected content for the requested second webpage is then forwarded to the user device for display. The disclosed method may be executed by a content processor in a server managed by an online service provider. The server is coupled to the Internet.

A user may select from one of the plurality of selections provided and send the user selection to the content processor of the server via the Internet. Based on the user selection all or a portion of the identified content modules for the requested second webpage are personalized. The selected content may be personalized based on the online activities of the user s social network friends so as to attract more users from the social network to visit the web services provided by the server. In this way the user can have control over the personalization settings for the requested second webpage and know which content module in the requested second webpage is personalized based on the indication of the content indicator associated with the content module.

Subject matter will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific example embodiments. Subject matter may however be embodied in a variety of different forms and therefore covered or claimed subject matter is intended to be construed as not being limited to any example embodiments set forth herein example embodiments are provided merely to be illustrative. Likewise a reasonably broad scope for claimed or covered subject matter is intended. Among other things for example subject matter may be embodied as methods devices components or systems. Accordingly embodiments may for example take the form of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof other than software per se . The following detailed description is therefore not intended to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims terms may have nuanced meanings suggested or implied in context beyond an explicitly stated meaning. Likewise the phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment and the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment. It is intended for example that claimed subject matter include combinations of example embodiments in whole or in part.

In general terminology may be understood at least in part from usage in context. For example terms such as and or or and or as used herein may include a variety of meanings that may depend at least in part upon the context in which such terms are used. Typically or if used to associate a list such as A B or C is intended to mean A B and C here used in the inclusive sense as well as A B or C here used in the exclusive sense. In addition the term one or more as used herein depending at least in part upon context may be used to describe any feature structure or characteristic in a singular sense or may be used to describe combinations of features structures or characteristics in a plural sense. Similarly terms such as a an or the again may be understood to convey a singular usage or to convey a plural usage depending at least in part upon context. In addition the term based on may be understood as not necessarily intended to convey an exclusive set of factors and may instead allow for existence of additional factors not necessarily expressly described again depending at least in part on context.

In one embodiment server is equipped with a content processor that interacts with user device through a server side application programming interface API and a corresponding user side API. In one embodiment server is coupled to a storage that includes a plurality of storage systems such as storage A storage B . . . storage N. The various storage systems in storage can provide online content for various webpages requested by Internet users. The content stored in storage can vary greatly but is commonly presented in digital format and can be displayed on monitors or screens of devices computer smartphones tablets etc. In one embodiment content processor of server may provide a plurality of selections that define webpage personalization settings and the plurality of selection may be forwarded to a user device e.g. user device . The plurality of selections may be shown to a user in the form of a selection module in a webpage e.g. webpage . In one embodiment webpage may be a webpage requested by a user. In another embodiment webpage maybe a set up page associated with a user s profile maintained by server . In one embodiment webpage includes selection module and a plurality of content modules   to  N. In one embodiment each content module in webpage may include content related to the same category. For example content module   may include content related to current news content module   may include content related to sports and content module  N may contain advertisement.

In one embodiment the plurality of selections that define the webpage personalization settings is Full Moderate Friends Mix and Off. The plurality of selections may be presented in selection module in the form of radio buttons. A Full personalization setting means all of the content in the content modules displayed in webpage is personalized. A Moderate personalization setting means the content in a portion of the content modules displayed in webpage is personalized and the content in the remaining portion of the content modules displayed in webpage is editorially curated. A Friends personalization setting means all of the content in the content modules displayed in webpage is personalized based on the online activities of the user s social network friends. A Mix personalization setting means the content in a portion of content modules displayed in webpage is personalized and at least a portion of the personalized content is based on the online activities of the user s social network friends. An Off personalization setting means all of the content in the content modules displayed in webpage are editorially curated.

In one embodiment a user may choose from one of the plurality of selections presented in selection module by clicking the radio button associated with the chosen selection. It is to be understood that the plurality of selections provided by content processor may be presented to a user in other selection means for example check boxes pull down menus etc. The user selection may be received by content processor of server .

In one embodiment a user can access storage by way of user device . User device may be any type of device having a processor and memory wired or wireless portable or not portable. User device may be a mobile user device such as a cellular phone smart phone or the like a laptop device a desktop device a personal computer or any other computing device that is capable of being coupled to Internet and communicate with server . Although illustrates one user device to be used by a user to access the service provided by server it is to be understood that in practice many more users may access the service including online contents provided by server and the service can be widely distributed across networks.

In one embodiment content processor of server may access social media server to monitor the online activities of the user s friends in a social network. Social media server may maintain a plurality of user profiles for a social network for the user who is using user device and his or her social network friends.

The term social network refers generally to a network of individuals such as acquaintances friends family colleagues or co workers coupled via a communications network or via a variety of sub networks. Potentially additional relationships may subsequently be formed as a result of social interaction via the communications network or sub networks. A social network may be employed for example to identify additional connections for a variety of activities including but not limited to dating job networking receiving or providing service referrals content sharing creating new associations maintaining existing associations identifying potential activity partners performing or supporting commercial transactions or the like.

A social network may include individuals with similar experiences opinions education levels or backgrounds. Subgroups may exist or be created according to user profiles of individuals for example in which a subgroup member may belong to multiple subgroups. An individual may also have multiple 1 few associations within a social network such as for family college classmates or co workers.

An individual s social network may refer to a set of direct personal relationships or a set of indirect personal relationships. A direct personal relationship refers to a relationship for an individual in which communications may be individual to individual such as with family members friends colleagues co workers or the like. An indirect personal relationship refers to a relationship that may be available to an individual with another individual although no form of individual to individual communication may have taken place such as a friend of a friend or the like. Different privileges or permissions may be associated with relationships in a social network. A social network also may generate relationships or connections with entities other than a person such as companies brands or so called virtual persons. An individual s social network may be represented in a variety of forms such as visually electronically or functionally. For example a social graph or socio gram may represent an entity in a social network as a node and a relationship as an edge or a link.

In one embodiment content processor of server may monitor the online activities of the user social network friends in social media server . The online activities of the user s social network friends may include social interaction and sharing made by the user s social network friends. For example the user s social network friends may share their likes dislikes or comments with the user. The social information can be shared in the social network streams or circles during live chats or video chats. In one embodiment this sharing can include sharing of recommendations regarding the online contents e.g. articles songs videos etc. provided by the user s social network friends. The social network friends recommendation may be obtained by content processor in server . In one embodiment if the user selects to have the content in webpage to be personalized according to his or her social network friends online activities content processor may select content from storage based on the monitored online activities of the user s social network friends and forward the selected content to the user device.

In one embodiment a vertical defines a type of media such as music movies communication shopping gaming etc. Within each vertical further contextual categories can be defined. For instance within music a context can be defined for types of music each artist etc. For example the second layer webpage   and all of the sub layer webpages defined under the webpage   can be defined as a vertical vertical  .

In one embodiment selection module that provides selections for defining webpage personalization settings for a user may be provided for the homepage . For example if the user chooses to have the Full personalization setting at the selection module at the homepage the user selection at the homepage will affect the selection of content for all of the webpages defined under the homepage and the homepage . As a result all content in all of the webpages defined under the homepage and the homepage are personalized.

In one embodiment selection module that provides selections for defining webpage personalization settings can be provided in a sub layer webpage for example webpage  . The user selection entered in selection module at webpage   will affect content selection for the webpages defined under the webpage   in the same vertical and the webpage  . Although the section module that provides selections for defining webpage personalization settings are shown at the homepage and the sub webpage   it is to be understood that the selection module may appear in every webpage e.g. a webpage   a webpage  N etc. or any selected webpages.

As shown content indicator for content module shows Friend  to indicate that Article  shown in content module is recommended by Friend  of the user. Content indicator for content module shows Friend  to indicate that the slide show shown in content module is recommended by Friend  of the user. Content indicator for content module shows Friend  and Friend  to indicate that Article  shown in content module is recommended by Friend  and Friend  of the user. In one embodiment Friend  Friend  and Friend  are the user s social network friends whose user profiles along with the user s profile are maintained by social media server . The recommendations of the user s social network friends may be monitored and obtained by content processor of server as shown in .

The method begins at operation where a plurality of personalization setting selections or simply selections is provided for a graphic user interface to be defined on a webpage. The plurality of selections is used to set webpage personalization settings. In one embodiment the plurality of selections is one or more of Full Moderate Friends Mix or Off. A Full selection means all content in the content modules displayed in the webpage is personalized. A Moderate selection means the content in a portion of the content modules is personalized and the content in the remaining content modules is editorially ranked. A Friends selection means that all of the content in the content modules displayed in the webpage is personalized based on the online activities of the user s social network friends. A Mix selection means that a mix of personalized and editorially ranked contents will be shown in the webpage and at least one content module includes content that is personalized based on the user s social network friends online activities. An Off selection means all content in the webpage will be editorially curated or ranked.

In one embodiment the plurality of selections is provided by content processor of server to the user who is accessing the web services via user device . The plurality of selections may be shown in the form of radio button selections in selection module that is displayed in webpage . As shown in one or more selection modules may be provided in the homepage of a website or any webpage in the website.

In operation a user selection chosen from one of the plurality of selections is received. As discussed above the plurality of selections along with the associated radio buttons may be displayed in the display screen of user device . In one embodiment the use selection is chosen by the user by clicking the corresponding radio button associated with the chosen selection. The user selection may be sent by user device via Internet to content processor of server .

In one embodiment the plurality of selections may be provided by content processor of server in the set up page of a user profile registered with a web service provided by the online service provider that manages server . In another embodiment the plurality of selections may be provided by content processor of server in any web page managed by the online service provider. As discussed above the user selection chosen from one of the plurality of the selections in a webpage may define the personalization settings for the webpage and all other webpages that are derived from the web page in the same vertical.

In operation a request for a webpage made by a user from a user device is received. The request for the webpage may be made by the user via user device and the request for the webpage may be sent from user device to content processor of server .

In operation content for the requested webpage is selected based on the received user selection that defines the personalization settings for the requested webpage. The selection of the content for the requested webpage includes identifying two or more content modules to be presented on the requested webpage and at least one of the content modules includes an associated content indicator. In one embodiment the content modules are identified by content processor of server . In one embodiment the content modules are identified by content processor from one or more storage systems in storage .

In one embodiment the content indicator will show the personalization setting status for the associated content module. For example if the user selection for the requested webpage is Full all of the content in the identified content modules for the requested webpage is personalized. Thus the content indicators associated with the identified content modules in the requested webpage may show Personalized. In another example if the user selection for the requested webpage is Moderate the content in at least one identified content modules may be personalized and the content in the remaining identified content modules may be editorially curated. As such the content indicator associated with the identified content module having personalized content for the requested webpage may show Personalized the content indicator associated with the identified content module having content that is editorially curated for the requested webpage may show Editor Curated or Popular if the content is chosen based on the popularity of the selected content category. In yet another example if the user selection for the requested webpage is Friends all of the content in the identified content modules for the requested webpage is personalized based on the online activities of the user s social network friends. In one embodiment the online activities of the user s social network friends may be the recommendations made by the user s social network friends in a social network maintained by social media server . Thus the content indicators associated with the identified content modules in the requested webpage may show the name of the friend or friends whose online activities are used to identify the content for the content modules. In still yet another example if the user selection for the requested webpage is Mix at least one identified content module contains content that is personalized for the user based on the online activities of the user s social network friends and the content in the remaining identified content modules may contain content that is editorially curated or personalized. Thus the content indicators associated with the personalized identified content module in the requested webpage may show Personalized or Friends if the content is personalized based on the online activities of the user s social network friend or friends the content indictor associated with the editorially curated content module may show Editor Curated or Popular if the content is selected based on the popularity of the selected content category. In still yet further example if the user selection for the requested webpage is Off all of the content in the identified content modules for the requested webpage is editorially curated. Thus the content indicators associated with the identified content modules in the requested webpage may show Editor Curated or Popular if the content is selected based on the popularity of the selected content category.

In operation the selected content for the requested webpage is forwarded to the user device for example user device . In one embodiment the selected content is forwarded to the user device by content processor of server via Internet . In one embodiment the selected content for the requested webpage for example webpage may be displayed in the display screen of user device .

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. The processor may be a component in a variety of systems. For example the processor may be part of a standard personal computer or a workstation. The processor may be one or more general processors digital signal processors application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays servers networks digital circuits analog circuits combinations thereof or other now known or later developed devices for analyzing and processing data. The processor may implement a software program such as code generated manually i.e. programmed .

The computer system may include a memory that can communicate via a bus . The memory may be a main memory a static memory or a dynamic memory. The memory may include but is not limited to computer readable storage media such as various types of volatile and non volatile storage media including but not limited to random access memory read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable read only memory flash memory magnetic tape or disk optical media and the like. In one embodiment the memory includes a cache or random access memory for the processor . In alternative embodiments the memory is separate from the processor such as a cache memory of a processor the system memory or other memory. The memory may be an external storage device or database for storing data. Examples include a hard drive compact disc CD digital video disc DVD memory card memory stick floppy disc universal serial bus USB memory device or any other device operative to store data. The memory is operable to store instructions executable by the processor . The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein may be performed by the programmed processor executing the instructions stored in the memory . The functions acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firm ware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like.

As shown the computer system may further include a display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display a cathode ray tube CRT a projector a printer or other now known or later developed display device for outputting determined information. The display may act as an interface for the user to see the functioning of the processor or specifically as an interface with the software stored in the memory or in the drive unit .

Additionally or alternatively the computer system may include an input device configured to allow a user to interact with any of the components of system . The input device may be a number pad a keyboard or a cursor control device such as a mouse or a joystick touch screen display remote control or any other device operative to interact with the computer system .

The computer system may also or alternatively include a disk or optical drive unit . The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. The instructions may reside completely or partially within the memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The memory and the processor also may include computer readable media as discussed above.

In some systems a computer readable medium includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video audio images or any other data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via a communication port or interface and or using a bus . The communication port or interface may be a part of the processor or may be a separate component. The communication port may be created in software or may be a physical connection in hardware. The communication port may be configured to connect with a network external media the display or any other components in system or combinations thereof. The connection with the network may be a physical connection such as a wired Ethernet connection or may be established wirelessly as discussed below. Likewise the additional connections with other components of the system may be physical connections or may be established wirelessly. The network may alternatively be directly connected to the bus .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium may also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein. The computer readable medium may be non transitory and may be tangible.

The computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. The computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally or alternatively the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

The computer system may be connected to one or more networks . The network may be the same as similar to and or in communication with another network that includes Internet as shown in . Any of networks may be wired or wireless. The wireless network may be a cellular telephone network an 802.11 802.16 802.20 or WiMax network. Further any of the networks may be a public network such as the Internet a private network such as an intranet or combinations thereof and may utilize a variety of networking protocols now available or later developed including but not limited to TCP IP based networking protocols. The networks may include wide area networks WAN such as the Internet local area networks LAN campus area networks metropolitan area networks a direct connection such as through a Universal Serial Bus USB port or any other networks that may allow for data communication. The networks may be configured to couple one computing device to another computing device to enable communication of data between the devices. The networks may generally be enabled to employ any form of machine readable media for communicating information from one device to another. The networks may include communication methods by which information may travel between computing devices. The networks may be divided into sub networks. The sub networks may allow access to all of the other components connected to Internet in the system or the sub networks may restrict access between the components connected to the networks. The networks may be regarded as a public or private network connection and may include for example a virtual private network or an encryption or other security mechanism employed over the public Internet or the like.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description. While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

Note that the concepts of client and server as used in this application and the industry are very loosely defined and in fact are not fixed with respect to machines or software processes executing on the machines. Typically a server is a machine or process that is providing information to another machine or process i.e. the client that requests the information. In this respect a computer or process can be acting as a client at one point in time because it is requesting information . Some computers are consistently referred to as servers because they usually act as a repository for a large amount of information that is often requested. For example a World Wide Web WWW or simply Web site is often hosted by a server computer with a large storage capacity high speed processor and Internet link having the ability to handle many high bandwidth communication lines.

A server machine will most likely not be manually operated by a human user on a continual basis but instead has software for constantly and automatically responding to information requests. On the other hand some machines such as desktop computers are typically thought of as client machines because they are primarily used to obtain information from the Internet for a user operating the machine. Depending on the specific software executing at any point in time on these machines the machine may actually be performing the role of a client or server as the need may be. For example a user s desktop computer can provide information to another desktop computer. Or a server may directly communicate with another server computer. Sometimes this is characterized as peer to peer communication. Although processes of the present invention and the hardware executing the processes may be characterized by language common to a discussion of the Internet e.g. client server peer it should be apparent that software of the present invention can execute on any type of suitable hardware including networks other than the Internet.

Although software of the present invention may be presented as a single entity such software is readily able to be executed on multiple machines. That is there may be multiple instances of a given software program a single program may be executing on different physical machines etc. Further two different programs such as a client a server program can be executing in a single machine or in different machines. A single program can be operating as a client for information transaction and as a server for a different information transaction.

A computer for purposes of embodiments of the present invention may include any processor containing device such as a mainframe computer personal computer laptop notebook microcomputer server personal data manager or personal information manager also referred to as a PIM smart cellular or other phone so called smart card set top box or any of the like. A computer program may include any suitable locally or remotely executable program or sequence of coded instructions which are to be inserted into a computer well known to those skilled in the art. Stated more specifically a computer program includes an organized list of instructions that when executed causes the computer to behave in a predetermined manner. A computer program contains a list of ingredients called variables and a list of directions called statements that tell the computer what to do with the variables. The variables may represent numeric data text audio or graphical images. If a computer is employed for synchronously presenting multiple video program ID streams such as on a display screen of the computer the computer would have suitable instructions e.g. source code for allowing a user to synchronously display multiple video program ID streams in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention. Similarly if a computer is employed for presenting other media via a suitable directly or indirectly coupled input output I O device the computer would have suitable instructions for allowing a user to input or output e.g. present program code and or data information respectively in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention.

A computer non transitory readable medium or computer non transitory readable media for purposes of embodiments of the present invention may be any medium media that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the computer program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. The computer non transitory readable medium can be by way of example only but not by limitation an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus system device propagation medium carrier wave or computer memory. The computer non transitory readable medium may have suitable instructions for synchronously presenting multiple video program ID streams such as on a display screen or for providing for input or presenting in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention could employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations can include the physical transformations of data saving of data and display of data. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Data can also be stored in the network during capture and transmission over a network. The storage can be for example at network nodes and memory associated with a server and other computing devices including portable devices.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus can be specially constructed for the required purpose or the apparatus can be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines can be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer system so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications can be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

