---

title: Methods for applying a powder metal layer to polymer articles as an antifouling coating
abstract: A method of making an antifouling article includes providing a mold having a mold cavity and a mold surface for defining an article. The method also includes applying a mold release material to the mold surface. The method further includes coating the mold surface with a plurality of metallic powder particles comprising an antifouling agent. Still further, the method includes filling the mold with a curable polymeric material. Yet further, the method includes curing the polymeric material and forming an article having a surface defined by the mold surface, the surface of the article having the plurality of metallic powder particles disposed thereon and comprising an antifouling coating.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08679583&OS=08679583&RS=08679583
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 08679583
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120829
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of prior filed U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 546 666 filed on Oct. 13 2011 the content of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under contract number 2007 0719123 000. The U.S. Government has certain right in the invention.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention relate to a method of a making an antifouling coating for polymeric articles and more particularly a method of applying a powder metal layer as an antifouling coating to a polymeric article.

Marine biofouling or fouling occurs to some degree on virtually all marine structures and equipment including various structures and equipment that employ polymeric articles. The degree of fouling depends on many factors including the marine environment in which the article is used i.e. the geographic location and water conditions including temperature turbidity etc. as well as the depth at which the article is used. Plant or soft fouling such as by algae and slimes occurs in the near surface region e.g. 50 m or less but may also occur at deeper depths while hard fouling such as by shellfish and the like can occur down to about 150 m for example.

Biofouling of various polymeric articles such those employed with various acoustic devices is particularly problematic because the mechanical and other means used to remove such fouling may also damage the surface of such articles and effect the performance of the acoustic device. Various continuous coatings of antifouling agents have been employed such as various antifouling paints but these are generally not useful when the polymeric article is flexible such as flexible articles formed from various elastomeric materials. The use of various coatings employing metallic particles have been suggested but these coatings and the methods employed to make these articles may not be suitable for use on flexible polymeric articles particularly those having complex surface shapes and more particularly those used with acoustic devices that must be able to transmit and or receive acoustic signals through the coating.

Therefore methods of making antifouling coatings for use on polymeric articles and the articles themselves particularly flexible articles having complex surface shapes and more particularly those used with acoustic devices that must be able to transmit and or receive acoustic signals through the coating are very desirable.

In an exemplary embodiment a method of making an antifouling article is disclosed. The method includes providing a mold having a mold cavity and a mold surface for defining an article. The method also includes applying a mold release material to the mold surface. The method further includes coating the mold surface with a plurality of metallic powder particles comprising an antifouling agent. Still further the method includes filling the mold with a curable polymeric material. Yet further the method includes curing the polymeric material and forming an article having a surface defined by the mold surface the surface of the article having the plurality of metallic powder particles disposed thereon and comprising an antifouling coating.

In another exemplary embodiment a method of making an antifouling article is disclosed. The method includes providing a mold having a mold cavity and a mold surface for defining an article. The method also includes forming a mixture of a first curable polymeric material and a plurality of metallic powder particles comprising an antifouling agent. The method further includes applying a layer of the mixture to the mold surface. The method further includes filling the mold cavity with a second curable polymeric material prior to curing the first curable polymer. Still further the method includes curing the first polymeric material and the second polymeric material to form an article having a surface defined by the mold surface the surface of the article having the plurality of powder particles disposed thereon.

Referring to the Figures and particularly to in exemplary embodiments methods for applying a powder metal layer to polymer articles as an antifouling coating are disclosed. The methods of making antifouling coatings for use on polymeric articles and the polymer articles themselves are disclosed. The methods are particularly suited for making antifouling coatings on flexible polymeric articles that are configured to resiliently undergo severe deformation or that have complex surface shapes or both and more particularly those used with acoustic devices that must be able to transmit and or receive acoustic signals through the antifouling coating without any substantial loss of the acoustic signals. The methods are also particularly suited for making antifouling coatings on polymeric articles having complex shapes where it is not desirable to apply known antifouling paints due to operational constraints including outgassing of volatile organic compounds VOCs or other hazardous materials or a degree of deformation that would cause paints to delaminate or otherwise flake off the surface of the article. In contrast with antifouling paints the methods described herein provide articles with the antifouling agent metallic particles exposed at the surface that is exposed to the marine environment rather than embedded within the paint thereby increasing their antifouling potential over articles coated with antifouling paints. Articles having antifouling coatings made according to the methods described herein have coatings that are very durable. Those that are formed from low durometer elastomeric materials may for example be bent rolled folded stretched and otherwise severely deformed without damaging the antifouling coating layer. The antifouling coating layers made by the methods described herein are very advantageous in that they are particularly well suited for use with various acoustic articles used for transmitting and receiving various acoustic signals particularly those used in a marine environment and more particularly various hydrophones acoustic transducers e.g. those used in fish finders and depth finders sonar domes or acoustic windows used in various marine articles. The antifouling coating layers made by the methods described herein are also very advantageous in that they are particularly well suited for use with various control surfaces particularly flexible control surfaces which require antifouling surfaces. The methods may also be used to make articles having antifouling coating layers that are very thin as well as very durable including antifouling coating layers having a thickness of about one to about five times the average particle size and more particularly about two to about four times the average particle size.

Referring to a method of making an antifouling article is disclosed. The method may briefly be described as applying a mold release compound to a mold surface in a mold cavity followed by apply a metallic powder having a small particle size e.g. about 250 mesh to about 400 mesh to the mold surface that has the mold release compound whereupon the metallic powder coats this mold surface followed by filling the mold cavity with a polymeric material preferably a flexible polymeric material such as an elastomer and curing the polymeric material to form an polymeric article that has the metallic powder captured on a corresponding surface of the article. Without limiting the foregoing applying the metallic powder to the mold surface having the mold release compound is somewhat analogous to greasing and flouring a pan as a mold prior to baking dough in the pan whereupon the flour is often transferred from the pan surface to the baked article.

Referring again to the method includes providing a mold having a mold cavity and a mold surface for defining the article . The method also includes applying a mold release material to the mold surface . The method further includes coating the mold surface with a plurality of metallic powder particles comprising an antifouling agent . Still further the method includes filling the mold with a curable polymeric material . Yet further the method includes curing the polymeric material to form an article having a surface defined by the mold surface the surface of the article having the plurality of metallic powder particles disposed thereon and comprising an antifouling coating that includes the metallic powder particles disposed on or embedded within the polymeric material .

Providing a mold having a mold cavity and a mold surface for defining an article may include any suitable mold . Mold may be formed from any suitable mold material which may include various polymers ceramics metals or inorganic materials or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the mold material may include aluminum or an aluminum alloy and the mold and mold cavity may be rigidly defined. In another embodiment the mold material may include a silicone and the mold and mold cavity may be resiliently and flexibly defined. The mold may have any suitable shape and size and includes a mold cavity and a mold surface that together define the shape and size of the articles formed therein. The mold may be used to define any suitable article including various marine acoustic articles and control surfaces as described herein.

Applying a mold release material to the mold surface may be performed in any suitable manner and may utilize any suitable mold release compound material or agent. The mold release material will generally be selected to obtain a slip effect sufficient to release the molded article from the mold . The selection of the mold release material will generally depend on the mold material selected the shape of the article and the curable polymeric material selected. In one embodiment where the mold material includes a polymeric material such as a silicone e.g. a silicone rubber mold material such as Silicones Inc. P 44 platinum cured silicone the curable polymeric material includes a urethane and a suitable mold release material such as UNIVERSAL MOLD RELEASE made by Smooth On Inc.

Coating the mold surface with a plurality of metallic powder particles comprising an antifouling agent may be performed by any suitable coating method. In one embodiment coating may include inserting a plurality of powder particles into the mold and moving the mold or the metallic particles or a combination thereof to form a coating of the plurality powder particles on the mold surface . Inserting the plurality of powder particles may be accomplished in any suitable manner including pouring the powder particles into the mold cavity . Moving the mold or the particles or a combination thereof may be performed in any suitable manner including rotating the mold or shaking the mold or a combination thereof. In another embodiment coating includes spraying the plurality of powder particles onto the mold surface and mold release material .

Filling the mold with a curable polymeric material may be performed in any suitable manner and utilize any suitable curable polymeric material. In one embodiment filling the mold with the polymeric material includes resin casting or injecting a thermoset polymeric material or a thermoplastic polymeric material or a combination thereof into the mold . The use of the term curable polymeric material herein is intended to broadly encompass thermoset polymeric materials as well as thermoplastic polymeric materials. Curable thermoset materials may include various two part or more constituent part resins systems. Curable thermoplastic resins include those that are heated to reduce their viscosity and cure upon cooling below a predetermined temperature such as a glass transition temperature or which for example utilize a cross linking agent to affect cross linking of the polymeric material. Resin casting may include gravity casting where the resin is poured into and fills the mold cavity by gravity and may be done in the ambient atmosphere or under a controlled atmosphere. The casting may also be done in a vacuum chamber when using open molds to extract gas bubbles that may occur during mixing of the resin e.g. two part resins or in a pressure pot to reduce their size to the point where they aren t visible. Pressure and or centrifugal force may also be used to help push the curable liquid resin into the mold cavity . The mold may also be vibrated to expel gas bubbles and facilitate filling of the mold cavity . In thermoplastic injection molding the curable polymeric material is fed into a heated barrel mixed and forced into the mold cavity where it cools and hardens cures to the configuration of the mold cavity . For thermoplastic materials pelletized raw material may be fed through a hopper into a heated barrel with a reciprocating screw. Upon entrance to the barrel the thermal energy increases and the viscosity is reduced which enables the ability to induce flow with the available driving force of the injection unit. The screw delivers the raw material forward mixes and homogenizes the thermal and viscous distributions of the polymer and pushes the curable polymeric material into the mold cavity . In thermoset injection molding typically two different chemical components are injected into the barrel where they are injected into the mold cavity . These components immediately begin irreversible chemical reactions which eventually crosslinks cures the material into a single connected network of molecules. As the chemical reaction occurs the two fluid components cure and permanently transform into a viscoelastic solid.

Curing the polymeric material and forming an article having a surface defined by the mold surface the surface of the article having the plurality of metallic powder particles disposed thereon and comprising an antifouling coating may be performed in any suitable manner using any suitable polymer curing mechanism including those described above. In one embodiment forming an article from the polymeric material having a surface defined by the mold surface comprises polymerizing a thermoset polymer or a thermoplastic polymer to form the article and define the surface.

The metallic material used to form metallic powder particles may include any metallic material that acts as an antifouling agent. In one embodiment the metallic material includes lead copper cobalt zinc nickel zirconium molybdenum tin iron or manganese or a combination thereof. Of the metallic materials copper is particularly useful as an antifouling agent including pure copper which may be defined as metallic materials having greater than 95 by weight of copper or a copper alloy including various brass copper zinc bronze copper tin or copper nickel alloys. The metallic material is in the form of a plurality of metallic powder particles . The metallic powder particles may have any suitable particle shape and size that will adhere to the mold release material and the mold surface . In one embodiment the metallic powder particles have an average size of about 250 mesh or less and more particularly about 250 to about 400 mesh U.S. Standard Sieve Size . The method and metallic powder particles be used to make articles having antifouling coating layers that are very thin as well as very durable including antifouling coating layers having a thickness of about one to about five times the average particle size and more particularly about two to about four times the average particle size. In one embodiment this may include antifouling coating layers having a thickness of about 0.0015 inches to about 0.011 inches and more particularly 0.0017 inches to about 0.011 and even more particularly about 0.0030 inches to about 0.009 inches. The metallic powder particles may have any suitable particle shape including substantially spherical particles as well as other regular or irregular regular particle shapes or combinations thereof including those shapes characteristic of crushed particles. The thickness will depend in part on the amount particularly the thickness of the mold release material applied to the surface of the mold as the amount of material will define the amount of metallic material and number of metallic powder particles that may be loaded onto the surface of the mold .

The thin durable antifouling coating layers having the thicknesses described may be used in conjunction with any suitable article that may be subject to fouling. This includes a wide variety of marine articles but may also include a wide variety of non marine articles that are exposed continuously or periodically to moisture and subject to biofouling including the growth of algae mold and mildew. The thin durable antifouling coating layers are particularly suited for use with marine acoustic articles for transmitting or receiving an acoustic signal. These include for example acoustic articles comprising hydrophones marine acoustic transducers sonar domes or acoustic windows. The antifouling coating layers particularly those having the thicknesses described herein result in substantially no loss of the acoustic signal being transmitted or received through these marine articles .

The polymeric material may include any suitable polymeric material that is configured to provide a suitable antifouling article including various antifouling acoustic articles having a surface comprising an antifouling coating layer having a plurality of metallic powder particles disposed thereon as described herein. In one embodiment the polymeric material comprises an elastomer. Any suitable elastomer may be used including thermoset elastomers or thermoplastic elastomers or a combination thereof. Thermoset elastomers may include those comprising an ester epoxy phenolic imide formaldehyde silicone or urethane polymer or a combination thereof. Thermoplastic elastomers may include for example various styrenic block copolymers polyolefin blends elastomeric alloys thermoplastic polyurethanes thermoplastic copolyesters or thermoplastic polyamides or a combination thereof.

Referring to and in another embodiment a method of making an antifouling article is disclosed that generally includes mixing a curable polymeric material and a plurality of metallic powder particles to form a mixture that can be applied to a mold surface followed by filling the remainder of the mold cavity with the same or alternately a different curable polymeric material followed by curing the polymeric material to form an article with an antifouling coating layer at the surface of the article. The method includes providing a mold having a mold cavity and a mold surface for defining an article . The method also includes forming a mixture of a first curable polymeric material and a plurality of metallic powder particles comprising an antifouling agent . The method further includes applying a layer of the mixture to the mold surface . Still further the method filling the mold cavity with a second curable polymeric material prior to curing the first curable polymeric material . Yet further the method includes curing the first polymeric material and the second polymeric material to form an article having a surface defined by the mold surface the surface of the article having the plurality of powder particles disposed thereon. The method may also optionally include removing the polymeric material at the surface to increase the surface area of the plurality of powder particles at the surface of the article such as by abrading the surface to remove the polymeric material .

Providing a mold having a mold cavity and a mold surface for defining an article may be accomplished using any suitable mold . The mold may be formed from any suitable mold material which may include various polymers ceramics metals or inorganic materials or a combination thereof. The mold may have any suitable shape and size and includes a mold cavity and a mold surface that together define the shape and size of the articles formed therein. The mold may be used to define any suitable article including various marine acoustic articles and control surfaces as described herein.

Forming a mixture of a first curable polymeric material and a plurality of metallic powder particles comprising an antifouling agent may be performed by employing any suitable mixing apparatus and mixing method. In one example this may include pouring the metallic powder particles and resin into a conventional mixing or stirring apparatus.

Applying a layer of the mixture to the mold surface may be performed using any suitable application apparatus and method. In one example applying may be performed by various painting apparatus and methods including brushing rolling pads or spraying apparatus and methods.

Filling the mold cavity with a second curable polymeric material prior to curing the first curable polymeric material may be performed in any suitable manner and using any suitable filling apparatus and method. The first curable polymeric material and second polymeric material may be same material or different materials and may comprise any of the curable polymeric materials described herein. In one example the first curable polymeric material and the second polymeric material comprise an elastomer including a thermoset elastomer such as an ester epoxy phenolic imide formaldehyde silicone or urethane polymer or a combination thereof. In one embodiment filling may comprise casting or injecting a thermoset polymer or a thermoplastic polymer or a combination thereof into the mold .

Curing the first polymeric material and the second polymeric material to form an article having a surface defined by the mold surface the surface of the article having the plurality of powder particles disposed thereon may be performed in any suitable manner using any suitable polymer curing mechanism including those described herein. In one embodiment forming an article from the polymeric material having a surface defined by the mold surface comprises polymerizing a thermoset polymer or a thermoplastic polymer to form the article and define the surface.

The method may also optionally include removing the polymeric material at the surface to increase the surface area of the plurality of powder particles at the surface of the article . The polymeric material may be removed in any suitable manner including abrasion or grinding to expose the plurality of powder particles and increase their surface area at the surface .

The method may also be used to make any of the articles described herein including acoustic articles for transmitting or receiving an acoustic signal where the antifouling coating results in substantially no loss of the acoustic signal.

The method generally provides more exposed surface area of the metallic particles in the as molded condition than method and hence tends to provide a more effective antifouling coating in the as molded condition. However method generally tends to have the metallic particles embedded in the polymeric material to a greater degree and hence may provide a more durable antifouling coating in the as molded condition. Articles formed by method also may have their effectiveness as an antifouling coating enhanced by abrasion of the antifouling coating surface to remove the polymeric material expose the metallic particles and enhance their effectiveness as an antifouling agent.

While exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described herein it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the sprit or scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the present application as defined by the claims appended hereto.

