---

title: Providing alerts, vouchers, or coupons once a plurality of geo-fences have been breached a number of times
abstract: The disclosure is directed to providing a notification based on breaching a plurality of geo-fence perimeters. An embodiment detects a breach related to the plurality of geo-fence perimeters, the breach corresponding to a breach of one of the plurality of geo-fence perimeters, records the breach as one of a plurality of breaches, determines whether the plurality of breaches meet one or more conditions, and if the plurality of breaches meet the condition, issues a notification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589435&OS=09589435&RS=09589435
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09589435
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121214
---
The disclosure is directed to providing alerts vouchers or coupons once a plurality of geo fences has been breached a number of times.

A geo fence is a virtual perimeter surrounding a real world geographic area. A location aware device i.e. a device that can determine its position can be loaded with a geo fence. The device compares its position to the coordinates of the stored geo fence. If the device enters or exits i.e. breaches the geo fence the device can display a notification to the user and or send a notice to a remote computer.

In some situations the party that setup the geo fence may wish to track the number of times a user enters or exits the geo fence whether or not the user re enters the geo fence within a certain period of time the order that the user proceeds from one geo fence to another and the like. For example a chain of restaurants or shops may wish to reward customers who visit a given number of different locations over a period of time by sending them a discount coupon or some type of promotional voucher. Alternatively the proprietor of a single shop or restaurant may wish to reward repeat customers with such offers.

As another example a parking garage or set of parking spaces such as the street parking zones maintained by a municipality may have a restriction that vehicles may not revisit the same location within a specified time or that the parking spaces may not be used more than a certain number of times within a given period of time. The operators of such a parking facility may wish to alert customers that they have exceeded their allowed number of visits.

Accordingly the various embodiments track among other things the number of times a user enters or exits one or more geo fences the order in which the user enters and exits related geo fences the time the user spends inside or outside one or more geo fences and the like.

The disclosure is directed to providing a notification based on breaching a plurality of geo fence perimeters. An embodiment detects a breach related to the plurality of geo fence perimeters the breach corresponding to a breach of one of the plurality of geo fence perimeters records the breach as one of a plurality of breaches determines whether the plurality of breaches meet one or more conditions and if the plurality of breaches meet the condition issues a notification.

Aspects of the various embodiments are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments are illustrated. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the various embodiments will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the various embodiments.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments or embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the various embodiments. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the various embodiments may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A geo fence is a virtual perimeter surrounding or defining a real world geographic area. A location aware device i.e. a device that can determine its position can be loaded with a geo fence. The device then compares its position to the coordinates of the stored geo fence. If the device enters or exits i.e. breaches the geo fence the device can display a notification to the user and or send a notice to a remote computer.

In some situations the party that setup the geo fence may wish to track the number of times a user enters or exits the geo fence whether or not the user re enters the geo fence within a certain period of time the order that the user proceeds from one geo fence to another etc. For example a chain of restaurants or shops may wish to reward customers who visit a given number of different locations over a period of time by sending them a discount coupon or some type of promotional voucher. Alternatively the proprietor of a single shop or restaurant may wish to reward repeat customers with such offers.

As another example a parking garage or set of parking spaces such as the street parking zones maintained by a municipality may have a restriction that vehicles may not revisit the same location within a specified time or that the parking spaces may not be used more than a certain number of times within a given period of time. The operators of such a parking facility may wish to alert customers that they have exceeded their allowed number of visits.

Accordingly the various embodiments track among other things the number of times a user enters or exits one or more geo fences the order in which the user enters and exits related geo fences the time the user spends inside or outside one or more geo fences and the like.

A geo fence administrator can define a set of related geo fences or a single geo fence with multiple sub areas. The set of geo fences may include all the restaurants in a given chain all the retail establishments in a given shopping center the parking spaces operated by a municipality and the like. The geo fence for a single location can be stored as an independent geo fence and linked to the related geo fences or it can be stored as a sub area of a geo fence that encompasses all of the related locations. This disclosure uses the term geo fence to refer to the geo fence for a single location whether the geo fence is stored as an independent geo fence or a sub area of a larger geo fence.

Depending on the level of precision of the positioning system the geo fence may be a single point and an associated radius instead of a set of coordinates defining a geographic perimeter. For example if a geo fence encompasses a single parking space the geo fence data for that parking space may simply be the coordinates of the center of the parking space and a radius of for example four feet from those center coordinates rather than the coordinates of each corner of the parking space.

The administrator can define a set of rules related to breaching a geo fence. The rules can define what action if any should be taken when a user enters a geo fence exits a geo fence visits a certain number of geo fences visits certain geo fences in a certain order and the like. Various examples of possible rule implementations are illustrated in .

A state machine and or set of counters can track geo fence breaches. Each time a user breaches a geo fence the state machine changes state and if specified in the rules starts or stops one or more timers. Alternatively each time a user breaches a geo fence one or more counters are incremented or decremented and if specified in the rules one or more timers are started or stopped. When a timer expires the state machine changes state or the relevant counter is incremented or decremented as defined in the rules. When the state machine reaches a particular state or a given counter reaches or exceeds a set threshold an action is taken as defined in the rules.

The action can be sending the user an alert such as a coupon or voucher or some other incentive a warning a pointer to additional information and the like. Alternatively the action can be recording statistics related to the user such as the user s number of breaches locations of the breaches time between breaches and the like. The action can also be sending an alert to a third party. The alert may notify the third party of the breach and or the user s statistics. The alert may be in the form of a short message service SMS message multimedia messaging service MMS message or email. The pointer to additional information can be a uniform resource locator URL an email address a web page and the like.

An application configured to perform the functionality described herein can be installed on a location aware user device. For example the user device can download store and access the geo fence data rules state machines or counters and or alerts to perform the functionality described herein. The user device can track geo fence breaches and issue alerts based on the stored rules. The alerts may be stored on the user device and presented to the user and or transmitted to a third party server according to the rules.

The user device can also communicate with a server to perform the functionality described herein. For example the user device can communicate its position to a server which can determine if a breach has occurred and issue alerts based on the rules. Alternatively the user device can track breaches and communicate them to the server which can issue alerts based on the rules. In yet another example the user device can track the breaches determine whether or not an alert should be issued and notify the server to issue the alert.

These and other aspects of the various embodiments will be described in more detail with respect to the following figures.

The front of apparatus may include a visual display such as a liquid crystal display LCD programming power buttons and a light emitting diode LED and or a speaker . Visual display may be used to navigate various functions of apparatus . LED may provide a visual indication of various statuses of apparatus such as ON OFF battery status etc. The side of apparatus may include a universal serial bus USB port and an external memory card slot such as for secure digital SD cards. USB port may be used to charge a rechargeable battery housed within the body of apparatus . External memory card slot may be used to receive an SD card loaded with geo fence coordinates and or other data such as user options dynamic gate criteria etc. Speaker may be used to provide audible warnings and or feedback to a wearer and or user. The apparatus may also include a connector for attaching apparatus to an asset.

In an embodiment visual display may be a touch screen display in which case there would be no need for multiple programming buttons and . Rather only a power button would be needed. In another embodiment apparatus may be connected to a computer such as the remote server via a USB cable connected to USB port and programmed through the computer s user interface. As such there would be no need for visual display or programming buttons and other than a power button.

The wireless communication between the apparatus and the remote server can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM the global system for mobile communications GSM 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the various embodiments and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of the embodiments.

Using an external memory card may allow for geo fence perimeters to be quickly transferred from one apparatus to another. In an embodiment however apparatus may include sufficient internal storage for storing geo fence information such that there would be no need for an external memory card. In an embodiment apparatus may receive geo fence information via an internal or external antenna not shown capable of receiving wireless signals such as cellular signals wireless local area network WLAN signals such as Wi Fi radio frequency identification RFID signals and the like.

While the internal components of apparatus can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level configuration is shown as hardware platform . The platform can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device which is coupled to one or more transceivers and memory . In one embodiment the transceiver s can receive coordinates representing the perimeter s of a geo fence and send it to the ASIC Processor . For example the transceiver s can receive the coordinates via Wi Fi RFID LTE CDMA WCDMA GSM etc. In another embodiment the memory can have the coordinates loaded on it. For example the memory can be a removable media which would allow a user to set the coordinates on the removable media on a different device and then plug it into the apparatus for use. The removable media may include but is not limited to an optical disk SD card or memory stick. In another embodiment the memory can be internal memory which can be programmed with the coordinates via a display interface or USB port . The memory can be comprised of read only memory ROM random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards SD Card or any memory common to computer platforms.

In one embodiment the ASIC Processor determines a proximate location of the mobile device using a hybrid combination of a satellite based proximate location and an auxiliary local station based proximate station. For example the ASIC Processor can receive location information and or position information from one or more transceivers . For example the transceiver can receive location information from base stations femto cells pico cells RFID etc. Additionally it can receive positioning information from satellite based systems SPS such as GPS and GLONASS. Each transceiver can also receive RF signals that can be used in positioning from local stations. For example a transceiver can receive RF signals from Wi Fi femto cells pico cells RFID etc.

In one embodiment based on a comparison of the proximate location of the mobile device to the coordinates representing the perimeter of the geo fence the ASIC Processor can provide feedback. For example if the ASIC Processor is outside the geo fence the ASIC Processor can trigger feedback which may include sending a notification to another device sending feedback to another device or providing feedback to a wearer of the apparatus . The feedback may include but is not limited to sending the wearer a shock playing a warning sound sending a notification to a third party sending a notification to the wearer of the device etc. The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted over a wireless network USB cable SD card etc. The apparatus can also be operably coupled to external devices such as display buttons and and LED among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment can include an apparatus with the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC Processor memory and transceiver s may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the apparatus in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the radio access network RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a GPS receiver or other receiver for satellite navigation and transceiver operably coupled to an ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

The UEs A and B can obtain their geographic position via various satellite based positioning systems known in the art such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS SPS GLONASS etc. The UEs A and B may also augment the satellite based positioning with terrestrial radio frequency RF signals such as wide area augmentation system WAAS differential global positioning system DGPS etc. as is known in the art. The UEs A and B may also use an inertial navigation system INS to determine or augment its position. In this disclosure the terms geographic location and geographic position are used interchangeably.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The UEs A and or B can communicate wirelessly based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs A and B from the radio access network RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. apparatus UE A or B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. a radio frequency RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a universal serial bus USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the types of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM EEPROM registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user. The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user. The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

A location aware vehicle follows a path from geo fence A to geo fence B . Vehicle is location aware either because the driver has a location aware user device running an application according to an embodiment such as UE A or UE B or the vehicle has a location aware device such as apparatus installed or present. If the location aware device is not installed in the vehicle it may for example be given to the driver when the vehicle enters the parking garage.

In the example of entering another parking space in the same parking garage or municipal parking lot within a certain period of time triggers an alert. At the vehicle enters geo fence A at time t. The breach is recorded either at the location aware device a server or both. At the vehicle exits geo fence A at time t and the breach is recorded. At the vehicle enters geo fence B at time t and the breach is recorded.

In the example of the amount of time between time t and time t is less than the threshold period of time that must elapse before the same vehicle can park in a different space within the same lot. Accordingly the breach at triggers an alert at . The alert may be for the driver of vehicle the operator of the parking lot or both. The location aware device may display the alert to the driver. The alert may be in the form of a warning that the vehicle is not permitted to park within geo fence B at that time. The alert may also indicate the amount of time remaining before the vehicle can park within geo fence B .

A user with a location aware device follows path from geo fence A to geo fence B to geo fence C . At device enters geo fence A and the breach is recorded. At device enters geo fence B and the breach is recorded. At device enters geo fence C and the breach is recorded.

In the example of after a user visits three related geo fences the user is issued a coupon or voucher giving the user a discount on a product or service at any of the locations encompassed by geo fences A B C and D . Accordingly the breach at triggers this event and at the coupon or voucher is issued.

The embodiment of is illustrated as being implemented as a state machine but it may alternatively be implemented as a counter. The position of the user can be tracked with a location aware device that the user carries such as UE A or UE B.

The flow begins at . At the user enters geo fence A. At the breach causes the state associated with the user to transition to state . Alternatively the breach would cause a corresponding counter to be incremented. The user s location aware device may track the user s state for example or a server may track the user s state based on breaches detected by the user s device. Alternatively the user device may simply report its position to the server and the server may track the user s breaches and state. At the user exits geo fence K causing the flow to return to and start over. If using a counter the counter would be reset to 0.

If however the user enters geo fence B at then the user s state is updated to state at . Alternatively the counter would be incremented. If the user exits geo fence K at this point the flow returns to and starts over. If using a counter the counter would be reset to 0. If however the user enters geo fence C at then the user s state is updated to state at . Alternatively the counter would be incremented. Entering state at or the counter reaching a count of 3 triggers an event. In the example of that event is issuing a voucher or other coupon to the user. The user device may issue the alert if the voucher has been stored on the user device or the server may issue the alert by sending the voucher to the user device.

The flow begins at . At the user enters one of geo fences A B or C. The breach causes a timer to start at . The timer may run on the user s location aware device or on a server. The server may receive the user device s position determine whether or not there has been a breach and start the timer based on the determined breach. Alternatively the server may receive notice of a breach from the user device and start a timer in response. If at the timer exceeds the time limit then at an alert is issued. If geo fences A B and C are municipal parking zones the time limit may be for example one hour.

If however the user exits the geo fence A B or C at then at a new timer is started in the same way as the first. If at the timer exceeds the time limit then the flow returns to and starts over. If however the user enters one of geo fences A B or C before the timer expires then at an alert is issued. The alert may be a warning to the user that they are not permitted to enter geo fences A B and C within the time limit of having left one of geo fences A B or C. An alert may also be sent to the municipality informing it of the violation.

The embodiment of is illustrated as being implemented as a state machine but it may alternatively be implemented as a counter. The flow begins at . At the user enters one of geo fences A B or C. At the breach causes the state associated with the user to transition to state . At the user enters one of geo fences X Y or Z causing the flow to return to and start over.

If however at the user enters any of geo fences A B or C the breach causes the user s state to transition to state at . If the user enters one of geo fences X Y or Z at this point the flow to returns to and starts over. If however the user again enters any of geo fences A B or C then at the user s state transitions to state . Entering state at triggers an event. In the example of that event is issuing a voucher or other coupon to the user for visiting any of geo fences A B or C at least three times without visiting any of geo fences X Y and Z.

The flow begins at . If the user breaches geo fence A indicating that the user is riding the ride within geo fence A the flow proceeds to . The user may then breach geo fence B at or geo fence C at . If the user breaches geo fence A again it is not counted towards the user breaching geo fences A B and C as in this example it does not matter how many times the user breaches the same geo fence. At after breaching geo fence B the user must breach geo fence C at to advance to and trigger the issuance of the voucher. At after breaching geo fence A the user must breach geo fence B at to advance to .

If after the user breaches geo fence B the flow proceeds to . The user may then breach geo fence C at or geo fence A at . At after breaching geo fence C the user must breach geo fence A at to advance to and trigger the issuance of the voucher. At after breaching geo fence A the user must breach geo fence C at to advance to .

If after the user breaches geo fence C the flow proceeds to . The user may then breach geo fence B at or geo fence A at . At after breaching geo fence B the user must breach geo fence A at to advance to and trigger the issuance of the voucher. At after breaching geo fence A the user must breach geo fence B at to advance to .

Once the user breaches geo fences A B and C in any order then at a voucher is issued for geo fence D. Once the user breaches geo fence D at the voucher is invalidated and the flow returns to .

The flow begins at . At the user breaches geo fence A. Alternatively if the user skips geo fence A and breaches either geo fence B or C at then at the user is disqualified. After breaching geo fence A the user can breach geo fence B at . If however the user breaches geo fence C at then at the user is disqualified. After breaching geo fence B the user can breach geo fence C at or geo fence A at . If the user breaches geo fence A at then at the user is disqualified. After breaching geo fence C an event is triggered at . The event may be for example logging the fact that the user visited each geo fence in turn. It may also include as in the case of a race the time it took the user to visit each geo fence in turn.

While have been illustrated in terms of a single user device the disclosure is not so limited. Rather the rules can specify that a plurality of related devices must breach certain geo fences under certain conditions in order to trigger an alert. For example rather than a single user device breaching the plurality of geo fences as illustrated in a group of related devices such as those belonging to a group of friends or family members may have to breach the plurality of geo fences in the specified manner. It may be that each device must breach the plurality of geo fences as specified or the breaches in aggregate must satisfy the specified conditions.

At the location aware device or server receives data defining a plurality of related geo fences. If flow is being performed by a server the server can receive the geo fence data from an administrator. If flow is being performed by a location aware device the device can download the geo fence data from a server.

At the location aware device or server receives rules related to the plurality of geo fences. Various rule scenarios are illustrated in . The rules specify one or more conditions that use the value of one or more counters or state machines and or one or more timers to determine whether or not to issue an alert. The one or more counters or state machines and or one or more timers track one or more devices geo fence breaches. Similar to if flow is being performed by a server the server can receive the rules from an administrator. If flow is being performed by a location aware device the device can download the rules from a server.

At the location aware device or server detects a breach related to the plurality of geo fences. The breach may be an entrance or exit breach. If defined in the rules the location aware device or server can also start or stop a timer. If flow is being performed by a server the server can detect the breach based on position information received from the location aware device. Alternatively the server can detect the breach by receiving notice of the breach from the location aware device. If flow is being performed by the location aware device the device can detect the breach by comparing its position to the coordinates of the geo fence.

At the location aware device or server records the breach as one of a plurality of breaches. Recording the breach as one or a plurality of breaches can include incrementing or decrementing a counter or changing a state of a state machine associated with the location aware device. The location aware device or server increments or decrements the counter or changes the state of the state machine based on the received rules. That is the rules define whether or not the counter should be incremented or decremented or the state machine changed based on the type of breach. If defined in the rules the location aware device or server can also start or stop a timer. If flow is being performed by a server the server can record the breach after detecting the breach or receiving notice of the breach from the location aware device. If flow is being performed by the location aware device the device can record the breach.

At the location aware device or server determines whether or not the plurality of breaches i.e. the value of the counter or the state of the state machine meets one or more conditions. The one or more conditions are defined by the rules and can include but are not limited to any of the scenarios illustrated in . The one or more conditions can be any conditions that use the value of one or more counters or state machines and or one or more timers to track one or more devices geo fence breaches and to determine whether or not to issue an alert.

If the plurality of breaches do not meet the one or more conditions flow returns to to detect another breach. If the plurality of breaches do meet the condition however then at the location aware device or server issues a notification. The notification may be a warning an alert a coupon a voucher a pointer to additional information or the like. If flow is being performed by a server the server can send the notification to the location aware device the administrator or a third party defined in the rules. If flow is being performed by a location aware device the device can display the notification to the user send the notification to the server or send the notification to a third party defined in the rules.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a DSP an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM flash memory ROM EPROM EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

