---

title: Appliance with thermostatic controls
abstract: An appliance comprises a burner and a compressor for supplying pressurized air to the burner in order to create a low-pressure area for siphoning fuel to the burner. A flame sensor senses for the presence or absence of a flame in the burner and a temperature sensor senses an actual temperature of the appliance. There is a controller in communication with the temperature sensor. The controller shuts off the compressor and overrides the flame sensor such that the appliance acts as if a flame is present when the temperature sensor senses that the actual temperature of the appliance is greater than a maximum threshold temperature. The controller starts up the compressor overriding the flame sensor such that the appliance acts as if a flame is absent when the temperature sensor senses that the actual temperature of appliance is less than a minimum threshold temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08931707&OS=08931707&RS=08931707
owner: Marine Canada Acquisition Inc.
number: 08931707
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120326
---
This is continuation in part of application Ser. No. 12 368 941 which was filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Feb. 10 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 141 788 which is based on provisional application No. 61 027 748 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Feb. 11 2008 the complete disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference and priority to which are claimed.

This invention relates to thermostatic controls and in particular to thermostatic controls an appliance such as a food preparation or a sanitation appliance.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 450 801 assigned to Teleflex Canada Limited Partnership discloses a much improved portable liquid fuel stove as compared with earlier equipment of this nature. The stove is utilized for various purposes including cooking during military field operations. It is used in appliances such as range ovens steam tables tray ration heaters field sanitation equipment and stock pot heating racks. These appliances perform functions like roasting grilling broiling frying heating water and other liquids and baking. In military field operations the stove is often required to operate under difficult conditions and therefore must be reliable in operation and capable of performing at a high level in order to meet the demands of the users.

The above described stove comprises a burner unit which combines a series of different functions including regulating fuel flow from low to high infinitely relative to the position of a control knob. The output of the burner unit may be manually and intermittently adjusted through rotation of the control knob to maintain a desired temperature. This may be labour intensive and inconvenient. Accordingly there is a need for an improved means of controlling the output of the burner unit and temperature of the stove.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved means for controlling the temperature of an appliance for example a food preparation appliance or sanitation appliance.

There is provided an appliance comprising a burner and a compressor for supplying pressurized air to the burner in order to create a low pressure area for siphoning fuel to the burner. A flame sensor senses for the presence or absence of a flame in the burner and a temperature sensor senses an actual temperature of the appliance. There is a controller in communication with the temperature sensor. The controller shuts off the compressor and overrides the flame sensor such that the appliance acts as if a flame is present when the temperature sensor senses that the actual temperature of the appliance is greater than a maximum threshold temperature. The controller starts up the compressor overriding the flame sensor such that the appliance acts as if a flame is absent when the temperature sensor senses that the actual temperature of appliance is less than a minimum threshold temperature. There is a control panel in communication with the controller. The control panel has an input mechanism for inputting a desired set temperature point into the controller and a display for displaying the actual temperature of the appliance and the set temperature point. The set temperature point is greater than the minimum threshold temperature and the set temperature point is less than the maximum threshold temperature.

The input mechanism may include two input keys which respectively allow for upward and downward adjustment of the set temperature point. The appliance may further include a temperature probe connection receptacle on the control panel and or an integral temperature probe connection harness with a temperature probe connector. The temperature sensor may be a quick connect temperature probe. The appliance may be a food preparation or a sanitation appliance.

Referring to the drawings and first to this shows a stove and a thermostatic control device . The stove is similar to the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 450 801 to Wilnecheko et al. the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. The stove provides heat for a tray ration heater . In this example the stove and the tray ration heater together are considered to be a single appliance . However in other examples the stove itself may be considered an appliance.

As best shown in the stove comprises a burner unit which includes an air aspiration infrared burner similar to the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 527 180 to Robinson et al. the complete disclosure of which is also incorporated herein by reference. The burner utilizes a two stage combustion process which re circulates combustion gases to achieve complete fuel vaporization. By re circulating the combustion products and re burning the gases within a burner head the two stage process burns virtually all of the hydrocarbons approaching complete combustion. The benefits of a complete combustion are numerous including maximum efficiency and heat transfer little to no smoke and very low carbon monoxide emissions. When multiple stove units are used in an enclosed kitchen near complete combustion is necessary to ensure the health and safety of cooking staff. The infrared burner technology helps preserve clean breathable kitchen air.

The burner is supplied with fuel by fuel delivery assembly which is shown in greater detail in . The fuel delivery assembly comprises a fuel block and an air atomizing type nozzle . The purpose of the nozzle is to transform liquid fuel into a finely atomized spray with increased surface area to promote the mixing of air and fuel and facilitate evaporation. In this example the nozzle is a twin fluid air assist type nozzle also known as a siphon type air atomizing nozzle in which the introduction of high velocity air into a slow moving fuel causes the fuel to be disintegrated by mechanical energy from the air. Referring back to a compressor supplies pressurized air to the nozzle shown in through an air conduit . This creates a low pressure area inside the nozzle cavity. The low pressure is used to siphon fuel from a fuel container through a fuel regulator and a siphoning fuel line to the nozzle . The nozzle provides an atomized fuel spray which is ignited within a combustion chamber of the burner unit . A control knob is used to regulate both the output of the compressor and the flow of fuel to the nozzle .

As best shown in the control knob is coupled to both a feedback potentiometer and a needle valve . The control knob engages slots and on the feedback potentiometer . The control knob also engages a cap of the needle valve . The feedback potentiometer controls the output of the compressor and accordingly the air pressure in the nozzle . The needle valve has male threading which engages corresponding female threading not shown in the fuel block which is shown in . As the stove operates fuel is siphoned from the fuel container through the fuel regulator and the fuel line all of which are shown in . Fuel then flows from the fuel line through a fuel valve which in this example is a shut off solenoid valve shown in . Finally fuel flows from through the fuel valve to the needle valve shown in and to the nozzle . Rotation of the control knob causes axial movement of a valve stem not shown of the needle valve which controls the flow of fuel to the nozzle . At the same time the control knob also rotates the feedback potentiometer to control the speed of the compressor so that the amount of pressurized air supplied to the nozzle is correct for the amount of fuel being supplied through the fuel line . Accordingly when the control knob is rotated two fuel flow parameters are altered simultaneously. These two fuel control parameters are arranged so that a linear fuel rate is maintained.

An igniter shown in is mounted on the fuel block . The igniter ignites the air fuel mixture expelled from the nozzle . The igniter is attached to the fuel block so its position relative to the nozzle and fuel spray is maintained. This ensures reliable flame ignition and longer igniter life. A flame sensor shown in is also mounted on the fuel block . The flame sensor views a flame in the burner through an aperture shown in in the fuel block . The flame sensor is located immediately beside the nozzle optimizing the viewing angle. The view of the flame sensor is generally parallel to a longitudinal axis of nozzle .

The flame sensor measures the flame intensity and converts it to a DC voltage signal. The flame sensor is designed to respond to changing light intensity rather than responding to steady state light intensity. All flames have a characteristic changing light intensity or flicker frequency. The flame sensor is tuned to respond to a specific flame flicker frequency and ignore other sources of light intensities such as sunlight or fluorescent light. The flame sensor measures the flame intensity in the infrared spectrum. A threshold value for the DC signal is established. If the DC signal is over the threshold a flame is present. If the DC signal is below the threshold no flame is present. When no flame is present the flame sensor signals a stove controller shown in to shut down the stove . The stove controller is in the form of a micro processor and controls all electrical and process functions of the stove . The stove controller controls and modulates the input voltage and output voltage as constant voltage components using PWM control. In this example each of the output circuits utilizes MOSFET style transistors with internal thermal protection to control the required devices.

The fuel delivery assembly as shown in further includes an air valve which in this example is a three way two position solenoid valve. The air valve selects between an air filter and a vent assembly not shown . This allows the compressor to operate in two modes. In a first mode the air valve is in a normal position and air is drawn through the air filter allowing the compressor to supply pressurized air to the nozzle . In a second mode the air valve is in an energized position and air is drawn from the vent assembly to assist in re fuelling the fuel container by drawing air from the fuel container and drawing fuel into the fuel container through a fuel supply line not shown . Referring to the vent assembly also includes a vent valve for the fuel container which in this example is a shut off solenoid valve. The vent valve is closed during re fuelling and when the stove is non operational to create a low pressure area in the fuel container . When the stove is operational the vent valve is open to maintain the fuel at atmospheric pressure. There is also a fuel level sensor also shown in which signals the stove controller to stop the compressor when the fuel container is full. The fuel level sensor may also signal the stove controller when the fuel container is empty.

The thermostatic control device is best shown in and generally comprises a control box a temperature sensor and a wiring harness . In this example the control box has an input mechanism including two input keys and which allow for the adjustment of a set temperature point. One input key is used to increase the set temperature point and the other input key is used to decrease the set temperature point. The set temperature point may be any temperature value and preferably between a minimum temperature of 100 F. and a maximum temperature of 500 F. The control box also includes two indicators and . Indicator is a green RUN indicator and signifies that the thermostatic control device is operating in a temperature control mode. Indicator is a red SERVICE indicator and signifies that a fault has occurred. There is an easily readable alpha numeric display disposed on a front of the thermostatic control device . In this example the display is a bright LCD upon which both the actual temperature of the appliance and set temperature point are displayed as shown. The actual temperature of the appliance is shown larger than the set temperature point and is located near the center of the display in the illustrated example. The set temperature point is located in an upper right hand corner of the display in the illustrated example. The display may also relay output regarding the operation of the thermostatic control device . In other examples the display could vary.

The temperature sensor is operatively connected by a cable to a sealed connector not shown on a back of the thermostatic control device . Preferably the temperature sensor is able to be connected to and disconnected from the control box without the use of tools. In this example the temperature sensor is a direct connect temperature probe. However any suitable temperature sensor may be used. The harness is also sealedly connected to the back of the control box and preferably permanently connected to the back the back of the control box . A distal end of the harness has a sufficient amount and style of connectors and to properly interface with various food preparation or sanitation appliances. The harness may also be provided with a protective sheath to protect the wiring from dirt food and other miscellaneous debris. In this example the harness interfaces the thermostatic control device with the stove as shown in . However any other suitable means such as wireless communications may be used to interface the thermostatic control device with an appliance.

In operation and as best shown in the harness operatively connects the thermostatic control device to a control panel of the stove . The stove provides a power source for the thermostatic control device . In this example the control panel is hingedly connected to the stove and may be opened as shown in . The control panel also houses the stove controller which is shown in . The temperature sensor is retained by a bracket mounted on the appliance and is able to sense the actual temperature of the appliance . When the stove is powered up the thermostatic control device may also be powered up. Alternatively when the thermostatic control device is powered up the stove may also be powered up. A user may enter a desired set temperature point into the thermostatic control device using the input keys and . The thermostatic control device then operates the stove in a flame on flame out fashion to maintain the actual temperature of the appliance at or about the set temperature point. The thermostatic control device may also be provided with a mounting bracket to allow for mounting of the thermostatic control device on the stove the appliance or another support structure.

Referring now to this is a block diagram illustrating the interface between the thermostatic control device and stove . The thermostatic control device is connected in line between the stove and select stove devices such that the thermostatic control device can monitor and manipulate the compressor fuel valve flame sensor and igniter . The thermostatic control device has the ability to interrupt or switch off the compressor and or fuel valve outputs. Thermostatic control device also has the ability to divert compressor output to the igniter . Finally the thermostatic control device has the ability to drive a high analog voltage level such that a flame on signal is simulated or alternatively drive a low analog voltage level such that a flame out signal is simulated.

Referring to and when the actual temperature of the appliance equals or exceeds a maximum threshold temperature the temperature sensor is in communication with and signals a thermostatic control device controller which is disposed in the control box . The thermostatic control device controller in turn diverts compressor output power to the igniter thereby interrupting the compressor . As a result the compressor is shut off and the flame is extinguished because there is no low pressure area to siphon fuel from the fuel tank to the nozzle . The thermostatic control device controller also drives a signal from the flame sensor to a high analog voltage to simulate the presence of a flame so that the stove controller acts as if a flame is still present. Accordingly only the compressor is shut off and not the entire stove . The stove is thereby maintained in a standby state. When the actual temperature of the appliance is equal to or less than a minimum threshold temperature the temperature sensor signals the thermostatic control device controller . The thermostatic control device controller reconnects the compressor output to the compressor and drives a signal from the flame sensor to a low analog voltage to simulate the absence of a flame. This causes the stove controller to re ignite the flame. As a result fuel flows to the nozzle and the flame is re ignited. The stove is thereby returned to a fully operational state. This cycle shown in is repeated as the actual temperature of the appliance fluctuates between the maximum threshold temperature and the minimum threshold temperature.

The maximum threshold temperature is a temperature value which is greater than the set temperature point and in this example preferably 3 F. above the set temperature point. The minimum threshold temperature is a temperature value which is less than the set temperature point and in this example preferably 3 F. below the set temperature point. Accordingly the thermostatic control device is able to maintain the actual temperature of the appliance at or about the set temperature point without requiring manual and intermittent rotation of the control knob . However the thermostatic control device may also have a manual setting in which the output of the burner unit may be controlled through rotation of the control knob . The thermostatic control device offers the further advantage that it does not interfere with control of the stove s vent valve air valve or fuel level sensor thereby allowing for normal refueling of the stove as described herein.

Referring to and the functionality of the thermostatic control device will now be discussed. is a state diagram illustrating the overall functionality of the thermostatic control device . Initially the stove is powered up in a normal fashion to a POWERUP state as indicated by block . The stove is then maintained in a STANDBY state as indicated by blocks and while the thermostatic control device monitors the actual temperature of the appliance and stove outputs. If a fault is detected the stove is sent to a SHUT DOWN state as indicated by block . Otherwise the thermostatic control unit completes a pre check as indicated by block . If the actual temperature of the appliance is below the set temperature point the thermostatic control device leaves all inputs and outputs unaltered allowing the stove to continue to provide heat in a HEAT state as indicated by block . If the actual temperature of the appliance is equal to or exceeds the maximum threshold temperature the thermostatic control device prevents the burner unit from igniting and goes straight to a COOL state indicated by block .

When the actual temperature of the appliance is initially below the set temperature point the stove operates in the HEAT state indicated by block to raise the temperature of the appliance . Once the actual temperature of the appliance is equal to or exceeds the maximum threshold temperature the thermostatic control device shuts off the burner unit by diverting compressor output power to the igniter . This provides a load to the compressor drive circuit and prevents an open circuit fault condition. The thermostatic control device then drives the flame sensor signal to a high analog voltage to simulate the presence of a flame. This results in a SIMULATE state as indicated by block . Power to the compressor and fuel valve is then interrupted to halt operation of the burner unit resulting in the COOL state indicated by block .

In the COOL state the actual temperature of the appliance will decrease. Once the actual temperature of the appliance is equal to or less than the minimum threshold temperature the thermostatic control device restarts the stove as indicated by block . In the RESTART state the thermostatic control device drives the flame sensor to a low analog voltage level to stimulate the absence of a flame thereby triggering the stove to re ignite the burner unit . This is done by temporarily turning off the fuel valve and energizing the igniter . After a short delay fuel is re introduced to the burner unit by turning on the fuel valve . Reconnecting the compressor and fuel valve outputs allows the stove controller to control the compressor and fuel valve resulting in an ENABLE STOVE state indicated by block . The thermostatic control device then releases the flame sensor signal so the presence of a flame is reported to the stove controller . At this point the stove controller re ignites the burner . The thermostatic control unit now stops diverting compressor output power to the igniter resulting in the HEAT state indicated by block . The stove remains in the HEAT state until the actual temperature of the appliance is equal to or greater than the maximum threshold temperature at which point the cycle repeats. If at any point in the cycle a fault is detected a SHUT DOWN STOVE state indicated by block is triggered.

Referring now to a first embodiment of a stove provided with an integrated thermostatic control is shown. The stove of is generally similar to the stove of and is provided with a control knob . However with reference to the stove of does not have a feedback potentiometer to control the output of the compressor. Rather to control the output of the compressor a variable air bleed orifice is incorporated into the needle valve which controls the flow of fuel to the nozzle. The variable air bleed orifice is used to bleed off excess pressurized air. Accordingly as the output control knob is adjusted both the fuel rate and the pressurized air supply are simultaneously altered to maintain a linear fuel rate.

Referring back to the stove also differs from the stove of in that the thermostatic control is integrated into the stove . A control panel of the stove includes two input keys and which allow for adjustment of a set temperature point. One input key is used to increase the set temperature point and the other input key is used to decrease the set temperature point. The control panel of the stove also includes two indicators and . Indicator is a green RUN indicator and signifies that the stove is operating in a temperature control mode. Indicator is a red SERVICE indicator and signifies that a fault has occurred. There is an easily readable alpha numeric display disposed on the control panel of the stove which may display the actual temperature of the stove and the set temperature point. There is also a temperature probe connection receptacle disposed on the control panel of the stove to allow a temperature probe harness and quick connect temperature probe to be coupled to the stove .

Referring now to a second embodiment of a stove provided with an integrated thermostatic control is shown. The stove of is generally similar to the stove of and is provided with a control knob . There is also a control panel with two input keys and to set a temperature point two indicators and to signify either a RUN control mode or a SERVICE fault mode and an alpha numeric display to display temperature or other information. However the stove of differs from the stove of in that the stove does not have a temperature probe connection receptacle. Rather the stove is provided with an integral temperature probe harness with a temperature probe connector thereby allowing a quick connect temperature probe to be connected to the stove .

The stoves and integrate closed loop temperature functionality directly into the stove controller and take advantage of existing microprocessor control and driver circuits. The integration of the closed loop temperature functionality into the stoves requires a temperature sensing circuitry similar to that of the thermostatic control device shown in . Also required is a means to couple a temperature probe to the stove e.g. a temperature probe connection receptacle or an integral temperature probe harness with a probe connector. Additional input keys indicators and alpha numeric display may be included.

It will be understood by a person skilled in the art that although in the example provided above the thermostatic control device is interfaced with or integrated into a stove that in other examples the thermostatic control device may be interfaced with any appliance comprising a burner. Alternatively the thermostatic control device may be integral with any appliance comprising a burner.

It will be further understood by someone skilled in the art that many of the details provided above are by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention which is to be determined with reference to the following claims.

