---

title: Compression of IMU data for transmission of AP
abstract: A method, controller and system in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure facilitate reduced energy consumption in a motion sensing device having an inertial measurement unit (IMU), with a strap down integration unit, and an application processing unit (AP). The system and method include rounding velocity increments and orientation increments at the inertial measurement unit, thereby producing a remainder values. The remainder values are added to subsequent velocity increments and orientation increments prior to rounding of those values, and so on. In this way, while motion granularity is slightly decreased, there is no drift of integration errors over time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08981904&OS=08981904&RS=08981904
owner: Xsens Holding B.V.
number: 08981904
owner_city: Enschede
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20120327
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 940 420 filed on Nov. 5 2010 and entitled Method and a System for Enabling a Wireless Communication Between a Master Unit and a Sensor Unit which claims priority to European Patent Application 09175290.7 filed Nov. 6 2009 the entirety of both applications being herein incorporated by reference for all that they teach without exclusion of any part.

The present disclosure relates to communications between an inertial measurement unit IMU and an application processor AP and more particularly relates to compression of motion data for transmission between the IMU and AP.

The accurate recording or analysis of any movement requires first and foremost that the movement be accurately sensed. This was the basis for early navigational tools such as the magnetic compass and the astrolabe and it remains true today. Moreover while tools such as the compass and astrolabe require external sources of reference to determine motion it is sometimes necessary to determine motion internally i.e. via inertial measurements alone.

Early inertial measurement systems required that the sensing elements be isolated from the surrounding environment via complex and troublesome gimbaled or fluid suspended gyro stabilized platforms. However advances in electronics and micro devices have facilitated a variety of inertial sensor system known as a strap down system sometimes referred to as a Strap Down Integration system or Strap Down Inertial system both abbreviated SDI .

A typical SDI system contains two primary components namely an inertial measurement unit IMU and an application processor AP . A typical architecture based on these components is shown in . The illustrated system contains the IMU and the AP with a number of sub elements within the IMU . These include an analog section having a number of gyroscopic sensors and acceleration sensors accelerometers providing input to an analog to digital converter ADC . The ADC periodically samples the sensors and digitizes their values for calibration adjustment through a calibration module . Calibration may be based on environmental factors such as a temperature value from temperature sensor or otherwise. Finally within the IMU the digitized and calibrated values are provided to the SDI unit for integration.

In order to prevent aliasing coning and sculling which may be caused by vibration or shocks the sampling frequency at the analog side of the ADC must typically be high. Thus in most state of the art IMUs the analog sensing elements are sampled at a rate of a few kHz e.g. 2 4 kHz. However transmitting this raw data to the AP via the link requires the link to have a very high bandwidth. Moreover the actual update rate required by an application using the data may be lower. For example an update rate of 24 Hz may be sufficient if the output is streamed to screen and an update rate as low as 1 Hz may be sufficient for pedestrian navigation guidance applications. Therefore the SDI unit may combine a number of samples to determine the increment in the angle and velocity q and v respectively . The processed values are then transmitted over a link to the AP .

Where the sample rate is implemented in hardware the SDI rate is defined by the number of integrated samples and the update rate by the number of SDI frames. In most devices the SDI rate is the same as the update rate. On professional grade IMUs there are typically no buffers implemented since the AP using such devices should always have the time or be configured to handle the data and or buffers are implemented sufficiently on the receive side e.g. by implementing the communication using direct memory access DMA in which data points are stored in memory without involving the AP.

For consumer grade mobile devices power consumption is a significant concern and so power management is typically achieved by lowering the update rate of the IMU and switching the processor to a low power or sleep mode to occasionally wake up and handle data from the sensors. As such digital IMUs integrated in mobile devices often use an on board FIFO memory structure to store their data and have it ready for the processor to fetch it in a single burst.

However the described current state of the art architecture for mobile devices using consumer grade IMUs exhibits two substantial problems namely excessively low update rate and buffer overflow. With respect to the update rate to preserve power typically the update rate at the mobile device will be as low as possible. This also might be implemented in hardware by limiting the bandwidth i.e. lowering the clock of the communication line thereby effectively making it impossible to send data at higher update rates. With respect to buffer overflow when strap down integration is implemented the buffer of the IMU may overflow when the AP is too busy to read out the buffer or when the bus is too full with other communication.

The described system and method allow flexibility in fitting the output format representation of motion increments to the specific demands of e.g. higher level protocols without sacrificing integral accuracy. This is beneficial since motion increments typically require higher number of bits of resolution e.g. from 16 to 32 to preserve accuracy. Such a high number of bits may be undesirable or simply unacceptable e.g. to maintain compliance with pre existing data packet format. Thus the present disclosure is directed to a system and method for addressing some or all of the above difficulties however it should be appreciated that the solution of any particular problem is not a limitation on the scope of this disclosure or of the attached claims except to the extent expressly noted.

Additionally this background section discusses problems and solutions noted by the inventors the inclusion of any problem or solution in this section is not an indication that the problem or solution represents known prior art except as otherwise expressly noted. With respect to prior art that is expressly noted as such the summary thereof is not intended to alter or supplement the prior art document itself any discrepancy or difference should be resolved by reference to the prior art.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure a system and method are provided for reducing energy usage in a motion sensing device having an inertial measurement unit with a strap down integration unit and an application processing unit. The disclosed technique includes A method controller and system in accordance with various aspects of the present disclosure facilitate reduced energy consumption in a motion sensing device having an inertial measurement unit IMU with a strap down integration unit and an application processing unit AP . The system and method include rounding velocity increments and orientation increments at the inertial measurement unit thereby producing a remainder values. The remainder values are added to subsequent velocity increments and orientation increments prior to rounding of those values and so on. In this way while motion granularity is slightly decreased there is no drift of integration errors over time.

In an embodiment the remainder values are delayed by one output sample period prior to the step of combining. In a further embodiment a variable quantization step is applied during rounding e.g. by rounding smaller increments with a finer resolution than larger increments.

A signal pre conditioning transformation may be applied to motion increments and may include applying a transformation curve such that the values of the motion increments are variably compressed according to the curve. The rounded increments may be mapped prior to transmission using variable length coding. Additionally or alternatively a predicative algorithm may be applied to the rounded values to compress them for transmission.

Additional and alternative features and aspects of the disclosed methods and systems will become apparent from reading the detailed specification in conjunction with the included drawing figures.

The present disclosure provides methods for further compressing data for transmission between an IMU and an AP within a device architecture including a serial connection between the AP and IMU the IMU having a FIFO buffer for storing velocity and orientation increments obtained by strap down integration.

In an embodiment of the invention the FIFO minimally contains the last velocity increment and orientation increment i.e. an on demand configuration . In a further embodiment of the invention a user can opt to configure the IMU such that the last velocity and orientation increment is sent only on request of the AP thereby reducing the information stream to what is absolutely necessary for the application. Each time the IMU is sampled a small orientation velocity increment is added to the existing orientation velocity increment. After the buffer has been readout at the request of the AP the SDI values velocity and orientation increments are reset to zero.

With above overview in mind and turning now to there is shown an exemplary architecture in keeping with the present disclosure. The illustrated architecture includes an IMU and an AP . The IMU in turn comprises an SDI unit for receiving calibrated sensor data on inputs e.g. from a calibration unit in communication with a plurality of accelerometers and gyroscopic sensors in a traditional manner.

The IMU further includes a first in first out FIFO buffer . The FIFO buffer receives velocity and orientation increments obtained by strap down integration from the SDI unit . The FIFO buffer is in turn configured to serially transmit its contents to the AP over serial link e.g. SPI I2C . In particular a bidirectional interrupt line from the AP to the FIFO buffer is used to trigger transmission from the FIFO buffer to the AP . The interrupt line may be used to transmit an actual interrupt signal or may transmit a clear to transmit signal or the like. The technical implementation of a bi directional interrupt line will be within the abilities of those of ordinary skill in the art and can be done in any suitable manner.

As noted above in the event of an imminent buffer overflow of the FIFO buffer the oldest two velocity increments and orientation increments are combined via strap down integration in an embodiment of the invention. As a result although one or more samples from specific moments are discarded the resulting integrated orientation and velocity increment is maintained albeit over a longer interval.

In a further embodiment of the invention the FIFO buffer contains at least the latest velocity increment and orientation increment e.g. for an on demand configuration . In this embodiment a user can choose to configure the IMU such that this latest velocity and orientation increment is sent only on request of the AP thereby reducing the information stream over serial link to what is absolutely necessary for the application running at the AP .

Each time the IMU is sampled a small orientation velocity increment is added to the existing orientation velocity increment. After the FIFO buffer has been readout upon request of the AP the SDI values velocity and orientation increments are reset to zero. This on demand embodiment of the invention will be discussed in greater detail below.

Within the on demand embodiment there is no requirement to pre configure an update rate at which data will be transmitted from the FIFO buffer to the AP . Rather the AP determines when to request an SDI data point from the FIFO buffer without losing accuracy. In this embodiment further a backtrack buffer may be implemented through which the overflow can be handled effectively without losing data.

The AP is then able to request the SDI data at irregular intervals e.g. when an update is required given the processor load the application currently running and the real time requirements. Issuing the request is implemented via the interrupt line by the AP sending an interrupt signal or other similar signal e.g. a clear to send indication . When the AP asserts this line the IMU will transmit the SDI value at the end of the next frame i.e. at the next integration step. This means that the IMU will not react directly on the assertion of the interrupt line by the AP since that could interfere with the precise sample timing at the IMU . Instead the IMU will check the level of the interrupt line at the frame transition. If the level of the interrupt line at the frame transition is high the IMU will transmit the calculated SDI value.

When not transmitting its SDI data the IMU continues to integrate thereby effectively increases the interval until the AP requests the data. The transmitted value corresponds to the interval between the current time and the last time at which the AP requested the SDI data.

In an embodiment of the invention after assertion of the interrupt line and once the IMU has transmitted the SDI data to the AP the IMU pulls down de asserts the interrupt line at the frame transition. The reason for the IMU to de assert the interrupt line specifically at the frame transition is to allow the AP to capture this moment precisely in the AP s own timeframe. This can then be used as mentioned below to correlate the IMU with other data.

In addition since the AP has information indicating the frame rate at the IMU and how many frames are associated with the interval other corrections could be implemented as well to cope with clock errors e.g. caused by a poor clock at the IMU . This eases the requirements for the clock at the IMU and thereby reduces power consumption. The power savings occurs because precise clocks must be temperature compensated which consumes power. While shared clocks could be used instead this introduces additional complexity and costs. Regardless the time corrections on the IMU data at the AP should not counteract the calibrations done on the IMU itself.

It will be appreciated that the timing data is not available when the AP keeps the interrupt line high to have the IMU transmit at the highest effective update rate as discussed above. However the lack of timing information in this case will not create a problem as long as the clocks of the IMU and AP are correlated enough for the AP to be able to determine the current frame at the IMU given its own internal time. Similarly the AP need not capture the timestamp for each and every data point received since clock correlation algorithms can determine the timestamp of the received data point.

Continuing an example of SDI data request timing is illustrated in the example of . In particular is a schematic frame sequence diagram correlating the timing of assertion and de assertion of the interrupt line with the SDI frame transmission and creation.

From a starting point in time the SDI unit generates sequential frames incorporating data from sequential sample instances. Thus the sequence of frames begins with a frame containing the first two sample instances and has become a frame incorporating the first six sample instances as of the time when the interrupt signal is asserted. While the interrupt signal is asserted the SDI transmits a frame incorporating samples 0 through 5 and begins creation of frames 6 n . At the start of the creation of the frame incorporating samples 6 7 the IMU de asserts the interrupt line at time T.

The interrupt signal is again asserted by the AP during creation of the 6 9 frame after which the IMU transmits the 6 9 frame and begins creation of frames 10 n . At the start of the creation of the frame incorporating samples 10 11 the IMU de asserts the interrupt line at time T. Thus while the update interval required by the AP is T T the update rate of the IMU is much quicker.

Regarding synchronization the timestamp can be obtained in the ISR of the AP and the SDI data can be read for example from its DMA channel. Using the timestamps the AP can correlate the SDI data with other sensor data in its own timeframe since the exact time of capture is known.

The transmission of the IMU should be completed before the AP issues a new request by re asserting the interrupt line . This can be assured via appropriate hardware or software i.e. to ensure that the interrupt line cannot be asserted during an ongoing transmission.

As noted elsewhere herein the AP can keep the interrupt line high and as a result the IMU continues to send data. However if the serial communication line has too low of a data rate such that a new value becomes available during the transmission of a current value upcoming values will be buffered in the FIFO until the buffer is filled at which point the mechanism of combining two elements is used as described elsewhere herein. This demonstrates the manner in which the described mechanism can be used to provide great freedom in choosing the data rate of the serial line even during operation.

Consider a situation in which the AP keeps the interrupt line high and consequently the IMU is continually transmitting the oldest element in the FIFO. Further in this example the FIFO can contain 3 elements and the transmission of a single value takes approximately 3 frames. This means that after 3 frames there is room for a new element. In the contents of the FIFO buffer and the ongoing transmission are illustrated for a number of consecutive frames. As can be seen from due to the combining of the two oldest elements when the buffer is full the system automatically adjusts itself to the capabilities of the serial communication link in use by effectively lowering the rate at which the data is received. This benefit is achieved without requiring any additional hardware or logic whatsoever.

It will be appreciated that since the IMU may be aware of an occasional high frequency event i.e. an event that exhibits significant changes in sensed data at a rate much higher than the AP update rate high frequency events may go unnoticed by the AP in an on demand update system unless precautions are taken. In this connection in an embodiment of the invention a prediction technique is applied at the AP to decrease the update request interval when a high frequency event is anticipated.

Thus for example the AP may keep the interrupt line high through the anticipated event. As a result the IMU would continue sending the data which is then stored in DMA. An example of a predictable event with respect to which this technique would apply is the periodic swaying of a skater. However for unpredictable events prediction is not as effective.

In order to allow the AP to track both predictable and unpredictable events without permanently increasing the update rate an event detection technique implements a buffer at the IMU for use in combination with event detection technique. In this embodiment of the invention the event detection occurs at the IMU . The detection of events may be based on changes in energy sudden stops sudden movements or accelerations and so on. Upon detection of an event the data sent by the IMU to the AP contains an indication that an event requiring a greater update rate has occurred. In an alternative embodiment of the invention an additional line between the IMU and AP is employed to convey event detection information as shown in .

As a result the AP is apprised that the IMU has identified an event by its own heuristics. The indication from the IMU regarding event detection need not be robust i.e. false positives may temporarily increase bandwidth usage but otherwise are not harmful since the AP will still perform a detailed analysis of the data generated by the IMU during the event.

Because a detailed analysis of event data by the AP will generally require analysis of intermediate data points the IMU buffers these points in an embodiment of the invention. In a first embodiment of the invention the AP is responsible for requesting the intermediate points if needed whereas in a second embodiment of the invention the IMU automatically send the intermediate points once it has detected an event. While either option is suitable the first option may be preferred because the control of updating remains at the AP .

In either case the IMU maintains the intermediate points in a backtrack buffer. To be more precise in order to enable the AP to precisely analyze the event the AP needs the intermediate points and therefore the IMU must buffer all the intermediate points between two consecutive AP data requests. This situation is exemplified by sample curve in . In the illustrated sample curve the open points represent updates routinely requested by the AP whereas the solid points represent intermediate values that have been buffered. To implement retrieval of data in the backtrack buffer the AP sets the IMU in a flushing mode e.g. using for the serial communication line after the AP receives the event detection indication from the IMU . In an embodiment of the invention once the interrupt line is asserted the IMU simply starts transmitting all of the buffered data points starting with the oldest and ending with the last one after the assertion.

An exemplary frame stream including an event notification and buffer flush is shown in . The illustrated frame sequence progresses through 12 samples with an event being detected by the IMU after the third sample. Pursuant to the next update request from the AP the IMU transmits the update data as well as an event notifier. In response to the event notifier the AP requests the backtrack buffer contents during the eighth sampling interval and the buffer is flushed including all points 0 1 through 0 5 over the course of the next two sampling intervals. In the meantime all new data is stored in the backtrack buffer as well. In an embodiment of the invention once a buffered element is transmitted it is deleted from the buffer. Furthermore it will be appreciated that with the foregoing technique only the intermediate points between two data requests need to be buffered.

In the event that the interval between two consecutive data requests from the AP becomes very large it is possible for the backtrack buffer to become completely filled and overflow. However instead of simply deleting a sample for example deleting the oldest value as would ordinarily be done with a FIFO structure the IMU combines the two oldest values via strap down integration accumulation in an embodiment of the invention. This operation is illustrated schematically in .

In particular the buffer is illustrated as initially containing 4 SDI data sets with the first being a combined set of SDI values and the last three being the latest SDI values. In addition a new SDI value is to be put into the buffer .

To accommodate the new SDI value the oldest SDI value the combined value is combined with the next oldest value SDI value to create a new oldest value and the new value is placed in the buffer in the space freed up by the combining step. This means that the last value in the buffer holds one SDI value delta orientation and delta velocity albeit over a longer integration time. The advantage of this approach is that although the exact data point in the time series is lost the information of the motion itself is not lost since that information is now contained in the last data value in the buffer . This combination technique can be applied numerous times as needed until the buffer is emptied by the AP .

While the foregoing architecture and techniques serve to conserve power by providing updates to the AP on demand as well as related functionality there is a need in some application environments to further compress the data to be transmitted between the IMU and AP. For example some applications require the IMU to stream inertial data at a relatively high update rate. An example of this type of application environment is a sensored glove for finger tracking as may be used in interactive gaming or virtual reality applications. In such a situation high data rates are required in order to be able to accurately capture fast movements such as when the user is playing a musical instrument like a piano or a guitar.

Such application scenarios would ordinarily require a large amount of data to be transmitted to the AP which would conflict with low cost and low power consumption requirements. In addition to causing excess power consumption such high data rates could push or exceed the fundamental limits of system performance. Although extreme accuracy may not be required in such situations routinely allowing inaccuracy would typically lead to unacceptable integration drift.

In view of these issues a lossy inertial data compression technique is provided in an embodiment of the invention. In this context the adjective lossy denotes a transformation or process that loses data such that a direct reversal of the process to reproduce the exact starting values is not possible. The disclosed lossy inertial data compression technique introduces a coarser data resolution but does so while preserving the integral value of the quantities of interest motion increments and thereby allowing routine loss of accuracy without increasing integration drift. Moreover this solution can be efficiently implemented in low power consumption devices and can be used as a complement to loss less compression schemes.

The resultant angular velocity and acceleration samples are mathematically integrated to angle increments q and velocity increments v via SDI module compensating for coning and sculling. The output frequency fmay range from 0.01 Hz for pedestrian navigation applications to 400 Hz for highly dynamic situations. To preserve accuracy the angle increments q and velocity increments v are streamed with a large number of bits for high resolution typically between 16 and 32 bits .

While this large number of bits allows for high accuracy it would also require significant bandwidth and power usage to transmit the data in this form. To reduce the amount of data which needs to be transmitted to the Application Processor AP the angle and velocity increments q and v are rounded at rounding module to a much lower number of bits of resolution e.g. between 4 and 16 bits . The low bit rounded values designated q and v are then transmitted to the AP in lieu of the high bit angle and velocity increments q and v.

The rounding of the angle and velocity increments q and v produces remainder values q and v respectively which are fed back through delay module to be summed with the next angle and velocity increments q and v prior to rounding. The delay module delays the rounding remainders by one output sample period T 1 f prior to releasing them to be summed with the new incoming angle and velocity increments. In this way new angle and velocity increments which include the previous rounding remainders are created and the rounding error is not accumulated. As such the lower number of bits used to stream data to the AP only results in decreased motion resolution but does not degrade integral accuracy.

An analytical formulation of the motion increments rounding and remainders feedback scheme is given hereinafter to allow the reader to more fully appreciate the operation and benefits of the system. It will be seen that the proposed compression strategy requires only modest additional operations and can therefore be efficiently employed in low cost and low power consumption devices.

For the sake of conciseness this example will limit itself to the calculation of the angle increments. Moreover the problem is formulated using quaternion arithmetics however other formulations can be used without limiting the scope of the example. The rounded angle increments can be calculated as round 2 1 2 1 Where Nq is the number of quantization bits round is the standard rounding operation and q is the quaternion representation of the angle increment defined as cos 2 1 sin 2 2 sin 2 3 sin 2 

Since any arbitrary rotation increment can be represented with a quaternion q with elements in 1 1 the elements in q can be quantized on Nq bits with a resolution of 2. Note that additional optimization can be performed for example using the unit norm quaternion property only three elements of q fully define the rotation increment and therefore need to be transmitted. Additionally assumptions on maximum possible angle increment in a single transmission period would further decrease the minimum number of bits necessary to have the same angle resolution. These optimizations are straightforward and are consequently not addressed here in detail.

Given the above the angle increment rounding remainder can therefore be calculated as inv where the symbol represents the quaternion multiplication and inv is the inverse quaternion operation.

Similarly the summation operation in IMU is a quaternion multiplication as follows where D q is the angle increment rounding remainder delayed by one output sample period T.

The performance of the described technique compares favorably with quantization techniques routinely used in the art. In this regard is a plot showing orientation angle error with respect to time for the angle error obtained with a traditional quantization method and the angle error obtained with the rounding and remainder feedback compression technique described herein for 10 bits of resolution and 100 Hz output rate. As can be seen the quantization introduces orientation drift which increases over time up to about 10 degrees in one minute. In contrast the orientation angle error using the compression technique described herein introduces a coarser angle resolution of a fraction of degree but unlike the traditional orientation error the orientation error does not increase over time.

In an experiment using only 8 bits of quantization the traditional quantization method shows an orientation error of up to 50 degrees in one minute whereas the method described herein shows a coarser resolution of about 0.5 degree but the error does not increase over time. As such it can be seen that the described method maximizes the efficient use of available transmission resources while simultaneously providing resolution accuracy without introducing any motion integration drift.

In general angle and velocity increments will be statistically distributed around small values rather than exhibiting maximum scale range. This is typical of inertial sensor measures for example with respect to accelerometers the maximum range of these devices for human applications is usually between 8 and 16 g to guarantee robustness towards short high dynamics transients e.g. impacts . However human movements cannot generate these excitations for more than a few milliseconds.

Therefore in an embodiment of the invention a variable step quantization approach is employed in combination with the above rounding and remainders feedback compression scheme. In this embodiment motion increments are rounded around small values with a fine resolution but are rounded with a coarser resolution around larger values. In this way the occasional coarser resolution occurring during short high dynamics transients only creates a momentary increase in quantization error but does not cause any increasing motion drift. In human applications this larger quantization error during high dynamic movements would generally be largely imperceptible. In contrast if this variable step quantization approach were used with traditional quantization methods the occasional coarse resolution during high dynamics would introduce a cumulative drift error which would affect the overall accuracy during the following low dynamic motions.

In an embodiment of the invention this approach is alternatively implemented by means of a signal pre conditioning transformation i.e. an invertible function y T x applied to the original increments . Through a transformation curve e.g. hyperbolic polynomial etc. the values of the motion increments are compressed close to the end scale range allowing an effective variable step quantization on the original increments.

As noted in passing above the lossy compression technique described herein only exploits the fact that with proper increments remainder feedback the integral quantities of interest are preserved. Therefore typical statistical properties of the motion increments are not directly used to achieve a data compression gain. However in an alternative embodiment two loss less complementary compression techniques are used together with the described rounding and remainders feedback compression strategy.

As regards the first of these an additional mapping of the rounded increments q v is performed before transmission to the AP using variable length coding e.g. Huffman or LZW codes. Such codes which are familiar to those of skill in the art essentially achieve a compression gain by using a smaller number of bits to code symbols which occur more often. This solution can be implemented with a look up table for example and it is fully transparent in the sense that it can be applied on top of the previously described techniques. Moreover this method is especially beneficial when the minimum possible use of transmission resources is a primary consideration as is the case often with respect to wireless transmission.

As regards the second of the two loss less complementary compression techniques with relatively high output sample rates fcompared to the motion dynamics bandwidth motion increments are strongly correlated in time. Therefore a predicative algorithm can be implemented by the IMU as briefly discussed earlier. Thus for example in an embodiment the prediction step calculates an estimate of the current increment using the previous motion history. The IMU then only sends the difference between the original and the predicted motion increment. The difference is transmitted on a small number of bits of resolution. Upon receipt the AP reconstructs the original motion increment by applying the same prediction algorithm.

In an embodiment the described method is employed to handle a very large range of delta velocities delta v without requiring a high bit numerical representation. This provides a high level of robustness against the occurrence of numerical overflows in very low output rate scenarios. This is beneficial in the case of delta v wherein the computed quantity grows large with larger sample rates. In an embodiment for use in semi static or very low dynamic situations dv will continue integrating the gravity force.

When using quantization although a fine resolution per se would be not required by the application it may still be needed in order to preserve sufficient integral accuracy. This fact will limit the maximum time duration over which dv can be integrated before occurrence of overflow due to its limited numeric range of representation for the given number of bits. This problem is prevented with the described techniques. Indeed the quantization resolution can be flexibly chosen to match the specific application requirements for the maximum duration of integration output update rate .

In summary and overview the described novel architecture in combination with the optional enhancements as discussed above as desired provides an IMU AP system that allows for minimum power usage for data communications between the IMU and AP. This may be useful in any type of device but is most beneficial in power constrained mobile consumer devices such as smart phones and similar devices as well as other self contained tracking units as may be employed to track shipments or personnel. While only certain examples of the described system and method have been set forth alternatives and modifications will be apparent from the above description to those skilled in the art.

