---

title: Providing hotspots to user devices within server-controlled zones
abstract: A user installs a hotspot alert application on their mobile device. The application employs the location technology of the user device to transmit the location of the device, and thus the location of the user. The location can be transmitted to a server located in a hotspot tracking system. By establishing the location of the user, the server may search for hotspots on a database stored on the system. The server establishes the dimensions of a hotspot zone around the user's location and transmits the hotspots and the zone dimensions to the application on the user device. The application monitors the location of the user device and deliver's configured alerts to the user when approaching a hotspot. When the device leaves a zone or remains idle for a configured amount of time, the device requests and receives an updated zone of hotspots.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09144008&OS=09144008&RS=09144008
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09144008
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120208
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 586 820 filed Jan. 15 2012 and entitled Providing Hotspots To User Devices Within Server Controlled Zones. The entire contents of the above identified priority application are hereby fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to mobile hotspot tracking and more particularly to delivering server controlled hotspot zones to a mobile device.

Location data from a mobile device can be used for numerous applications. There are applications that use the location data for locating friends playing games and assisting a user with directions. The location data can also be used to alert a user when the user and the user s device are in the vicinity of a hotspot. A hotspot is any business institution or location that would be of interest to a user. For example a user may choose to be alerted every time the user nears a particular store or restaurant or the server may identify a hotspot as a nearby store that the user frequents and that is currently offering a promotion or coupon.

Unfortunately hotspot information is constantly changing. New stores are built promotions are updated and the user location changes. A user may desire constantly updated hotspot information but the mobile devices are not typically capable of maintaining a database of all the hotspots and hotspot marketing data. Trying to maintain this data may have an adverse effect on the data storage capacity of the device the battery life of the device the required data transmission capacity or other aspects of operating a mobile device.

Conversely tracking the location of the user device by the server and continually providing updates with hotspot data as the mobile device changes locations also adversely affects the battery storage capacity and data transmission capacity of the device.

Thus a need in the art exists for systems and methods that improve upon one or more of the above described limitations.

An aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method for delivering server controlled hotspot zones to a mobile device. A user installs a hotspot alert application HAA on their mobile device. The HAA employs the location technology of the user device to determine a location of user device. The location can be transmitted to a server located in a hotspot tracking system HTS . By establishing the location of the user the HTS may search for hotspots on a database stored on the system. The HTS establishes the dimensions of a hotspot zone substantially surrounding the user s location. The HTS transmits the hotspots and the zone dimensions to the HAA. The HAA monitors the location of the user device and may deliver configured alerts to the user when approaching a hotspot. Alternatively the HAA may notify the server when the user is approaching a hotspot and the server may determine whether to alert the user. When the device leaves a zone or remains idle for a configured amount of time the device requests and receives an updated zone of hotspots.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product that is installed on a user s device and on a server located in an HTS for delivering server controlled hotspot zones to a mobile device. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable storage device having computer readable program instructions stored therein. The computer readable program instructions include computer program instructions for transmitting the user s location from the user device to the HTS server searching for hotspots on a database stored on the system establishing the dimensions of the hotspot zone around the user s location transmitting the hotspots and the zone dimensions to the user device monitoring the location of the device and alerting the user when approaching a hotspot requesting and receiving updated hotspot information when the device leaves a zone or remains idle for a configured amount of time.

Another aspect of the present invention provides a system for delivering server controlled hotspot zones to a mobile device. The HAA is configured for transmitting the user s location to the HTS server monitoring the location of the device and requesting and receiving updated hotspot information when the device leaves a zone or remains idle for a configured amount of time. The HAA also may alert the user when approaching a hotspot or may notify the server when the user is approaching a hotspot and the server may determine whether to alert the user. The system includes an HTS server configured for receiving the location data searching for hotspots on a database stored on the HTS system establishing the dimensions of the hotspot zone around the user s location and transmitting the hotspots and the zone dimensions to the user device.

The exemplary embodiments provide a hotspot alert application HAA that can utilize a user s location data for delivering server controlled hotspot zones to a mobile device. A user installs an HAA on their mobile device. The HAA can provide a user interface for entering configuration information. The HAA employs the Global Positioning System GPS location technology or other location identifying technology of the user device to transmit the location of the device and thus the location of the user. This location can be transmitted to a server located in a hotspot tracking system HTS . The HAA might gather the location data directly from the device operating system or the HAA might request the location from another location based application operating on the phone.

The HTS receives the location data from the user device and identifies the geographical location of the device. The HTS then accesses a database for hotspot information in the vicinity of the user device. The hotspot information may be anything that would be of interest to the user. The category of hotspot information accessed might be user configured or may be selected by the HTS server based on the user s prior activities interests or suggestions. Examples of hotspots that may be identified by the server for transmitting to the user device might include but would not be limited to restaurants stores or other businesses frequented by the user businesses currently offering a sale or promotion businesses currently offering an electronic coupon tourist attractions museums friends identified by their devices or any other identifiable entity in which the user may be interested.

The HTS identifies the hotspots in the user s vicinity and uses the density or quality of the hotspot information to establish the size and boundaries of the hotspot zone to transmit to the user device. The HTS may limit the size of the hotspot zone to prevent any adverse effects caused by transmitting a quantity of data that is too large for the user device and the system to operate efficiently. For example if the amount of hotspot data transmitted is too large the data may require enough capacity on the data storage unit of the device to affect the normal operating of the device. Alternatively if the size of the hotspot zone is too small the HTS may be forced to transmit a new zone of hotspots to the device too frequently to be practical. For example if the hotspot zone data were transmitted too frequently it might consume the battery life of the device.

The HTS may additionally prioritize the hotspot data. Based on user input or an analysis of user historical data such as purchasing history or website usage the HTS may provide a ranked list of the hotspots to the user device. This ranked list may be used by the HAA to determine when or how to alert the user to the proximity of a particular hotspot. For example the HAA may display all hotspots on a map of the zone but only alert the user when they are approaching one of the top ten ranked hotspots.

The HAA on the user device receives the zone boundaries and the hotspot information. The HAA may be an application running on the user device that is configured for any type of hotspot locating activity. For instance the HAA may be an application that is configured to alert a user to restaurants or stores that are a favorite of the user or are currently offering a coupon. The HAA may alert a user to museums or tourist attractions. The HAA may alert a user of other devices operating in the area that may be contacts of the user. The HAA may be focused on alerting a user to any other business or entity that the user or the server configures the HAA to monitor.

After receiving the hotspot and zone information the HAA may display the information on a map or other grid via the user interface of the HAA. Additionally or alternatively the HAA may display the information to the user in any other format that can convey the information such as a simple listing of each hotspot and the distance away from the user that each hotspot is located. The HAA may further provide a route to the hotspot upon request from the user.

If displaying the information on a map view the HAA may expand or collapse the data displayed to the user depending on the density of the data. For example if a large number of hotspots are located in a localized area the HAA may group hotspots together and show the grouping in a single icon or notation. An example of this may be a shopping complex that contains a quantity of hotspots too great to display on a user device. The display may simply show a shopping complex notation and list the number of hotspots contained at that location or any other manner of representing the group of hotspots. As the user approaches the dense hotspot the grouped hotspot may expand to show the individual hotspots in that area.

After receiving the hotspot information the mobile device continues to monitor the location of the user device. If the device approaches a hotspot the HAA may perform any alert function configured by the user. For instance the HAA may alert a user when the user device is within a configured range of the hotspot such as within a block of the hotspot. The alert may additionally take any configured form desired by the user. In exemplary embodiments the HAA may use the alert internally or may provide an audible alert a vibration a visible alert such as showing the hotspot details on the display of the user device an e mail or any other configurable alerting procedure. In an alternate embodiment the HAA may alert the HTS that the device is approaching a hotspot. The HTS may perform any alert function configured by the user or store the alert for later use. The HTS may send an alert to the HAA or to another location. For example the HTS may send an email push notification text message or another communication to the user.

The HAA can be embodied as a stand alone application program or as a companion program to a web browser for example as a companion program to a Hypertext Markup Language revision 5 HTML5 compliant web browser or other type of web browser having messaging and storage capabilities. While certain embodiments are described in which parts of the HAA are implemented in software it will be appreciated that one or more acts or functions of the HAA may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems.

Users may in appropriate circumstances limit or otherwise affect the operation of the features disclosed in the specification. For example users may be given an initial opportunity to opt in or opt out of the collection or use of certain data or the activation of certain features. In addition a user may change the manner in which the features are employed including for situations in which a user may have concerns regarding his privacy. Instructions may be provided to notify the users regarding policies about the use of information including personally identifiable information and receipt information and manners in which the users may affect such use of information.

Turning now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like but not necessarily identical elements throughout the figures exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described in detail. is a block diagram depicting an operating environment for a hotspot alert application HAA in accordance with certain exemplary embodiments.

Referring to the exemplary operating environment includes a user network device associated with a user a hotspot marketing system and a hotspot tracking system HTS . The user device may be a mobile device for example notebook computer tablet computer netbook computer personal digital assistant PDA video game device GPS locator device cellular telephone smartphone or other mobile device or other appropriate technology that may include or may be coupled to a web browser application module or other communication module . The user device may employ a host CPU to process the operations of the user device .

In certain exemplary embodiments the web browser application is an HTML5 compliant web browser. HTML5 compliant web browsers include a cross document messaging application programming interface API and a local storage API that previous HTML versions did not have. The cross document messaging API of HTML5 compliant web browsers enables documents such as web pages to communicate with each other. For example a first document can send a message to a second document requesting information. In response the second document can send a message including the requested information to the first document. The local storage API of HTML5 compliant web browsers enables the web browser to store information on a client device upon which the web browser is installed or is executing such as the user device . Websites also can employ the local storage API to store information on a client device. Other web browsers having cross document messaging and or local storage capabilities also may be used in certain exemplary embodiments.

The user can use the web browser application to view download upload or otherwise access documents or web pages via a distributed network . The network includes a wired or wireless telecommunication system or device by which network devices including devices and can exchange data. For example the network can include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN an intranet an Internet storage area network SAN personal area network PAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wireless local area network WLAN a virtual private network VPN a cellular or other mobile communication network Bluetooth NFC or any combination thereof or any other appropriate architecture or system that facilitates the communication of signals data and or messages. Throughout the discussion of exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the terms data and information are used interchangeably herein to refer to text images audio video or any other form of information that can exist in a computer based environment.

The web browser application can interact with web servers or other computing devices connected to the network web server of the hotspot marketing system and the web server of the HTS .

The user device may employ a communication module to communicate with the web server of the HTS or other servers. The communication module may allow devices to communicate via technologies other than the network . Examples might include a cellular network radio network or other communication network.

The user device may include a digital wallet application module . The digital wallet may encompass any application hardware software or process the user device may employ to assist the device to complete a purchase transaction. The digital wallet can interact with the web browser application or can be embodied as a companion application of the web browser application . As a companion application the digital wallet executes within the web browser application . That is the digital wallet may be an application program embedded in the web browser application .

The user device may include an HAA . The HAA can interact with the web browser application or be embodied as a companion application of the web browser application and execute within the web browser application . In an exemplary embodiment the HAA may further be embodied as a companion application of the digital wallet and execute within the digital wallet . The HAA may employ a software interface that may open in the digital wallet application or may open in the web browser application . The interface can allow the user to configure the HAA and the user account on the HTA .

The HAA can be used to send device location data to the HTS and receive a hotspot zone from the HTS . The HTS that develops the hotspot zone can include a set of computer readable program instructions for example using JavaScript that enable the HTS to interact with the HAA .

The user device includes a data storage unit accessible by the HAA and the web browser application . The exemplary data storage unit can include one or more tangible computer readable media. The data storage unit can be stored on the user device or can be logically coupled to the user device . For example the data storage unit can include on board flash memory and or one or more removable memory cards or removable flash memory.

The user device may include a location based application that the HAA or the HTS may utilize to access location data for the user device . Examples of applications that may utilize the location data and thus may make it available to the HTS or HAA may include but would not be limited to Global Positioning System GPS location technology or other location identifying technology of the user device business finder applications such as AROUNDME location based social networks such as FOURSQUARE location based gaming such as GOWALLA or friend locator applications such as GOOGLE LATITUDE. Additionally or alternately the user device may be capable of providing location data directly from the host CPU . The host CPU may provide the location data to the HAA or may be configured to transmit the location data directly to the HTS .

The HTS utilizes a HTS server operating a hotspot tracking application . The HTS server operating the hotspot tracking application may represent the computer implemented system that the HTS employs to configure user accounts create and maintain user profiles collect the location data communicate with the hotspot marketing system develop proximate hotspot maps and zones and submit the data to the user . The HTS website may represent any web based interface that allows users to interact with the HTS to configure the user accounts and change account settings. The HTS server can communicate with one or more hotspot marketing systems and a user device via any available technologies. These technologies may include but would not be limited to an Internet connection via the network email text instant messaging or other suitable communication technologies. The HTS may include a data storage unit accessible by the server of the HTS . The data storage unit can include one or more tangible computer readable storage devices.

The hotspot marketing system utilizes a hotspot marketing system server . The hotspot marketing system server may represent the computer implemented system that the hotspot marketing system employs to provide hotspot identities locations marketing information and descriptions to the HTS . The hotspot marketing system may represent any number of systems that may be polled by the HTS to gather hotspot information. For example the hotspot marketing system may be the marketing system of a product manufacturer or a service provider. The hotspot marketing system may be a social network system of a user that can provide preferences and historical data of a user s activities such FACEBOOK GOOGLE or LINKEDIN. The hotspot marketing system may be a coupon aggregator or provider. The hotspot marketing system may be a mapping program such as GOOGLE MAPS or MAPQUEST. The hotspot marketing system may be any other service or system that may provide information that the HTS can use to define a hotspot zone and prioritize the hotspots.

The hotspot marketing system can communicate with an HTS and user devices via any available technologies. These technologies may include but would not be limited to an Internet connection via the network email text instant messaging or other suitable communication technologies. The hotspot marketing system may include a data storage unit accessible by the server of the hotspot marketing system . The data storage unit can include one or more tangible computer readable storage devices.

It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers and devices can be used. Moreover those having ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure will appreciate that the user device hotspot marketing system and HTS illustrated in can have any of several other suitable computer system configurations. For example a user device embodied as a mobile phone or handheld computer may not include all the components described above.

The components of the exemplary operating environment are described hereinafter with reference to the exemplary methods illustrated in . The exemplary embodiments can include one or more computer programs that embody the functions described herein and illustrated in the appended flow charts. However it should be apparent that there could be many different ways of implementing aspects of the exemplary embodiments in computer programming and these aspects should not be construed as limited to one set of computer instructions. Further a skilled programmer would be able to write such computer programs to implement exemplary embodiments based on the flow charts and associated description in the application text. Therefore disclosure of a particular set of program code instructions is not considered necessary for an adequate understanding of how to make and use the exemplary embodiments. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more acts described may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems.

With reference to in block the hotspot tracking system HTS installs computer readable program instructions on the HTS server for interacting with the hotspot alert application HAA on the user device . Additionally the HTS installs computer readable program instructions on the HTS server for interacting with the hotspot marketing system . In an exemplary embodiment these computer readable program instructions may be implemented as an embedded script such as JavaScript in the HTS server . The program instructions may be embodied as a hotspot tracking application .

In block the user installs an HAA on the user device . In certain exemplary embodiments the user may navigate to a website of a provider of the HAA and download and install the HAA . The website that provides the HAA may be the HTS website . The HAA may be embedded in a digital wallet on a user device . The user may utilize a user interface of the HAA for configuration. The user may configure privacy settings provided by the HAA .

Additionally the user may communicate with the computer readable program instructions on the HTS to establish user identification and account configuration. The communication with the HTS may be made via any available technology including but not limited to an Internet connection via the network text email or a cellular connection. On the HTS and the HAA the user may configure the categories of hotspots that are monitored. The user may additionally configure privacy settings provided by the HTS .

The HAA may additionally or alternatively communicate with the HTS to establish the format in which the hotspot data should be transmitted. For example an HAA that does not employ a map display feature may only require a listing of hotspots. An HAA may request any other format or data that is available from the HTS .

The user may additionally configure the alerting mechanism of the HAA . The HAA may provide an audible alert a vibration a visible alert such as showing the hotspot details on the display of the user device or any other configurable alerting procedure. The alert may additionally or alternatively be incorporated by any other application that could benefit from the hotspot alert.

In block the user initiates the HAA by actuating a physical or virtual button making a motion such as a tap or swipe with the user device speaking a voice command or performing any other initiation process. The HAA transmits to the HTS the location of the user device . The HAA may be configured to access the location data directly from the host CPU of user device . The user device may have the capability through computer hardware or software or a combination thereof to determine the geographic coordinates of the location of the user device . For example the user device may utilize the Global Positioning System GPS to determine its location.

Additionally or alternatively the user device may include a location based application that the HAA or the HTS may utilize to access location data for the user device . Examples of applications that may utilize the location data and thus may make it available to the HTS may include but would not be limited to business finder applications such as AROUNDME location based social networks such as FOURSQUARE location based gaming such as GOWALLA or friend locator applications such as GOOGLE LATITUDE.

In block the HTS gathers hotspot location data and transmits the location data to the user device . The details of this step will be discussed in further detail with reference to method of .

In block the user device incorporates the hotspot data into the user interface of the HAA . The HAA may display the information on a map or other grid via the user interface of the HAA. Additionally or alternatively the HAA may display the information to the user in any other format that can convey the information such as a simple listing of each hotspot and the distance away from the user that each hotspot is located. The HAA may further provide a route to a hotspot upon request from the user. The user may elect to operate the HAA in the foreground of the host CPU operating system and provide substantially instant alerts as the user moves through the hotspot zone. The HAA may alternatively operate in the background of the operating system and store the hotspot alerts for later access by the user .

In block the HAA monitors the location of the user device as it moves through the hotspot zone. The HAA compares the location of the user device to known hotspots identified on the most recent hotspot zone. The HAA continually or intermittently determines if the user device is within a configured distance from a hotspot.

In block the HAA determines if a hotspot is being approached. For example if a user is walking through a shopping district with the user device and comes within a specified distance of a hotspot such as one block the HAA recognizes the approached hotspot. If a hotspot is being approached the method follows the YES branch of block to block . If no hotspot is being approached the method follows the NO branch of block to .

Following the NO branch of block to block the HAA continues to monitor the location of the user device as previously described.

Following the YES branch of block to block a hotspot alert is triggered when the user device moves within a configured range of a hotspot. In exemplary embodiments the HAA may use the alert internally or may provide an audible alert a vibration a visible alert such as showing the hotspot details on the display of the user device an e mail or any other configurable alerting procedure.

In an alternate embodiment the HAA may alert the HTS that the device is approaching a hotspot. The HTS may perform any alert function configured by the user or store the alert for later use. The HTS may send an alert to the HAA or to another location. For example the HTS may send an email push notification text message or another communication to the user.

In an alternative embodiment the HAA may be configured to alert the user of only the higher priority hotspots. As discussed in the details of method of the hotspot data may be prioritized by the HTS . The HAA may use the priority of the hotspot data to determine which hotspots will trigger an alert to the user . For example the user may desire to limit the alerts to the 10 highest priority hotspots in a given zone. Alternatively the user may configure the HAA to alert the user to every hotspot in the zone.

In block if the user device approaches a configured distance from the boundary of the hotspot zone the method follows the YES branch of block to block . If the user device has not approached a configured boundary of the hotspot zone the method follows the NO branch of block to block . In an alternate embodiment of the application the HAA may require the user device to completely exit the boundaries of the hotspot zone to follow the YES branch of block .

Following the YES branch of block to block the method requests and receive a refreshed hotspot zone. As the user device has left the boundaries of the previous hotspot zone the HAA will have no hotspot data to display to the user or monitor for alerts. A new hotspot zone with a new list of hotspots is transmitted to the user device .

Following the NO branch of block to block the user device determines if the user device has received a new hotspot zone in a configured amount of time. For instance if a user device has remained in one location for a configured time or has not encountered any hotspots for a configured time the method will determine that the user device is idle and follow the YES branch of block to block . A new hotspot zone with a new list of hotspots is transmitted to the user device . The idle time required to trigger the YES branch of block is configurable by the user or the HAA . For example the idle time required might be one hour one day one week or any other time that is reasonable based upon the activities of the user .

If the device has not remained idle and has received a new hotspot zone within the configured time the method follows the NO branch of block to block . The device will continue monitoring the location of the user device .

With reference to in block of method the HTS establishes and maintains current marketing and location data of hotspots that relate to a user . The hotspot information may be anything would be of interest to the user. The category of hotspot information accessed might be user configured or may be selected by the HTS server based on the prior activities interests or suggestions of the user . Examples of hotspots that may be identified by the server for transmitting to the user device might include but would not be limited to restaurants stores or other businesses frequented by the user businesses currently offering a sale or promotion businesses currently offering an electronic coupon tourist attractions museums friends identified by their devices or any other identifiable entity in which the user may be interested.

The HTS may access hotspot data from any system that may be polled by the HTS to gather hotspot information. For example the hotspot data may be gathered from a hotspot marketing system . A hotspot marketing system may be the marketing system of a product manufacturer or a service provider. The hotspot marketing system may be a social network system of a user that can provide preferences and historical data of a user s activities a coupon aggregator or provider a mapping system or any other service or system that may provide information that the HTS can use to define a hotspot zone and prioritize the hotspots.

In block the HTS receives the location of the user device . The HTS stores the location of the user device in the user account. In block the HTS identifies the hotspots in the vicinity. The HTS may access the database maintained for the account of the user . The distance of each possible hotspot from the location of the user is calculated and stored.

In block the HTS uses the density or quality of the hotspot information to establish the size of the hotspot zone to transmit to the user device . The HTS may limit the size of the hotspot zone to prevent any adverse effects caused by transmitting a quantity of data that is too large for the user device and the system to operate efficiently. For example if the amount of hotspot data transmitted is too large the data may require enough capacity on the data storage unit of the user device to affect the normal operation of the user device . Alternatively if the size of the hotspot zone is too small then the HTS may be forced to transmit a new zone of hotspots to the user device too frequently to be practical. For example if the hotspot zone data were transmitted too frequently it might consume the battery life of the user device .

The size of the hotspot zone around the current location of the user device can be determined based on the density or quality of the hotspot information. In an exemplary embodiment the size of the hotspot zone may be established to encompass a configured number of hotspots in the proximity of the user device . For example the size of the hotspot zone can be configured to encompass the specified number of hotspots that are closest to the user device or that provide the highest priority hotspots around the user device . Thus in an area of high concentration of available hotspots the hotspot zone may be relatively small to capture the specified number of hotspots. Alternatively in an area of lower concentration of available hotspots the hotspot zone may be relatively large to capture the specified number of hotspots. Additionally the size of the hotspot zone can take any suitable shape to encompass the specified hotspots.

The HTS may additionally prioritize the hotspot data. Based on input of the user or an analysis of historical data such as purchasing history or website usage of the user the HTS may provide a ranked list of the hotspots to the user device . For example the HTS may be able to determine that a user prefers a certain store or restaurant and rank it higher than an alternative restaurant even if the alternative restaurant is closer to the user location. Thus if the user limits the number of hotspot alerts in a given zone a lower ranked hotspot may be ignored in favor of a nearby higher ranked hotspot.

Another example of a prioritizing factor might be the value or quantity of coupons or offers being marketed by a hotspot. For example the HAA may not alert a user to a nearby hotspot if a better promotion is being offered by a neighboring business.

If displaying the information on a map view the HAA may expand or collapse the data displayed to the user depending on the density of the data. For example if a large number of hotspots are located in a localized area the HAA may group hotspots together and show the grouping in a single icon or notation. An example of this may be a shopping complex that contains a quantity of hotspots too great to display on a user device. The display may show a shopping complex notation and list the number of hotspots contained at that location or any other manner of representing the group of hotspots. As the user approaches the dense hotspot the grouped hotspot may expand to show the individual hotspots in that area. For example if the user is between two shopping malls or between two cities a single hotspot may be provided for each mall or each city respectively. Then as the user approaches one of the malls or one of the cities the collapsed hotspot for that mall or city expands to show all hotspots or a specified number of hotspots at that location.

In certain exemplary embodiments the HTS applies the extracted data to a machine learning algorithm or another statistical model to determine the most effective ranking system. For example a machine learning algorithm can be performed on the hotspots generated for one or more users to learn the ranking system that produces results having the highest usage rates. The machine learning algorithm can be updated periodically.

In block the HTS transmits the hotspot zone dimensions the hotspot identities and locations and any associated hotspot marketing information to the HAA . The HTS may additionally transmit the priority ranking of each of the hotspots for use by the HAA .

One or more aspects of the invention may comprise a computer program that embodies the functions described and illustrated herein wherein the computer program is implemented in a computer system that comprises instructions stored in a machine readable medium and a processor that executes the instructions. However it should be apparent that there could be many different ways of implementing the invention in computer programming and the invention should not be construed as limited to any one set of computer program instructions. Further a skilled programmer would be able to write such a computer program to implement an embodiment of the disclosed invention based on the appended flow charts and associated description in the application text. Therefore disclosure of a particular set of program code instructions is not considered necessary for an adequate understanding of how to make and use the invention. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more aspects of the invention described herein may be performed by hardware software or a combination thereof as may be embodied in one or more computing systems. Moreover any reference to an act being performed by a computer should not be construed as being performed by a single computer as the act may be performed by more than one computer. The inventive functionality of the invention will be explained in more detail in the following description read in conjunction with the figures illustrating the program flow.

The exemplary embodiments described herein can be used with computer hardware and software that perform the methods and processing functions described previously. The systems methods and procedures described herein can be embodied in a programmable computer computer executable software or digital circuitry. The software can be stored on computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include a floppy disk RAM ROM hard disk removable media flash memory memory stick optical media magneto optical media CD ROM etc. Digital circuitry can include integrated circuits gate arrays building block logic field programmable gate arrays FPGA etc.

The exemplary methods and acts described in the embodiments presented previously are illustrative and in alternative embodiments certain acts can be performed in a different order in parallel with one another omitted entirely and or combined between different exemplary embodiments and or certain additional acts can be performed without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Accordingly such alternative embodiments are included in the inventions described herein.

Although specific embodiments have been described above in detail the description is merely for purposes of illustration. It should be appreciated therefore that many aspects described above are not intended as required or essential elements unless explicitly stated otherwise. Modifications of and equivalent acts corresponding to the disclosed aspects of the exemplary embodiments in addition to those described above can be made by a person of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the present disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention defined in the following claims the scope of which is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass such modifications and equivalent structures.

