---

title: Hub coordination service
abstract: In implementations of a hub coordination service, a device includes a communication interface for communication coordination with one or more associated devices of the device, and the associated devices correspond to hub members. A hub manager is implemented to receive a task input to create a task for one or more of the hub members to complete. The hub manager can register the task in a hub that is a private, shared space of the hub members, and then initiate communication of the task to respective associated devices of the one or more hub members for notification of the task to be completed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363250&OS=09363250&RS=09363250
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09363250
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121222
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 580 143 filed Dec. 23 2011 entitled Mobile Devices Family Coordination the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Many types of devices such as mobile phones tablet devices and other computing communication and entertainment devices increasingly offer more functions applications and features which are beneficial to a user and can enhance one s personal time as well as work and social activities. For example children can let their parents know by text message or with a phone call from a mobile phone their whereabouts or that they have safely arrived at a particular destination. Additionally users may contact a variety of different people using a variety of different techniques such as phone calls email instant messages status updates share pictures and so on. Accordingly it may be difficult using conventional techniques to coordinate actions by users of the different devices.

This Summary introduces features and concepts of hub coordination service and coordinated tasks and the concepts are further described below in the Detailed Description and or shown in the Figures. This Summary should not be considered to describe essential features of the claimed subject matter nor used to determine or limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In embodiments a device includes a communication interface for communication coordination with one or more associated devices of the device and the associated devices correspond to hub members. A hub manager is implemented to receive a task input to create a task for one or more of the hub members to complete. The hub manager can register the task in a hub that is a private shared space of the hub members and then initiate communication of the task to respective associated devices of the one or more hub members for notification of the task to be completed.

In embodiments the device includes an integrated display device on which a hub user interface is displayed. The hub user interface includes the task displayed for hub coordination and the hub user interface is displayable on the associated devices that correspond to the hub members. The task can be displayed in a shared calendar in the hub user interface and a name and or a picture of a hub member can be associated with the task in the hub user interface. Any of the hub members may have more than one device from which the hub features and information can be accessed. The hub manager can receive a task check in from an associated device where the task check in indicates that the task has been completed and then post an indication for display in the hub user interface that the task has been completed. The hub manager can also be integrated with an electronic wallet system and initiate an electronic payment to a hub member for the task being completed.

In other embodiments a hub system includes a network service e.g. a network of one or more server devices that executes computer instructions as a hub manager. The hub manager is implemented to receive task inputs from associated devices that correspond to hub members where a task input can be initiated to create a task for one or more of the hub members to complete. The hub manager can register the task in a hub that is a private shared space of the hub members. The hub manager can then determine the associated devices that correspond to the hub members based on identifiers of the associated devices and communicate the task to respective associated devices of the hub members for notification of the task to be completed.

Coordinated task techniques are described. In one or more example techniques involving a private interaction hub or simply a hub are described that support communication between members of the hub to share content. A hub for instance may be specified for a family and thus family members may join the hub to share content such as messages photos and so on. A variety of other hubs may also be configured such as for employees friends and so on. Thus sharing of content may be performed to members of the hub as a whole instead of involving individual communications are previously required using conventional techniques.

The hub may be utilized to support a wide variety of functionality. One example of this functionality is to coordinate tasks and other usage to be performed by different users of different mobile devices. For example the hub may be utilized to support a hub calendar hub chat hub shared contacts a hub journal hub photos and videos tasks a chores hub keys a hub budget and so on. Further discussion of these and other techniques may be found in relation to the following sections.

While features and concepts of a hub coordination service for coordinated tasks can be implemented in any number of different devices systems networks environments and or configurations embodiments of a hub coordination service are described in the context of the following example devices systems and methods.

The client devices are illustrated as including respective communication modules . The communication modules are representative of functionality of the devices to communicate via the network such as to communicate with each other. The communication modules may perform this communication using a variety of techniques such as to support voice communication text messaging e.g. SMS MMS instant messaging communication via a social network service email near field communications NFC and so on. Accordingly the client device may utilize a variety of different techniques to communicate with each other.

The client device is also illustrated as supporting a hub coordination architecture . The hub coordination architecture is representative of functionality to provide a hub that supports communication between members of the hub to share data. The hub for instance may include a user interface via which users of the client device may share content based on membership to the hub. Accordingly the membership may act to support appropriate permissions on content between the users of the hub based on membership to the hub. A variety of different content may be shared via the hub such as messaging photos links background image of the hub videos and so on.

Designated member relationships can be utilized to define how the data and information is managed in relation to the hub and can be implemented to leverage the social contract embodied in the hub. In embodiments the hub is implemented by the hub coordination architecture as a user interface and or a client device application for integration and aggregation of the hub orientated communications activities and information. A hub can be implemented as a private shared space that is limited to access by defined members of the hub. The hub for instance may contain links to other members profiles and based on restriction settings allows aggregation for visibility of some of other members data and information within the hub and so on. The hub may also be configured to share a group calendar which can be viewed and edited a common text message window a posting board a shared photo album a check in feature and any other type of shared information as further described as follows and show in relation to .

An example of this functionality is illustrated in as a hub coordination service . The hub coordination service is representative of functionality to coordinate usage of devices and well as tasks to be performed by users of the devices. For example the hub coordination service may be implemented to maintain a hub calendar hub chat hub shared contacts a hub journal hub photos and videos tasks a chores hub keys a hub budget and so on. Further discussion of these and other techniques may be found beginning in relation to .

The hub is a central space for membership orientated coordination of communications activities information and integration. Designated member relationships can be utilized to define how the data and information is managed and can be implemented to leverage the social contract such as between members of a defined familial group in the illustrated example. In one or more implementations the hub is implemented as a user interface e.g. via a client device application for integration and aggregation of the membership orientated communications activities and information. A hub can be implemented as a private shared space between defined members. The hub contains links to other members profiles and based on restriction settings allows aggregation for visibility of some of other members data and information within the hub. The hub shares a group calendar which can be viewed and edited a common text message window a posting board a shared photo album a check in feature and any other type of shared information.

Devices and or device accounts can be associated within a set of devices or device accounts e.g. a family phone account user accounts a connected set of devices and so on and all or a subset of the devices or accounts can communicate with other devices or accounts. The members of a hub can be defined by any number of different classes of people such as Junior Teen Mom Dad or Parent Grandparent Nanny Life Coach and so on for the illustrated example of a family. Further the members of a family can be defined to distinguish a live in Nanny from a Babysitter for example.

Additionally membership of the hub as well as use of the hub by the members can be controlled by a select collection of users such as one or two mobile phones by the associated users of the client devices. For example one of the members in the hub can be the designated control person such as Mom who runs the household employer and so on.

From a single configuration of the members the hub can be provisioned setup and propagated out e.g. automatically. The features and configuration of a hub may default to an automatic easy setup but any rule feature or configuration aspect can be readily modified by a user. Provisioning a hub may be based on billing e.g. a family billing plan. However if a phone device is changed to a different carrier for example the phone device can still receive texts related to the hub. Alternatively or in addition provisioning a hub can be based on email addresses phone numbers user account identifiers or any other identifier.

A retail person selling a new phone package for instance can easily identify the members each to their new phone devices and initiate the hub being instantiated. From a consumer perspective it just works and members can walk out of the store all set up. All of the data and information can be shared with a single selection and thus the members do not have to share each item e.g. a grocery list photos calendar etc. individually and separately.

The hub user interface may act as a shared space that is customizable and provides for user generated and shared content. Some information can be shared while other information is not. For example Mom s complete Christmas list is not viewable by the other family members but Dad and Kids can add to the list and only view their contribution . Hub setup may be performed a la carte meaning only the features that members want displayed on the hub wall can be selected. For example Mom wants to see the shopping list whereas Dad does not shop and so wants to avoid having the list displayed on his device yet he could still access the shopping list to add items when desired.

The hub user interface integrates functions calendar functionality event and or data summaries i.e. on the wall as well as content that is shared between the members of the hub e.g. lists documents etc. . For example the hub user interface may include a family check in or check in option. The hub user interface may also include a chat section where location check ins messaged are displayed along with other messages interchanged between the members of the hub. The hub wall is representative of an area via which members of the group may add to as desired like a lunchroom bulletin board family refrigerator and so on. In implementations the information can be aggregated in pillars or columns and shown on the hub wall as illustrated. The hub wall can also represent an interrelation between any of the information and data that appears on the wall and its placement in time. The hub settings provide that a user can control which functions are integrated and displayed within the hub such as on the wall.

The hub information may also be context relevant to the members of the hub and the calendar includes shared hub events. Calendar updates can be posted as notice events on the wall and a user can look at the wall to see upcoming hub events or the events that pertain to one or more other members of the hub. Messaging may also be performed that is private among the members of the hub. A member can instant text or other communication to all other members in the hub. Texting such as for a work meeting can divide each members display on their respective devices into individual screens for each member.

The hub may also be extensible and may link to a hard drive on a home computer or sync to just one of the other devices the manager or cloud control e.g. from a network based service . The hub may also be extensible to third parties that add a note on the hub wall such as implemented with application program interfaces APIs for functions to post data to the hub. A third party application however would not have access to the context of the hub wall such as to obtain or display hub data. The private information and hub data could be encrypted and only decrypted by the phone devices that are associated with the hub.

Thus the hub supported by the hub coordination architecture may be thought of as a central space coordination of communications activities information and integration of members of the hub. Hubs may be defined to support a variety of different membership such as for family members coworkers friends acquaintances fan clubs and so forth. Therefore although examples are discuss that relate to a family in the following discussion it should be readily apparent that membership in the hub may be defined in a variety of other ways without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Accordingly the hub coordination architecture may be used to support a variety of different functionality. An example of this functionality is illustrated as a hub coordination service as further described below an shown in relation to the corresponding figure.

A hub calendar is visible on the hub wall and shared by each of the hub members to update other members of hub orientated events and activities as well as individual hub member appointments. In embodiments the hub calendar is displayed as part of the hub user interface and the hub calendar can be implemented as a client device application. Embodiments of a hub calendar include any one or combination of implementation features such as described herein.

The hub calendar can include any type of icons or identifiers of past and future events activities appointments etc. for any of the hub members in the hub. Information noted on the hub calendar can be context relevant to the members of the hub and the calendar includes shared hub events. Calendar updates can be posted as notice events on the hub wall where a hub member can look at the wall to see upcoming hub events or the events that pertain to one or more other hub members.

Conflicts resolution can be implemented to resolve calendar scheduling conflicts among the hub members. The calendar may be shared with others that are not specifically immediate hub members such as Grandma or the Nanny who picks up the kids from school. The hub calendar can include action event and or task reminders that are related e.g. cross linked in time. A school calendar can be integrated with the hub calendar and may be imported information from the kid s school such as for assignments events grades school calendar events etc. For example the hub calendar can import an appointment for a parent teacher conference from a school calendar and a parent s mobile phone can then be updated from the hub calendar to indicate the appointment for the parent teacher conference.

A hub chat feature provides a privatized chat interface for the hub members of the hub within the hub. The hub members can chat individually with one another or with all of the hub members. In embodiments the hub chat feature can be implemented as part of the hub user interface with a client device application.

A hub shared contacts feature provides a shared phone address and or contact listing for all of the hub members in a hub. In embodiments the hub shared contacts feature can be implemented as part of the hub user interface with a client device application. Generally a person that may correspond to one hub member is the point of contact for the plumber carpet cleaner dog walker and other service people but when that person is not available the other hub members typically don t have access or know who to contact. Embodiments of the hub shared contacts feature provide that all of the hub members have access to the hub shared contacts particularly when the usual point of contact hub member is not available.

A hub journal feature provides that any hub member can share any type of material information newspaper or magazine subscription linked reference television programs videos music etc. and tag the material for the attention of the other hub members within the hub to generate the hub s own journal. In embodiments the hub journal can be implemented as part of the hub user interface with a client device application. Embodiments of the hub journal feature include any one or combination of implementation features such as described herein.

The hub journal can be utilized for subscriptions such as a hub newspaper subscription hub content tagging television programs videos magazine articles music etc. to create the hub journal. A hub journal includes the concept of a scrapbook or memories e.g. past events and information however the hub journal generally pertains to the present or future collation of material for the hub members. Additionally each hub member may have his or her own respective journal that the other hub members can access and view.

A hub memories feature provides photos video images and the like in a shared private photo album video library or music library for the hub members of the hub. Access to a photo album of hub memories can be granted to non hub members. In embodiments the hub memories feature can be implemented as part of the hub user interface with a client device application. Embodiments of the hub memories feature provide that a hub memories journal or photo album can be implemented for the designated hub members and or for extended hub members non hub members friends and the like.

A hub tasks and chores feature provides that a hub member can identify and define tasks and or chores for other hub members to complete. The hub tasks and chores feature can be integrated with other hub features such as the hub calendar hub check in and eWallet. For example the completion of tasks and chores can correlate to kids allowance or may be used as a hub incentive to reach a milestone that each of the hub members will benefit from such as a hub vacation movie night etc. In embodiments the hub tasks and chores feature can be implemented as part of the hub user interface with a client device application. In certain embodiments the hubs tasks and chores features may allow the chaining and or coordination of tasks between hub members. For example when a first hub member completes his task it may set up a task for a second hub member for example based on an input from one of the hub members or a workflow defined by one of the hub members . Alternatively the task completion by a first hub member may provide an input for a task to be completed by a second hub member.

A hub keys feature provides that a mobile phone or other portable communication device can be implemented to interrelate with an automobile or building and give a user the ability to grant or restrict access and or use of the automobile or building to someone either within the hub or outside of the hub. In embodiments the hub keys features can be implemented as a user interface with the hub and or as a client device application. The hub keys feature can also be implemented for interaction with application and on line content stores e.g. Windows Store iTunes etc. . Embodiments of the hub keys features include any one or combination of implementation features such as described in the following paragraphs.

Hub keys provides electronic house and or vehicle keys and can be implemented with near field communication NFC security or other proximity security in a phone device. In embodiments the phone is the identity that is associated with the electronic key to a house building or vehicle. A parent can unlock a car for someone or unlock the front door of the house for a child coming home from school for maid access or for a delivery person. Hub keys can also be used to monitor when a child enters and exits the house. A parent can also easily change the locks with the electronic hub keys and the key codes can be updated on all of the hub members devices.

The hub keys can be set as variable time locks such as to limit access to a vehicle after a designated time in the evening. Alternatively a hub key may be implemented as a portable permission slip to allow a kid access to a vehicle television computer etc. Hub keys can be implemented as an intersection of the house and hub. For example the television may not display some channels or content when only the kids are home but will allow the channels and or content to display when a parent is home presumably monitored by adult .

Hub keys can also be implemented to provide a kid money on his or her phone with a spending limit and or a time limit. A parent doesn t have to then transfer money or access cash to give to the kid. This may be incorporated with remote parental approval. Related to hub keys people care about the safety and security of their families. In eWallet scenarios a phone user may have fewer authentication checks for accessing a wallet if the user s phone is connected to the home WiFi and GPS shows that the user is located at the home. The user s phone may also manage a child s allowance. In terms of NFC if a home s front door is NFC enabled a user can grant access to the housecleaning service and get notified when they attempt access or even require a response from my phone to bu10 them in . This can also be used to limit access within the house once a service provider has entered.

A hub budget feature provides that a hub member in a hub can allocate electronic funds to any of the other hub members or to non hub members. The hub budget feature can also link with third party applications to purchase and distribute such things as tickets and gift cards to any of the other hub members in the hub. The hub budget may be implemented in conjunction with an eWallet application and can be implemented for vacation shopping pre paid passes gift cards and to keep track of electronic receipts. In embodiments the hub budget feature can be implemented as part of the hub user interface with a client device application.

In embodiments the central computing device may be a cloud of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices through a network the Internet or other data communication link. In embodiments this interconnection architecture enables functionality across multiple devices to provide a networked service environment of the multiple devices. Each of the devices may have different physical configurations and capabilities and the central computing device can utilize a platform to maintain the associated devices identifiers and implement the hub coordination architecture along with the hub coordination service in embodiments of a hub coordination service.

The cloud includes and or is representative of the platform for the networked service components e.g. the hub coordination service that implements embodiments of a hub coordination service. The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware such as server devices and or software resources of the cloud. The networked service components may include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the mobile devices and .

In embodiments the hub coordination service at the platform is implemented to receive task inputs from associated devices e.g. the mobile devices and that correspond to hub members where a task input can be initiated to create a task for one or more of the hub members to complete. The hub coordination service can register the tasks in the hub that is the private shared space of the members of the hub. The hub coordination service can then determine the associated devices that correspond to the members based on the associated devices identifiers and communicate the task to respective associated devices of the members for notification of the task to be completed. The hub coordination service at the platform can also implement any of the embodiments and features of a hub coordination service as described herein.

The following discussion describes coordination techniques that may be implemented utilizing the previously described systems and devices. Aspects of each of the procedures may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference will be made to .

Example techniques and are described with reference to respective in accordance with one or more embodiments of coordinated tasks via mobile devices. Generally any of the services components modules methods and operations described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or any combination thereof. Example methods may be described in the general context of executable instructions stored on computer readable storage media that is local and or remote to a computer processing system and implementations can include software applications programs functions and the like.

At block a task input is received to create a task for one or more hub members to complete. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device receives task inputs to create tasks for one or more hub members to complete. The task inputs can be received as user inputs to the device and or as user inputs to associated devices that correspond the hub members.

At block the task is registered in a hub that is a private shared space of the hub members. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device of registers the tasks in the hub. Similarly the hub coordination service at the client device registers tasks in the hub for access by the hub members.

At block a hub user interface is displayed that includes the task displayed for hub coordination. For example the mobile device of includes the integrated display device on which the user interface is displayed such as the hub user interface that includes tasks displayed for hub coordination. The hub user interface is displayable on the associated devices that correspond to the hub members. Similarly the various client devices for example each include an integrated display device to display a hub user interface that may include displayed tasks.

At block the task is displayed in a shared calendar in the hub user interface. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device of initiates displaying the tasks for the hub members in the shared calendar in the hub user interface. At block an identifier for example a name and or a picture of a hub member is associated with the task in the hub user interface. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device of associates a name and or a picture of a hub member with a task in the hub user interface. Similarly the hub coordination service at the client device initiates displaying tasks for hub members that correspond to the associated devices in a hub user interface and names and or pictures of the hub members are associated with the tasks.

At block the task is communicated to respective associated devices of the one or more hub members for notification of the task to be completed. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device of initiates communication of the tasks to be completed to the respective associated devices of the hub members. Similarly the hub coordination service at the client device initiates communication of the tasks to be completed by the associated devices for the corresponding hub members.

At block a task check in is received from an associated device that indicates the task has been completed. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device of receives a task check in from an associated device that indicates a task has been completed. At block an indication is posted for display in the hub user interface that the task has been completed. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device of initiates displaying that the task has been completed such as displayed in the hub user interface and or in the shared calendar.

At block an electronic payment is initiated to a hub member for the task being completed. For example the hub coordination service implemented at the mobile device of is integrated with an electronic wallet system and initiates an electronic payment to a hub member for the task being completed. Similarly the hub coordination service at the client device receives a task check in from an associated device that indicates a task has been completed initiates displaying that the task has been completed and or initiates an electronic payment to a hub member for the task being completed.

At block task inputs are received to create tasks for one or more hub members to complete. For example the hub coordination service implemented as part of the platform receives the task inputs from any of the associated devices e.g. the mobile devices and that correspond to hub members. At block the tasks are registered in a hub that is a private shared space of the hub members. For example the hub coordination service at the platform registers the tasks in the hub.

At block the associated devices that correspond to the hub members are determined based on identifiers of the associated devices. For example the hub coordination service at the platform determines the associated devices such as the mobile devices and based on the associated devices identifiers . At block the tasks are communicated to respective associated devices of the hub members for notification of the task to be completed. For example the hub coordination service at the platform communicates the tasks to the associated devices and for hub member notification of the tasks to be completed.

At block a hub user interface is updated to include the task for hub coordination. For example the hub coordination service at the platform updates the hub user interface to include the tasks for hub coordination. The tasks can be added to the shared calendar in the hub user interface which is displayable on the associated devices that correspond to the hub members. At block a name and or a picture of a hub member is associated with the task in the hub user interface. For example the hub coordination service at the platform associates a name and or picture of a hub member with a task that is displayed in the hub user interface and or in the shared calendar.

At block a task check in is received from an associated device that indicates the task has been completed. For example the hub coordination service at the platform receives a task check in from an associated device e.g. the mobile devices and where the task check in indicates that a task has been completed. At block an indication is posted in the hub user interface of the task having been completed. For example the hub coordination service at the platform posts an indication in the hub user interface of the task having been completed. At block an electronic payment is initiated to a hub member for the task being completed. For example the hub coordination service at the platform can be integrated with an electronic wallet system and initiates an electronic payment to a hub member for the task being completed.

The mobile device includes an integrated display device on which user interfaces can be displayed such as a hub user interface of a hub application . The hub user interface offers a unified interactive view of the hub data for a single private interaction hub and the hub application aggregates disparate types of the hub data originating from the various member users of the private interaction hub. For example the hub user interface may provide a single unified access point to shared hub messages status updates check ins hub calendar events hub media hub applications and other types of hub content. As described above a private interaction hub or simply hub is a private network or association of member users who voluntarily elect to privately interact and collaborate with each other in a bi directional manner. The hub data includes any shared data or metadata that is used to facilitate the interaction and collaboration between the members of a private interaction hub and may include shared data for messaging notes contact management documents tasks location updates photos calendar events applications to include collaborative gaming applications and or other media content such as any type of audio music video and or image data that may be available or accessed from any source.

The basic functionality of an example private interaction hub is shown as a golf hub displayed in the hub user interface of the hub application . For example the hub user interface can include various selectable user interface tiles such as a members tile that is selectable to initiate a display of the constituent members of the private interaction hub. The user interface tiles may also include hub chat and or messages tiles to allow a hub member to participate in shared messaging threads with the other member users of the hub. For example as shown the member Bob has asked Anyone up for a round right now The user interface tiles may also include a photo album tile that is selectable to view photos shared by any of the hub members with the hub and a shared notebook tile from which the hub members can view shared notes. For example the golf hub may include a shared notes document that compiles the hub members collective research of new golf equipment. The hub user interface may also display a shared calendar that allows a member of the hub to view edit and post calendar events that will be shared with all of the other hub members. For example the calendar tile shows an upcoming tee time at St. Andrews on Saturday at 9 00 a.m. for all of the members. When a user selects a group item e.g. the message from Bob or tile e.g. the messaging tile further details about the selected item or group items related to the selected tile may be displayed by the hub application itself or the hub application may call a different device application e.g. a messaging application to display further details about the item s .

When a user selects or otherwise engages with a piece of displayed hub data such as the golf message from Bob the hub application may provide additional details or options to the user to permit the user to interact further with the hub data. For example the hub application may display controls to allow the user to edit or reply to Bob s message. Alternatively or in addition when a user selects or otherwise engages with a piece of displayed hub data e.g. Bob s message the hub application may launch or call another device application to permit the user to further interact with the piece of hub data e.g. the hub application may call a native messaging application .

The hub user interface of the hub application can also include user selectable access to third party applications such as when an application is pinned to or otherwise shared with a private interaction hub. A pinned third party application may also utilize the shared hub data such as shared application preferences or shared application state data. For example the golf hub shown displayed in the hub user interface includes a live tile representing a third party weather application that the members of the hub can quickly access to check the weather forecast at their local golf club such as when planning an upcoming golf outing. A user of the mobile device can also customize display aspects of a hub user interface such as the content of the user interface and how the elements of the hub user interface are arranged. Another example of a hub user interface of the hub application is a panoramic hub user interface such as for a family centric private interaction hub as shown and described in greater detail with reference to .

The example system also includes a hub management service and a cloud storage and service . The hub management service manages the formation and maintenance of private interaction hubs . The hub management service can correlate or associate member users of a hub by associating account identifiers of the members with one or more of the private interaction hubs. The account identifier of a member user may be associated with an identifier of a private interaction hub in a data table that the hub management service maintains to correlate the hub members with one or more of the private interaction hubs. The hub management service may also associate devices that correspond to hub members based on device identifiers. The account identifiers can include user membership identifiers and or sign on credentials such as an email and password combination or a username and password combination. The sign on credentials may be single sign on SSO credentials that are utilized for authentication purposes at a number of Web services including the cloud storage and service .

The cloud storage and service can include any type of cloud based e.g. network based data and messaging services . The messaging services may include any type of email text e.g. SMS MMS and or instant messaging services. The data services may include any type of calendar photo album file or document sharing location mapping music sharing video sharing gaming contacts management and or notebook services as well as any other type of services that can be used to share stored hub data . The stored hub data can include any form of messages updates events content media and information that is maintained for the private interaction hubs and is accessible from the mobile device either upon a request from a device and or upon a data push to the device. The cloud storage and service also maintains stored hub metadata that includes settings and information pertaining to the private interaction hubs such as the name of a hub the background image or photo of the hub and an association of the hub members.

Although shown together as data and messaging services various application data services and various messaging services may be operated on separate devices and or operated by separate distinct entities. Additionally although the hub management service and the cloud storage and service are shown as independent services they may be implemented together as a single service. Further a server device or group of server devices can include implementations of both the hub management service and the cloud storage and service representative of a single entity that may be the same server system company system domain and the like.

The cloud storage and service and its constituent data and messaging services interchange the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata between the mobile devices that are associated with member users of a private interaction hub . For example a data and or messaging service of the cloud storage and service can receive a copy of hub data and or hub metadata from the mobile device that is used by a hub member store this hub data and hub metadata in the cloud storage as the respective stored hub data and stored hub metadata and then distribute the stored hub data and stored hub metadata to other mobile devices associated with other member users of the same private interaction hub as well as to other mobile devices associated with the same hub member. The stored hub metadata can include membership information pertaining to the member users of a private interaction hub hub identifiers that correlate a piece of hub data to a particular private interaction hub user identifiers that correlate a piece of hub data to a particular member user modification dates and or other metadata.

The cloud storage and service and its constituent data and messaging services may utilize single sign on SSO credentials for authentication purposes to limit the dissemination of the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata to only the authorized devices of hub members. Additionally any of the devices and services e.g. implemented as server devices described herein can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include a wired and or a wireless network. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by a mobile network operator and or other network operators such as a communication service provider mobile phone provider and or Internet service provider. Alternatively or in addition peer to peer communication techniques may be utilized such as multiple devices connected using a peer to peer communication network.

The mobile device includes an operating system of the device and the operating system includes a hub operating system service that is implemented to integrate cloud based services a hub application and local device applications with the operating system to implement aspects of the private interaction hubs . The aspects that may be implemented include hub formation and membership maintenance synchronizing the hub data on the mobile device with the stored hub data and the hub metadata with the stored hub metadata with the cloud storage and service and providing the hub application and the local device applications on the mobile device with access to the hub data and the hub metadata . For example the hub operating system service may directly access the stored hub metadata at the cloud storage and service .

The hub operating system service or alternatively the hub application may also determine and maintain a local copy of the membership associations of member users account identifiers and identifiers of the private interaction hubs. The hub operating system service may also synchronize the stored hub data from the cloud storage and service with the hub data at the mobile device and synchronize the stored hub metadata from the cloud storage and service with the hub metadata at the mobile device. The hub operating system service may also synchronize with the cloud storage and service e.g. by sending changes or additions to hub data and hub metadata to the cloud storage and service . Such data synchronizations may occur in response to a user launching the hub application.

The mobile device includes the device applications that permit a user of the mobile device to access create and or modify the hub data private data of the user as well as the stored hub data that is managed by any of the data and messaging services at the cloud storage and service . Some or all of the device applications may be implemented as client side components or modules of any of the data and messaging services or may be implemented as standalone native applications e.g. local device applications at the mobile device. The device applications typically each consume and provide access to only a portion or subset of the hub data and the private data such as only a single type of hub data and private data e.g. only messaging data but not calendar data . The device applications also typically present the consumed hub data to a user in conjunction with the private data . Private data is data or metadata that is not associated with a private interaction hub and that has not been shared with other members of the hub e.g. data that has not been shared via the cloud storage and service .

The device applications at the mobile device may include a native or third party messaging application that provides a user with messaging alerts and access to messaging threads. The messaging application provides access to both shared message threads shared with a private interaction hub and private message threads between a user of the mobile device and others who are not members of the hub. The messaging application also allows a user to send a message to all of the hub members without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The messaging application may not provide user access to other types of the hub data other than the hub messages. For example the messaging application may not provide access to the shared calendar events or shared photo albums of the hub.

The device applications may also include a native or third party calendaring application that provides scheduling alerts and access to a visual calendar. The calendaring application provides user access to both shared calendar events that are shared with hub members and private calendar events e.g. Exchange calendar events that have not been shared with other members of the hub. The calendaring application also allows a user to create and or share a calendar event to all members of the hub without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The application may not provide user access to other types of the hub data other than the hub calendar events. For example the calendaring application may not provide access to the shared message threads or shared photo albums of the hub.

The device applications may also include a native or third party media viewing and or editing application that provides access to photo albums of digital photos or other digital media. The media application provides user access to both shared media files e.g. photos videos and or music shared with a private interaction hub and private media files that have not been shared with other members of the hub. The media application also allows a user to share media files with all members of the hub without accessing a hub user interface of the hub application. The media application may not provide user access to other types of hub data other than hub media files. For example the media application may not provide access to the shared message threads or shared calendar events of the hub.

The hub operating system service can expose one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs application binary interfaces and or other types of interfaces to the hub application and to the device applications on the mobile device to allow these applications to access generate and or modify the hub data and or the hub metadata as described herein. The hub operating system service can be implemented as an integrated software component or module of the operating system . The hub operating system service can be maintained at the mobile device as executable instructions that are stored on computer readable storage media such as any suitable memory device or electronic data storage as described with reference to the example device shown in . Additionally the hub operating system service can be executed with a processing system at the mobile device to implement aspects of private interaction hubs.

In embodiments the hub operating system service can initiate the hub management service to provision a private interaction hub . A user of the mobile device can start a private interaction hub and also invite others to join an existing private interaction hub. For example the hub user interface of the hub application may provide an existing hub member with the option to add a new member to the hub and the user may identify the prospective member by providing either a mobile device number or by selecting an existing contact from one of their social networks or other contacts.

The hub operating system service can receive the request from an existing member user of the device and in response the hub operating system service and or the hub management service communicates an invitation to join the hub as an SMS MMS or instant message sent to the prospective member s mobile device that may include a link to a registration site or other registration instructions. The hub operating system service and or the hub management service receives e.g. via a registration website an acceptance to the invitation to join the private interaction hub that includes at least an account identifier such as an SSO credential and associates the new member with the existing hub at the hub management service . Updated membership information including the new member s account identifier may also be propagated to other mobile devices of other members in the private interaction hub from the hub management service . When the new member user joins the hub he or she may be prompted to download and or install various applications configured to provide access to the stored hub data and the stored hub metadata such as the hub application and or the any of the device applications . The hub application may also be the entry point by which a user creates a new hub and or modifies the membership of an existing hub.

A private interaction hub can be provisioned for any association of people such as family members coworkers friends neighbors and any other people that may be associated together in a hub. Additionally a member user of one private interaction hub may also be a member of multiple hubs which can be based on a single member sign on that identifies the member to the hub operating system service and or to the hub management service . For example a person may be a member of a family hub that associates members of the person s family as well as a member of a neighborhood hub that associates members of the person s neighborhood and a golf hub that associates the person s friends that often golf together.

The integration of the hub application with the operating system of the mobile device provides that a user of the device can view a message or update on the hub user interface and in an application user interface of an application that is associated with the message or the update. For example a hub calendar is integrated with the calendar application e.g. a device application on the mobile device and a calendar update that is displayed in the hub user interface can be selected by the user to initiate the update being displayed in a calendar user interface of the calendar application. Alternatively the user may view the calendar user interface and select a calendar event that is associated with a private interaction hub to initiate a display of the hub calendar which includes the calendar event for the members of the hub. As another example a hub calendar event can be displayed in a hub user interface and the device calendar application can access and display the hub calendar event along with any private data calendar events that only the user of the device has access to view in a user interface of the device calendar application. The hub application and the device application both acquire the same hub calendar event data e.g. the same hub data stored on the mobile device . The two different user interfaces e.g. a hub user interface and a device application user interface display the same calendar event data.

In another example the hub messages and chat features are integrated with messaging applications e.g. the device applications on the mobile device and an email text or instant message that is displayed in the hub user interface can be selected by the user of the mobile device to initiate the message being displayed in a messaging application user interface. Alternatively the user may view a recent message from a member of a private interaction hub in a messaging application user interface and select the message to initiate a display of the hub messages interface such as to view the discussion thread associated with the recent message.

In embodiments the hub operating system service at the mobile device can receive social network updates for the member users of a private interaction hub such as when two or more of the members of a hub are also friends on a public social network site such as e.g. FACEBOOK TWITTER or LINKEDIN . The social network updates can be pulled from a social network site based on the established association of the account identifiers of the hub members of a private interaction hub at the hub management service . The hub operating system service can then aggregate the social network updates for a particular hub for display in the hub user interface or on a homepage live tile associated with the hub. The hub operating system service at the mobile device can also be implemented to coordinate multi user interactive updates to an event that is managed in a private interaction hub. For example several members of a hub may participate in a multi player interactive game and each successive interactive update from a member of the hub is initiated by the member at a respective associated mobile device.

The example system includes a device association service that associates or correlates the client devices by device identifiers user identifiers and or by any other type of identifiable association. Any of the devices and services can communicate via a network which can be implemented to include wired and or wireless networks. The network can also be implemented using any type of network topology and or communication protocol and can be represented or otherwise implemented as a combination of two or more networks to include IP based networks and or the Internet. The network may also include mobile operator networks that are managed by mobile operators such as a communication service provider cell phone provider and or Internet service provider. A mobile operator can facilitate mobile data and or voice communication for any type of a wireless device or mobile phone.

The client devices can each be associated with a different user and the users are defined members of a hub . The example client device is representative of the various client devices in the hub. Any of the client devices in the family can include services such as software applications e.g. computer executable instructions that can be executed by a processor or processor system to implement the embodiments described herein. In this example the client device includes a hub coordination architecture that implements features of a hub a hub control service that implements features of a hub dashboard a hub check in service a device quiet service that implements features of quiet time and quiet zone a safe driving service and a device sharing service .

Additionally any one or combination of the various client device services may be abstracted for implementation by a network service provider such as the device association service . For example the client devices that are associated in the hub can be interconnected through a central computing device or system e.g. may be one of the client devices which may be local to the multiple devices or may be located remotely from the devices. In embodiments the central computing device may be a cloud service of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices via the communication network or other communication link. The interconnection architecture enables functionality across multiple devices to provide a common and seamless experience to a user of the multiple devices. Each of the client devices may have different physical configurations and capabilities and the central computing device implements a platform to enable delivery of an experience that is both tailored to a particular device and yet common to all of the devices.

In this example of the client device services the hub coordination architecture includes a hub manager that implements coordinates and or manages various hub features such as hub calendar hub chat hub shared contacts hub journal and memories tasks and chores hub keys and hub budget . The hub control service implements features such as a hub dashboard manager age appropriate content control and safe social networking . The device quiet service implements features such as quiet time and quiet zone . The various client device services and features are further described throughout the document.

Any of the client device services can include be integrated with or implement any of the other client device services and applications. For example the hub coordination architecture can include any one or combination of the hub control service the hub check in service the device quiet service the safe driving service and the device sharing service . In embodiments the hub coordination architecture may be implemented for the coordination of time messaging data activities and any other shared services. The shared services may be any of the client device services and or any type of shared services that may be associated with a service and or multi system operator MSO devices. Further the hub control service can be implemented to throttle expand manage and or reallocate data sharing of the client device services. Any of the hub features and or applications of the hub coordination architecture can be implemented as private some private and some public or private with optional user control to share information and data with public third party services and applications. Similarly any of the client device services and applications described herein may be private public sharable user controllable and or any combination thereof.

The device includes communication devices that enable wired and or wireless communication of device data such as media content and the shared messages updates and events data at the device. The media content can include any type of audio video and or image data. The communication devices can also include transceivers for cellular phone communication and or for network data communication.

The device also includes input output I O interfaces such as data network interfaces that provide connection and or communication links between the device data networks and other devices. The I O interfaces can be used to couple the device to any type of components peripherals and or accessory devices. The I O interfaces also include data input ports via which any type of data media content and or inputs can be received such as user inputs to the device as well as any type of audio video and or image data received from any content and or data source.

The I O interfaces also support natural user interface NUI inputs to the device such as any interface technology that enables a user to interact with a device in a natural manner free from artificial constraints imposed by input devices such as mice keyboards remote controls and the like. Examples of natural user interface inputs may rely on speech recognition touch and stylus recognition gesture recognition on screen and motion gesture recognition proximate the device head eye and environment recognition and tracking augmented reality and virtual reality systems and any other type of audible vision touch gesture and or machine intelligence that may determine user input intentions.

The device includes a processing system that may be implemented at least partially in hardware such as with any type of microprocessors controllers and the like that process executable instructions. The processing system can include components of an integrated circuit programmable logic device a logic device formed using one or more semiconductors and other implementations in silicon and or hardware such as a processor and memory system implemented as a system on chip SoC . Alternatively or in addition the device can be implemented with any one or combination of software hardware firmware or fixed logic circuitry that may be implemented with processing and control circuits. The device may further include any type of a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components within the device. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures and architectures as well as control and data lines.

The device also includes computer readable storage media such as data storage devices that can be accessed by a computing device and that provide persistent storage of data and executable instructions e.g. software applications programs functions and the like . Examples of computer readable storage media include volatile memory and non volatile memory fixed and removable media devices and any suitable memory device or electronic data storage that maintains data for computing device access. The computer readable storage media can include various implementations of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and other types of storage media in various memory device configurations.

Generally computer readable storage media is representative of media and or devices that enable persistent and or non transitory storage of data in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. A computer readable signal media may refer to a signal bearing medium that transmits instructions such as via a network. The signal media can embody computer readable instructions as data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves or other transport mechanism.

The computer readable storage media provides storage of the device data and various device applications such as an operating system that is maintained as a software application with the computer readable storage media and executed by the processing system . In this example the device applications also include an hub operating system service that implements embodiments of private interaction hubs such as when the example device is implemented as the client device shown in . An example of the hub operating system service is the hub operating system service that is integrated with the operating system at the mobile device as described with reference to .

The device applications can also include any of the hub services and applications that implement embodiments of private interaction hubs and or mobile devices family coordination such as described with reference to . The example device also includes a hub coordination architecture which may be implemented in the general context of software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry or any combination thereof to support embodiments of private interaction hubs and or mobile devices family coordination. The device can also include a positioning system such as a GPS transceiver or similar positioning system components that can be utilized to determine a global or navigational position of the device.

The device also includes an audio and or video system that generates audio data for an audio device and or generates display data for a display device . The audio device and or the display device include any devices that process display and or otherwise render audio video display and or image data. In implementations the audio device and or the display device are integrated components of the example device . Alternatively the audio device and or the display device are external peripheral components to the example device.

In embodiments at least part of the techniques described for private interaction hubs may be implemented in a distributed system such as over a cloud in a platform . The cloud includes and or is representative of the platform for services and or resources . For example the services may include the hub management service and the cloud service and storage as described with reference to . Additionally the resources may include any of the messaging applications and the collaborative applications as described previously.

The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware such as server devices e.g. included in the services and or software resources e.g. included as the resources and connects the example device with other devices servers etc. The resources may also include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the example device . Additionally the services and or the resources may facilitate subscriber network services such as over the Internet a cellular network or Wi Fi network. The platform may also serve to abstract and scale resources to service a demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform such as in an interconnected device embodiment with functionality distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part at the example device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Although embodiments of a hub coordination service for coordinated tasks have been described in language specific to features and or methods the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or methods described. Rather the specific features and methods are disclosed as example implementations of a hub coordination service.

