---

title: Method and apparatus for multicarrier coverage diversity
abstract: Methods and apparatus are described for overcoming interference in a multicarrier communication system by applying different antenna configurations to each carrier in a multi-carrier base station based on channel conditions specific to the carrier. Each carrier may be assigned to a different antenna element configuration, each configuration providing a different coverage area. Different portions of a data stream may be transmitted simultaneously via each carrier, the amount of data in each portion of the data stream being defined based on the channel conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08737252&OS=08737252&RS=08737252
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08737252
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
Aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to wireless communication systems and more particularly to reducing interference in a multicarrier system.

Wireless communication networks are widely deployed to provide various communication services such as telephony video data messaging broadcasts and so on. Such networks which are usually multiple access networks support communications for multiple users by sharing the available network resources. One example of such a network is the UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN . The UTRAN is the radio access network RAN defined as a part of the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS a third generation 3G mobile phone technology supported by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . The UMTS which is the successor to Global System for Mobile Communications GSM technologies currently supports various air interface standards such as Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA and Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA . The UMTS also supports enhanced 3G data communications protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA which provides higher data transfer speeds and capacity to associated UMTS networks.

As the demand for mobile broadband access continues to increase research and development continue to advance the UMTS technologies not only to meet the growing demand for mobile broadband access but to advance and enhance the user experience with mobile communications.

Methods and apparatus are described for overcoming interference in a multicarrier communication system by applying different antenna configurations to each carrier in a multi carrier base station based on channel conditions specific to the carrier. Each carrier may be assigned to a different antenna element configuration each configuration providing a different coverage area. Different portions of a data stream may be transmitted simultaneously via each carrier the amount of data in each portion of the data stream being defined based on the channel conditions.

In one aspect the disclosure provides a method for wireless communication. The method may include determining a channel condition associated with each of a first carrier associated with a base station BS and a second carrier associated with the BS. The method may also include assigning the first carrier to a first antenna element configuration and assigning the second carrier to a second antenna element configuration. The first antenna element configuration and the second antenna element configuration may provide different coverage areas. The method may also include transmitting via the first carrier a first portion of a data stream and simultaneously transmitting a second portion of the data stream via the second carrier. The BS may determine the amount of data in the first portion of the data stream and the second portion of the data stream based on the determined channel conditions for each carrier

These and other aspects of the invention will become more fully understood upon a review of the detailed description which follows.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various configurations and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the concepts described herein may be practiced. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of various concepts. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these concepts may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring such concepts.

In accordance with some aspects BS may be a multi carrier BS capable of communicating using a plurality of antennas. For example BS may communicate via a first carrier and a second carrier . BS may be configured to transmit a data stream to MS simultaneously via the first carrier and the second carrier . More particularly BS may be configured to transmit a first portion of the data stream on the first carrier and a second different portion of the data stream on the second carrier . Carrier controller may be configured to determine an amount of data to transmit via each carrier. For example first carrier may be an anchor carrier assigned for control channels and some data channels while second carrier may be assigned as a dedicated carrier for data channels. A data stream may be split between the two carriers based on the channel conditions. In some aspects BS may also be a multi carrier base station and may communicate via a first carrier and second carrier and a carrier controller . BS may operate in a similar manner to BS . Carrier selections for each base station in a network such as BS and BS may be coordinated by a central node e.g. a base station scheduler controller or other controller serving the network.

Turing now to carrier controller is shown in greater detail. In accordance with some aspects the amount of data transmitted via a carrier is determined based on the channel conditions associated with the carrier at a given time. Channel condition monitor may be configured to monitor the channel conditions associated with each carrier. As described above BS may use a plurality of antennas to transmit data to for example MS . Antenna configuration controller may be configured to configure the antennas antenna elements to transmit on each carrier. For example a high gain antenna may be configured for use in transmitting on a first carrier while a low gain antenna may be configured for use in transmitting on a second carrier. In other aspects two high gain antennas having different orientations e.g. one vertical orientation and one horizontal orientation may be used antennas pointed in different directions a selection of antenna elements from an integrated antenna etc.

BS further includes a memory such as for storing data used herein and or local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof. Applications may include for example one or more object matching applications.

Further BS may include a communications component that provides a means for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on BS as well as between BS and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to BS . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices such as mobile station .

Additionally BS may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor . In some aspects data store may be located within memory .

BS may additionally include a user interface component operable to receive inputs from a user of BS or serving as an application programming interface API and may be further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. User interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component a still camera a video camera an audio recorder and or any other mechanism capable of receiving an input or any combination thereof. Further user interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output or any combination thereof BS may also include carrier controller described above with respect to .

Turning now to an exemplary method for wireless communication is depicted. In accordance with some aspects method may be performed by BS . As shown at the BS may determine a channel condition associated with each of a first carrier associated with the BS and a second carrier associated with the BS. For example a mobile station may send back to the BS channel quality indicators CQI that are used to determine the appropriate data and coding rates to ensure successful delivery of data on the downlink. As shown at the BS may assign the first carrier to a first antenna element configuration. The BS may also assign the second carrier to a second antenna element configuration as shown at . In accordance with some aspects the first antenna element configuration and the second antenna element configuration may provide different coverage areas. The BS may then transmit via the first carrier a first portion of a data stream as shown at and simultaneously transmit a second portion of the data stream as shown at via the second carrier. In accordance with some aspect the BS determines the amount of data in the first portion of the data stream and the second portion of the data stream based on the determined channel conditions for each carrier. Carriers with a low CQI may require a large amount of base station power to maintain even a slow data link. As such a base station scheduling node may shift data to another carrier or hold back data until channel conditions improve for example while serving other mobile stations having a good CQI. Different antenna patterns for each carrier provide a diversity of channel conditions increasing the opportunity to route data over the best carrier links.

As described herein by simultaneously transmitting data on multiple carriers via antennas with different configurations the high interference levels at the boundaries of two base stations can be reduced. Generally radio access networks are sized such that the traffic load is supported by the worst performing geographical area resulting in much of the network capacity being underutilized. By improving the performance in the worst performing area the overall apparent network capacity is improved. illustrates the link quality improvements associated with this method. As shown in BS may transmit data over a first carrier C using a first antenna configuration and may transmit data over a second carrier C using a second antenna configuration. Likewise BS may transmit data over the first carrier C using a first antenna configuration and over the second carrier C using a second antenna configuration. In some aspects the antenna configuration used for C on BS and C on BS may be the same while the antenna configuration used for C on BS and C on BS may be the same. Each carrier has a region where it is subject to intercell interference causing the link quality to suffer. By varying the antenna configurations coverage areas the carriers do not have the low link quality occurring in the same area. C has a disadvantaged region closer to BS while the disadvantaged region for C is closer to BS . Because data may be scheduled to flow over either or both of C and C the user can experience the C C performance curve that maintains throughput at a higher level in the boundary area.

Many base station manufacturers use module designs wherein electronics are integrated with antenna modules and different antenna patterns and power levels can be produced by stacking modules in different configurations. In accordance with some aspects carrier diversity may be achieved by stacking antenna modules in different configurations for each carrier on a base station. Each module may contain the complete electronics to transmit and receive radio signals. A pair of antenna elements may be included on the face of each module. In some aspects one antenna element may be angle for example to 45 degrees while the other is angled to 45 degrees to provide cross polarization diversity.

Stacking the modules vertically may provide a vertical beam pattern that is tightly compressed. Grouping the modules into a square may provide a beam that is wide in both the horizontal and vertical directions. Stacking more modules produces more power and gain and results in a configuration that may be suitable for a macro base station. On the other hand using fewer modules may produce lower power and wider beam widths which may result in a configuration suitable for a pico base station. In some aspects some of the modules may be turned off for one or more of the carriers resulting in a different antenna pattern. Adjustments to an antenna pattern may be performed for example occasionally in response to predictable traffic patterns or frequently in response to real time traffic load in accordance with some aspects.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating an example of a hardware implementation for an apparatus such as BS employing a processing system is provided. In this example the processing system may be implemented with a bus architecture represented generally by the bus . The bus may include any number of interconnecting buses and bridges depending on the specific application of the processing system and the overall design constraints. The bus links together various circuits including one or more processors represented generally by the processor and computer readable media represented generally by the computer readable medium . The bus may also link various other circuits such as timing sources peripherals voltage regulators and power management circuits which are well known in the art and therefore will not be described any further. A bus interface provides an interface between the bus and a transceiver . The transceiver provides a means for communicating with various other apparatus over a transmission medium. Depending upon the nature of the apparatus a user interface e.g. keypad display speaker microphone joystick may also be provided.

The processor is responsible for managing the bus and general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing system to perform the various functions described infra for any particular apparatus. For example the computer readable medium may be configured to implement the functions of carrier controller . The computer readable medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software.

With reference to illustrated is a system for wireless communication. For example system resides at least partially within BS . It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a computing platform processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for determining a channel condition associated with each of a first carrier and a second carrier of a base station. For example component may be implemented by carrier controller processor and or processor . Moreover logical grouping can include an electrical component for assigning the first carrier to a first antenna element configuration. For example component may be implemented by antenna configuration controller processor and or processor . Logical grouping may also include an electrical component for assigning the second carrier to a second antenna element configuration. For example component may be implemented by antenna configuration controller processor and or processor . Logical grouping can also include an electrical component for transmitting via the first carrier a first portion of a data stream. Electrical component may be implemented for example by communications component processor and or processor . In addition logical grouping can include an electrical component for simultaneously transmitting via the second carrier a second portion of the data stream. Electrical component may be implemented for example by communications component processor and or processor . Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with electrical components . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of electrical components can exist within memory .

The various concepts presented throughout this disclosure may be implemented across a broad variety of telecommunication systems network architectures and communication standards. By way of example and without limitation the aspects of the present disclosure illustrated in are presented with reference to a UMTS system employing a W CDMA air interface. A UMTS network includes three interacting domains a Core Network CN a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN and User Equipment UE . In this example the UTRAN provides various wireless services including telephony video data messaging broadcasts and or other services. The UTRAN may include a plurality of Radio Network Subsystems RNSs such as an RNS each controlled by a respective Radio Network Controller RNC such as an RNC . Here the UTRAN may include any number of RNCs and RNSs in addition to the RNCs and RNSs illustrated herein. The RNC is an apparatus responsible for among other things assigning reconfiguring and releasing radio resources within the RNS . The RNC may be interconnected to other RNCs not shown in the UTRAN through various types of interfaces such as a direct physical connection a virtual network or the like using any suitable transport network.

Communication between a UE and a Node B may be considered as including a physical PHY layer and a medium access control MAC layer. Further communication between a UE and an RNC by way of a respective Node B may be considered as including a radio resource control RRC layer. In the instant specification the PHY layer may be considered layer 1 the MAC layer may be considered layer 2 and the RRC layer may be considered layer 3. Information hereinbelow utilizes terminology introduced in the RRC Protocol Specification 3GPP TS 25.331 v9.1.0 incorporated herein by reference.

The geographic region covered by the RNS may be divided into a number of cells with a radio transceiver apparatus serving each cell. A radio transceiver apparatus is commonly referred to as a Node B in UMTS applications but may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a base station BS a base transceiver station BTS a radio base station a radio transceiver a transceiver function a basic service set BSS an extended service set ESS an access point AP or some other suitable terminology. For clarity three Node Bs are shown in each RNS however the RNSs may include any number of wireless Node Bs. The Node Bs provide wireless access points to a CN for any number of mobile apparatuses. Examples of a mobile apparatus include a cellular phone a smart phone a session initiation protocol SIP phone a laptop a notebook a netbook a smartbook a personal digital assistant PDA a satellite radio a global positioning system GPS device a multimedia device a video device a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a camera a game console or any other similar functioning device. The mobile apparatus is commonly referred to as a UE in UMTS applications but may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a terminal a user agent a mobile client a client or some other suitable terminology. In a UMTS system the UE may further include a universal subscriber identity module USIM which contains a user s subscription information to a network. For illustrative purposes one UE is shown in communication with a number of the Node Bs . The DL also called the forward link refers to the communication link from a Node B to a UE and the UL also called the reverse link refers to the communication link from a UE to a Node B .

The CN interfaces with one or more access networks such as the UTRAN . As shown the CN is a GSM core network. However as those skilled in the art will recognize the various concepts presented throughout this disclosure may be implemented in a RAN or other suitable access network to provide UEs with access to types of CNs other than GSM networks.

The CN includes a circuit switched CS domain and a packet switched PS domain. Some of the circuit switched elements are a Mobile services Switching Centre MSC a Visitor location register VLR and a Gateway MSC. Packet switched elements include a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN and a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN . Some network elements like EIR HLR VLR and AuC may be shared by both of the circuit switched and packet switched domains. In the illustrated example the CN supports circuit switched services with a MSC and a GMSC . In some applications the GMSC may be referred to as a media gateway MGW . One or more RNCs such as the RNC may be connected to the MSC . The MSC is an apparatus that controls call setup call routing and UE mobility functions. The MSC also includes a VLR that contains subscriber related information for the duration that a UE is in the coverage area of the MSC . The GMSC provides a gateway through the MSC for the UE to access a circuit switched network . The GMSC includes a home location register HLR containing subscriber data such as the data reflecting the details of the services to which a particular user has subscribed. The HLR is also associated with an authentication center AuC that contains subscriber specific authentication data. When a call is received for a particular UE the GMSC queries the HLR to determine the UE s location and forwards the call to the particular MSC serving that location.

The CN also supports packet data services with a serving GPRS support node SGSN and a gateway GPRS support node GGSN . GPRS which stands for General Packet Radio Service is designed to provide packet data services at speeds higher than those available with standard circuit switched data services. The GGSN provides a connection for the UTRAN to a packet based network . The packet based network may be the Internet a private data network or some other suitable packet based network. The primary function of the GGSN is to provide the UEs with packet based network connectivity. Data packets may be transferred between the GGSN and the UEs through the SGSN which performs primarily the same functions in the packet based domain as the MSC performs in the circuit switched domain.

An air interface for UMTS may utilize a spread spectrum Direct Sequence Code Division Multiple Access DS CDMA system. The spread spectrum DS CDMA spreads user data through multiplication by a sequence of pseudorandom bits called chips. The wideband W CDMA air interface for UMTS is based on such direct sequence spread spectrum technology and additionally calls for a frequency division duplexing FDD . FDD uses a different carrier frequency for the UL and DL between a Node B and a UE . Another air interface for UMTS that utilizes DS CDMA and uses time division duplexing TDD is the TD SCDMA air interface. Those skilled in the art will recognize that although various examples described herein may refer to a W CDMA air interface the underlying principles may be equally applicable to a TD SCDMA air interface.

An HSPA air interface includes a series of enhancements to the 3G W CDMA air interface facilitating greater throughput and reduced latency. Among other modifications over prior releases HSPA utilizes hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ shared channel transmission and adaptive modulation and coding. The standards that define HSPA include HSDPA high speed downlink packet access and HSUPA high speed uplink packet access also referred to as enhanced uplink or EUL .

HSDPA utilizes as its transport channel the high speed downlink shared channel HS DSCH . The HS DSCH is implemented by three physical channels the high speed physical downlink shared channel HS PDSCH the high speed shared control channel HS SCCH and the high speed dedicated physical control channel HS DPCCH .

Among these physical channels the HS DPCCH carries the HARQ ACK NACK signaling on the uplink to indicate whether a corresponding packet transmission was decoded successfully. That is with respect to the downlink the UE provides feedback to the node B over the HS DPCCH to indicate whether it correctly decoded a packet on the downlink.

HS DPCCH further includes feedback signaling from the UE to assist the node B in taking the right decision in terms of modulation and coding scheme and precoding weight selection this feedback signaling including the CQI and PCI.

 HSPA Evolved or HSPA is an evolution of the HSPA standard that includes MIMO and 64 QAM enabling increased throughput and higher performance. That is in an aspect of the disclosure the node B and or the UE may have multiple antennas supporting MIMO technology. The use of MIMO technology enables the node B to exploit the spatial domain to support spatial multiplexing beamforming and transmit diversity.

Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO is a term generally used to refer to multi antenna technology that is multiple transmit antennas multiple inputs to the channel and multiple receive antennas multiple outputs from the channel . MIMO systems generally enhance data transmission performance enabling diversity gains to reduce multipath fading and increase transmission quality and spatial multiplexing gains to increase data throughput.

Spatial multiplexing may be used to transmit different streams of data simultaneously on the same frequency. The data steams may be transmitted to a single UE to increase the data rate or to multiple UEs to increase the overall system capacity. This is achieved by spatially precoding each data stream and then transmitting each spatially precoded stream through a different transmit antenna on the downlink. The spatially precoded data streams arrive at the UE s with different spatial signatures which enables each of the UE s to recover the one or more the data streams destined for that UE . On the uplink each UE may transmit one or more spatially precoded data streams which enables the node B to identify the source of each spatially precoded data stream.

Spatial multiplexing may be used when channel conditions are good. When channel conditions are less favorable beamforming may be used to focus the transmission energy in one or more directions or to improve transmission based on characteristics of the channel. This may be achieved by spatially precoding a data stream for transmission through multiple antennas. To achieve good coverage at the edges of the cell a single stream beamforming transmission may be used in combination with transmit diversity.

Generally for MIMO systems utilizing n transmit antennas n transport blocks may be transmitted simultaneously over the same carrier utilizing the same channelization code. Note that the different transport blocks sent over the n transmit antennas may have the same or different modulation and coding schemes from one another.

On the other hand Single Input Multiple Output SIMO generally refers to a system utilizing a single transmit antenna a single input to the channel and multiple receive antennas multiple outputs from the channel . Thus in a SIMO system a single transport block is sent over the respective carrier.

Referring to an access network in a UTRAN architecture is illustrated. The multiple access wireless communication system includes multiple cellular regions cells including cells and each of which may include one or more sectors. The multiple sectors can be formed by groups of antennas with each antenna responsible for communication with UEs in a portion of the cell. For example in cell antenna groups and may each correspond to a different sector. In cell antenna groups and each correspond to a different sector. In cell antenna groups and each correspond to a different sector. The cells and may include several wireless communication devices e.g. User Equipment or UEs which may be in communication with one or more sectors of each cell or . For example UEs and may be in communication with Node B UEs and may be in communication with Node B and UEs and can be in communication with Node B . Here each Node B is configured to provide an access point to a CN see for all the UEs in the respective cells and .

As the UE moves from the illustrated location in cell into cell a serving cell change SCC or handover may occur in which communication with the UE transitions from the cell which may be referred to as the source cell to cell which may be referred to as the target cell. Management of the handover procedure may take place at the UE at the Node Bs corresponding to the respective cells at a radio network controller see or at another suitable node in the wireless network. For example during a call with the source cell or at any other time the UE may monitor various parameters of the source cell as well as various parameters of neighboring cells such as cells and . Further depending on the quality of these parameters the UE may maintain communication with one or more of the neighboring cells. During this time the UE may maintain an Active Set that is a list of cells that the UE is simultaneously connected to i.e. the UTRA cells that are currently assigning a downlink dedicated physical channel DPCH or fractional downlink dedicated physical channel F DPCH to the UE may constitute the Active Set .

The modulation and multiple access scheme employed by the access network may vary depending on the particular telecommunications standard being deployed. By way of example the standard may include Evolution Data Optimized EV DO or Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB . EV DO and UMB are air interface standards promulgated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 as part of the CDMA2000 family of standards and employs CDMA to provide broadband Internet access to mobile stations. The standard may alternately be Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA employing Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA such as TD SCDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM employing TDMA and Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 and Flash OFDM employing OFDMA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE LTE Advanced and GSM are described in documents from the 3GPP organization. CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from the 3GPP2 organization. The actual wireless communication standard and the multiple access technology employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

The radio protocol architecture may take on various forms depending on the particular application. An example for an HSPA system will now be presented with reference to .

Referring to an example radio protocol architecture relates to the user plane and the control plane of a user equipment UE or node B base station. For example architecture may be included in a UE such as mobile station . The radio protocol architecture for the UE and node B is shown with three layers Layer 1 Layer 2 and Layer 3 . Layer 1 is the lowest lower and implements various physical layer signal processing functions. As such Layer 1 includes the physical layer . Layer 2 L2 layer is above the physical layer and is responsible for the link between the UE and node B over the physical layer . Layer 3 L3 layer includes a radio resource control RRC sublayer . The RRC sublayer handles the control plane signaling of Layer 3 between the UE and the UTRAN.

In the user plane the L2 layer includes a media access control MAC sublayer a radio link control RLC sublayer and a packet data convergence protocol PDCP sublayer which are terminated at the node B on the network side. Although not shown the UE may have several upper layers above the L2 layer including a network layer e.g. IP layer that is terminated at a PDN gateway on the network side and an application layer that is terminated at the other end of the connection e.g. far end UE server etc. .

The PDCP sublayer provides multiplexing between different radio bearers and logical channels. The PDCP sublayer also provides header compression for upper layer data packets to reduce radio transmission overhead security by ciphering the data packets and handover support for UEs between node Bs. The RLC sublayer provides segmentation and reassembly of upper layer data packets retransmission of lost data packets and reordering of data packets to compensate for out of order reception due to hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ . The MAC sublayer provides multiplexing between logical and transport channels. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for allocating the various radio resources e.g. resource blocks in one cell among the UEs. The MAC sublayer is also responsible for HARQ operations.

At the UE a receiver receives the downlink transmission through an antenna and processes the transmission to recover the information modulated onto the carrier. The information recovered by the receiver is provided to a receive frame processor which parses each frame and provides information from the frames to a channel processor and the data control and reference signals to a receive processor . The receive processor then performs the inverse of the processing performed by the transmit processor in the Node B . More specifically the receive processor descrambles and despreads the symbols and then determines the most likely signal constellation points transmitted by the Node B based on the modulation scheme. These soft decisions may be based on channel estimates computed by the channel processor . The soft decisions are then decoded and deinterleaved to recover the data control and reference signals. The CRC codes are then checked to determine whether the frames were successfully decoded. The data carried by the successfully decoded frames will then be provided to a data sink which represents applications running in the UE and or various user interfaces e.g. display . Control signals carried by successfully decoded frames will be provided to a controller processor . When frames are unsuccessfully decoded by the receiver processor the controller processor may also use an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support retransmission requests for those frames.

In the uplink data from a data source and control signals from the controller processor are provided to a transmit processor . The data source may represent applications running in the UE and various user interfaces e.g. keyboard . Similar to the functionality described in connection with the downlink transmission by the Node B the transmit processor provides various signal processing functions including CRC codes coding and interleaving to facilitate FEC mapping to signal constellations spreading with OVSFs and scrambling to produce a series of symbols. Channel estimates derived by the channel processor from a reference signal transmitted by the Node B or from feedback contained in the midamble transmitted by the Node B may be used to select the appropriate coding modulation spreading and or scrambling schemes. The symbols produced by the transmit processor will be provided to a transmit frame processor to create a frame structure. The transmit frame processor creates this frame structure by multiplexing the symbols with information from the controller processor resulting in a series of frames. The frames are then provided to a transmitter which provides various signal conditioning functions including amplification filtering and modulating the frames onto a carrier for uplink transmission over the wireless medium through the antenna .

The uplink transmission is processed at the Node B in a manner similar to that described in connection with the receiver function at the UE . A receiver receives the uplink transmission through the antenna and processes the transmission to recover the information modulated onto the carrier. The information recovered by the receiver is provided to a receive frame processor which parses each frame and provides information from the frames to the channel processor and the data control and reference signals to a receive processor . The receive processor performs the inverse of the processing performed by the transmit processor in the UE . The data and control signals carried by the successfully decoded frames may then be provided to a data sink and the controller processor respectively. If some of the frames were unsuccessfully decoded by the receive processor the controller processor may also use an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support retransmission requests for those frames.

The controller processors and may be used to direct the operation at the Node B and the UE respectively. For example the controller processors and may provide various functions including timing peripheral interfaces voltage regulation power management and other control functions. The computer readable media of memories and may store data and software for the Node B and the UE respectively. A scheduler processor at the Node B may be used to allocate resources to the UEs and schedule downlink and or uplink transmissions for the UEs.

Several aspects of a telecommunications system have been presented with reference to a W CDMA system. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate various aspects described throughout this disclosure may be extended to other telecommunication systems network architectures and communication standards.

By way of example various aspects may be extended to other UMTS systems such as TD SCDMA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Packet Access Plus HSPA and TD CDMA. Various aspects may also be extended to systems employing Long Term Evolution LTE in FDD TDD or both modes LTE Advanced LTE A in FDD TDD or both modes CDMA2000 Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Ultra Wideband UWB Bluetooth and or other suitable systems. The actual telecommunication standard network architecture and or communication standard employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

In accordance with various aspects of the disclosure an element or any portion of an element or any combination of elements may be implemented with a processing system that includes one or more processors. Examples of processors include microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable logic devices PLDs state machines gated logic discrete hardware circuits and other suitable hardware configured to perform the various functionality described throughout this disclosure. One or more processors in the processing system may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions instruction sets code code segments program code programs subprograms software modules applications software applications software packages routines subroutines objects executables threads of execution procedures functions etc. whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise. The software may reside on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may be a non transitory computer readable medium. A non transitory computer readable medium includes by way of example a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip an optical disk e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. card stick key drive random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM a register a removable disk and any other suitable medium for storing software and or instructions that may be accessed and read by a computer. The computer readable medium may also include by way of example a carrier wave a transmission line and any other suitable medium for transmitting software and or instructions that may be accessed and read by a computer. The computer readable medium may be resident in the processing system external to the processing system or distributed across multiple entities including the processing system. The computer readable medium may be embodied in a computer program product. By way of example a computer program product may include a computer readable medium in packaging materials. Those skilled in the art will recognize how best to implement the described functionality presented throughout this disclosure depending on the particular application and the overall design constraints imposed on the overall system.

It is to be understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods disclosed is an illustration of exemplary processes. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods may be rearranged. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented unless specifically recited therein.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language of the claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. A phrase referring to at least one of a list of items refers to any combination of those items including single members. As an example at least one of a b or c is intended to cover a b c a and b a and c b and c and a b and c. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. 

