---

title: Recommending electronic content based upon user availability
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide a system, method, and program product for recommending a digital publication. A computing device identifies a time interval for consuming a digital publication, based on schedule information in an electronic calendar. The computing device determines, based on characteristics of the time interval and a criteria, a digital publication, from a plurality of digital publications, for human consumption within the identified time interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183523&OS=09183523&RS=09183523
owner: Lenovo Enterprise Solutions (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
number: 09183523
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20121221
---
The invention relates generally to the field of digital publications and more particularly to recommending a digital publication.

Digital publications such as electronic books ebooks magazines and journals are popular formats for individuals to download content to a computing device such as a mobile device and read while the individual is on the go. In some cases the individual has already begun reading an ebook and desires to continue reading the ebook selection. Mobile individuals in transition that desire additional electronic literature typically spend additional time manually searching for additional electronic content.

Ebooks are typically downloaded from an online website and stored locally on the computing device for subsequent viewing. An electronic reader ereader is required to view and or manipulate an ebook.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a system method and program product for recommending a digital publication. A computing device identifies a time interval for consuming a digital publication based on schedule information in an electronic calendar. The computing device determines based on characteristics of the time interval and a criteria a digital publication from a plurality of digital publications for human consumption within the identified time interval.

In certain embodiments the characteristics of the time interval include day of the week of the time interval context of the time interval start time and end time of the time interval whether the time interval is indicated as available or whether there is a time interval adjacent to the identified time interval that is indicated as available.

In other embodiments context includes purpose whether the time interval is reoccurring whether the time interval spans an entire day or whether there is a special notation associated with the time interval.

In still other embodiments the criteria includes a user profile a digital publication profile or a purchase price range of a digital publication.

In additional embodiments the user profile includes user age gender education health considerations commute schedule or digital publication recommendations.

In certain embodiments the digital publication profile includes genre author readability score type of publication prior downloaded digital publications digital publication consumption time estimate or historical digital publication consumption rate per unit of time.

In other embodiments the readability score is determined based on one or more of the Flesch formula Dale Chall formula Gunning fog index Fry readability graph G. Harry McLaughlin s Smog Readability Formula FORCAST formula a predetermined reading rate and a readability formula that measures the ease with which a publication can be read and understood by a human or that measures the suitability of a publication for reading understanding or both by a human.

In still other embodiments the computer determines based on the characteristics of the time interval and the criteria the extent of the human consumption possible within the identified time interval.

Digital publications such as electronic books ebooks journals and magazines are text and image based publications in digital form produced on published by and readable on a computing or other electronic device. Ebooks are often read on computing devices that utilize ebook reading software ereader . Personal computers mobile devices such as smart phones and tablet computers and other suitable devices may also be used for reading ebooks.

Users may not finish reading an ebook in a single sitting or reading session. Readers often need multiple reading sessions to finish reading an ebook. In some cases busy readers may have only a limited time that they can dedicate to reading an ebook in one session. In other cases a reader may have already started on an ebook or article and will pick up where they left off. However for those in transition looking for the next ebook or electronic publication epublication a portion of the time that could be allotted to reading is instead spent searching for content rather than utilizing that time for reading.

Readability is the ease in which text such as that contained in a digital publication can be read and understood by a user. There are a plurality of formulas that determine readability such as the Flesch formula Dale Chall formula Gunning fog index Fry readability graph G. Harry McLaughlin s Smog Readability Formula FORCAST formula. For example the Gunning fog index estimates the years of formal training i.e. the minimum required reading level needed to understand a particular text on a first reading. For example a Gunning fog index of 12 requires the reading level of a United States high school senior.

The Gunning fog index is calculated using equation 1 . words sentences complex words words 1 wherein I is the readability score and a complex word includes those words with three or more syllables but does not include proper nouns familiar jargon or compounds words. Furthermore a complex word neither includes common suffixes such as es ed or ing as a syllable.

In describing embodiments of the invention the phrases time interval and timeslot are used interchangeably. Digital publication and digital publication selection are also used interchangeably in describing embodiments of the invention.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code instructions embodied thereon.

Any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. Computer readable media may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of a computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on a user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The invention will now be described in detail with reference to the Figures. is a functional block diagram illustrating a digital publication predicting environment DPPE generally designated in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. DPPE includes computing device and servers and connected over network . Network can be for example a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or a combination of the two and can include wired wireless or fiber optic connections. In general network can be any combination of connections and protocols that will support communications between computing devices and .

Servers and are associated with network in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Servers and represent servers that provide software applications with services such as security data services transaction support load balancing and management of distributed systems to computing device .

Server includes digital publications and or digital publication suggestions. Digital publication suggestions can be based on recommendations for example those provided by a best seller listing an author s new related work or price range. In an embodiment of the invention server can be associated with a proprietary entity such as an online book store wherein digital publications are distributed for a fee. In another embodiment server may be associated with a non proprietary entity such as a public library whose distribution scheme is nonmonetary in nature.

Server includes preferences current and historic activities and recommendations associated with digital publications such as the title and or author of an associate s reading selection. Server provides social media applications to computing devices within DPPE such as computing device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Computing device represents a computing device utilized by a user to download access and or view a digital publication for example an ebook in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Computing device includes electronic calendar program schedule store digital publication store digital publication reader user profile store and digital publication recommending program . In an embodiment electronic calendar program is associated with schedule store an information repository that can include user specific schedule or contact information. Electronic calendar program represents software that includes an electronic calendar. Further schedule store includes a user s occupied and unoccupied timeslots and concomitant information such as durational information for example a New York City trip from 2 00 PM until 5 00 PM. In an embodiment schedule store includes a time interval and concomitant characteristics for example day of the week context start and or end time whether the time interval is indicated as available and or whether there is a time interval adjacent to an identified time interval that is indicated as available. For example context of a time interval can include purpose such as work personal or special event whether the time interval is recurring whether the time interval spans the entire day and or whether there is any special notation associated with that particular time interval or adjacent time interval. For example a human user is attending a conference in Las Vegas Nev. and their cloud based electronic calendar is unavailable before noon. The human user s cloud based electronic calendar reflects a 3 hour available time interval beginning at noon and no availability after 3 00 PM due to the human user traveling to White Plains N.Y. Here contextual information about the time slot includes the White Plains travel plans Las Vegas conference information and or the White Plains flight information.

Electronic calendar program can store via schedule store a user s schedule for example their work schedule leisure schedule reading schedule and or appointment schedule. In general electronic calendar program can be any calendaring software capable of storing a user s work schedule leisure schedule reading schedule and or appointment schedule according to an embodiment of the invention. Digital publication store is associated with digital publication reader and digital publication recommending program in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Digital publication store is an information repository that includes digital publications for example ebooks electronic publications and electronic articles and concomitant information for example genre author price information that reflects whether a particular digital publication is currently being accessed by the user and a user s reading progress as per a particular digital publication selection. In an embodiment digital publication store includes a digital publication profile. A digital publication profile includes genre author type of digital publication prior downloaded digital publication digital publication consumption time estimate or historical digital publication consumption rate per unit of time.

Although not shown digital publication store can include a plurality of information repositories. In an embodiment digital publication store is associated with network . Digital publication reader is included in computing device . Digital publication reader includes digital publication store in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Digital publication reader represents software utilized by a user to retrieve access via computing device and or view a digital publication within DPRP . Digital publication reader can retrieve via computing device a digital publication from for example server .

Further digital publication reader can store a digital publication for example in digital publication store . Further still digital publication reader can retrieve and access a digital publication for example digital publications included in digital publication store and server . Furthermore digital publication reader can display via computing device digital publications in the form of one or more pages. Digital publication reader may include a user interface not shown with which a user may access view and or manipulate a digital publication. In general digital publication reader can be any software that can retrieve access store and display digital publications in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

User profile store is included in computing device and associated with digital publication recommending program in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. User profile store represents an information repository that includes a user s digital publication preferences for example genre s price range and information reflecting a user predetermined reading education level. In an embodiment user profile store can include a user profile purchase price range of a digital publication and or total cost of a digital publication purchase. User profile includes a user age gender education health considerations commute schedule or digital publication recommendation.

DPRP included in computing device is associated with digital publication store user profile store and schedule store in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In an embodiment DPRP is software that determines the readability of a digital publication selection selection and comparing the determination to a user s time constraints as reflected in the user s calendar determines the extent to which the reader will be able to read the selection within a particular period of time and determine alternative selections in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In an embodiment DPRP is software that identifies a time interval for consuming a digital publication based on schedule information in an electronic calendar and determines based characteristics of the time interval and a criteria a digital publication from a plurality of digital publications for human consumption within the identified time interval.

DPRP includes user profile store . DPRP can determine a user s ability to read a portion of a desired digital publication such as a chapter. DPRP can determine a readability score defined above of a digital publication included in for example digital publication store and or server . In an embodiment DPRP can determine the reading level of a book and comparing to a user s time constraints e.g. determined from their calendar determine if the user will have free time to complete a portion of a digital publication in a given period of time and to possibly make an alternate reading recommendation. In an embodiment DPRP can identify a time interval for consuming a digital publication based on schedule information included in an electronic calendar for example schedule information included in schedule store and determine based on characteristics of the time interval and concomitant criteria included in schedule store a digital publication from a plurality of digital publication included in digital publication store and or server for human consumption within the identified time interval included in electronic calendar program .

For example criteria can include the user profile digital publication profile or purchase price range of a digital publication. Purchase price range of a digital publication reflects the preferred purchase price range for a single digital publication recommended by DPRP and or the preferred price range for the total cost of a plurality of digital publications recommended by DPRP .

In an additional embodiment DPRP can determine an alternative selection. DPRP can access schedule store digital publication store and digital publication store . In addition DPRP can access servers and . DPRP can access social media applications and concomitant information for example digital publication recommendations included in server . Furthermore DPRP can determine a user s availability.

Concepts introduced in the following discussions of will be used further in the discussion of in the context of digital publication predicting environment of . illustrates an example wherein a user has a finite amount of free time to read a particular digital publication on a particular day and DPRP determines the reader s ability to consume the digital publication within the allotted time frame. Specifically depicts three exemplary illustrations a user s calendar the contents of digital publication store and output of DPRP labeled A B and C respectively in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Illustration A is a depiction of the reader s schedule included in schedule store that reflects an available three hour timeslot on Friday May 2 2012 from 2 00 PM until 5 00 PM. To begin the user executes digital publication reader and selects by Charlotte Bront the selection for reading. DPRP determines that the user has made the selection and the date and time of the selection schedule information 2 00 PM on Friday May 2 2012. In addition DPRP determines that the user has an available time interval from 2 00 PM until 5 00 PM for a total of three hours unoccupied time during a trip to New York City characteristic of the time interval . In an alternative example DPRP identifies 2 00 PM until 5 00 PM on Friday May 2012 as a time interval for consuming a digital publication. Subsequently DPRP accesses the selection included in digital publication reader and determines the extent to which the user can consume the selection during the available time interval.

For example DPRP determines the readility score RS such as the Gunning fog index of the selection and compares it to the users predefined education level EDU . If DPRP determines that EDU is greater than or equal to RS i.e. user has sufficient education to read the selection then DPRP determines progress utilizing the average reading rate ARR 300 words per minute and equation 2 . ARR 2 wherein Wis the amount of words one can read within time T.

Subsequently DPRP converts Winto pages of the selection. For example a Wof 54 000 words corresponds to 120 pages in the selection for a selection formatted with 450 words per page. If DPRP determines that EDU is less than RS user does not have sufficient education to render the selection suitable for example suitability of a selection can mean the ease at which a reader can read and comprehend the selection and or the satisfaction that the reader can expect to derive from the selection then DPRP displays a warning and determines an alternative digital publication selection alternative selection . In another embodiment if DPRP determines that EDU is less than RS then DPRP displays both a warning and the selection and determines an alternative selection.

DPRP determines the genre of the selection accesses digital publications included in digital publication store illustration 2B and determines which digital publications are of the same similar genre as the selection alternative selection determines the estimated progress for the alternative selection and displays the alternative selection and determined estimated progress. In an alternative example DPRP determines the digital publications depicted in illustration 2B based on characteristics of the time interval New York Trip on Friday May 2 2012 from 2 00 PM until 5 00 PM included in schedule store a user profile defined above included in user profile store digital publication profile associated with the selection such as genre Gothic fiction and author Charlotte Bront and preferred purchase price range such as twenty dollars included in digital publication store . In particular DPRP determines estimated progress in illustration C utilizing equation 2 discussed above.

In an example digital publications are included in digital publication store and or server . DPRP can determine an alternative selection by accessing the digital publication suggestions included in servers and . Here DPRP communicates for example using an application programming interface with an application included in server and determines recently highly downloaded digital publications of a similar the same genre included in digital publication store and displays the title and author of the determined digital publications.

Illustration 2C is a snapshot of the selection and alternative selections displayed via computing device by DPRP . Illustration 2C includes the time date and duration of the available time interval. Illustration 2C also includes a first option the user s current selection by Charlotte Bront and a determined progress estimate chapters 5 10 within three hours. Illustration 2C also includes a first alternative selection by Homer and a determined progress chapters 1 3 within three hours. Illustration 2C also includes a second alternative selection wherein the user may consume a portion chapters 5 8 of the first option by Charlotte Bront within two hours and a portion chapter one of the first alternative selection by Homer within one hour.

In an alternative embodiment DPRP may re analyze the selection based on for example whether updates occur to the user profile digital publication profile purchase price range for a digital publication computing device usage or internet connectivity during the available time interval. In an additional embodiment DPRP may re analyze the selection based on for example whether the user has a subsequent activity and or event scheduled the purchase price of the alternative selection availability of a selection or user health considerations. For example user health considerations can include biometric gathered data or user provided data on heart rate blood pressure and or stress levels.

However if DPRP determines that the user has sufficient education to render the selection suitable yes branch decisional then DPRP executes step discussed above . Subsequently DPRP displays the digital publication and concomitant progress step determines an alternative digital publication selection for the user step . Subsequently DPRP displays the alternative digital publication selection and concomitant determined progress step .

Computing device includes communications fabric which provides communications between computer processor s memory persistent storage communications unit and input output I O interface s . Communications fabric can be implemented with any architecture designed for passing data and or control information between processors such as microprocessors communications and network processors etc. system memory peripheral devices and any other hardware components within a system. For example communications fabric can be implemented with one or more buses.

Memory and persistent storage are computer readable storage media. In this embodiment memory includes random access memory RAM and cache memory . In general memory can include any suitable volatile or non volatile computer readable storage media.

DPRP is stored in persistent storage for execution by one or more of the respective computer processors via one or more memories of memory . In this embodiment persistent storage includes a magnetic hard disk drive. Alternatively or in addition to a magnetic hard disk drive persistent storage can include a solid state hard drive a semiconductor storage device read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory or any other computer readable storage media that is capable of storing program instructions or digital information.

The media used by persistent storage may also be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage . Other examples include optical and magnetic disks thumb drives and smart cards that are inserted into a drive for transfer onto another computer readable storage medium that is also part of persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices including application server . In these examples communications unit includes one or more network interface cards. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links. DPRP may be downloaded to persistent storage through communications unit .

I O interface s allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to server computer . For example I O interface may provide a connection to external devices such as a keyboard keypad a touch screen and or some other suitable input device. External devices can also include portable computer readable storage media such as for example thumb drives portable optical or magnetic disks and memory cards. Software and data used to practice embodiments of the invention e.g. DPRP can be stored on such portable computer readable storage media and can be loaded onto persistent storage via I O interface s . I O interface s also connect to a display .

The programs described herein are identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature herein is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

