---

title: Presenting information related to content items
abstract: An electronic device may present an interface providing information related to one or more content items. For example, the interface may present representations related to a plurality of content items to indicate relative values among the content items of at least one metric. Additionally, each representation may further indicate at least one of a quality of the value of the metric or a different metric value. A user may navigate the interface to more specific or more general views for a particular metric, characteristic and/or category, and may use the interface to view more information about a selected content item. Alternatively, the representations may represent, or may be arranged according to, authors, publishers, genres, etc. In some examples, the representations may represent terms obtained from content items that satisfy one or more metrics, such as terms that occur in content items sold within a specified period of time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372592&OS=09372592&RS=09372592
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09372592
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120924
---
The continued proliferation of digital content items has led to an increase in the availability of such content items as well as an increase in the availability of electronic devices and applications used for consuming these content items. For instance users may consume textual content items such as electronic books eBooks and other types of content items on an assortment of electronic devices. As the number of content items and devices for consuming content items continues to increase users are ever more interested in enhancing their experiences while acquiring and consuming these content items. Further content providers continue to seek ways to provide information about content items to those interested.

This disclosure includes techniques and arrangements for presenting information related to content items. For instance an electronic device may present an interface on a display. In some examples the interface may provide information related to a plurality of content items such as sales information recent use information annotation information user review rating information author information publisher information trending information and so forth. For example the interface may present information showing how a plurality of content items compare to one another according to one or more metrics. The interface may further provide information as to a rate of change of the one or more metrics over time for each of the content items or other quality of each metric.

As one example suppose that a user of an electronic device is shopping for a content item and would like to determine which content items rank high in sales which content items have been recently open on devices of other users which content items are currently trending on at least one online location such as on social networks or microblogs which content items have been browsed or purchased recently by other users having similar interests or reading habits or any of numerous other possible metrics. The user may access an interface that provides visualization of a plurality of content items relative to one another based on one or more selected metrics characteristics categories genres and the like. For instance if the user is only interested in romance and science fiction content items the user may filter out or remove from the interface information related to other content items that are not categorized in those two categories. In some examples the interface may include a plurality of representations of content items and each representation may provide an indication of a value of at least one metric with respect to the represented content item. For instance an area or size of a representation relative to the area or size of the other representations may indicate relative values of the at least one metric for the corresponding content items. Additionally in some examples the representations may further provide an indication of a quality of the value of the particular metric such as a recent rate of change of the value of the particular metric for each content item. In addition the user may be able to navigate within the interface to a personalized or customized view such as a view that exclusively shows representations of content items in the romance category and or the science fiction category.

In some examples the representations may be grouped in the interface according to categories such as genre categories Dewey decimal categories Library of Congress classification categories or other categorization schemes taxonomies and the like. Further the user may have the option to select among a number of different categorization techniques in the interface. In addition in some examples the interface may enable the user to select among individual categories to be displayed in the interface or filtered out from the interface. For instance following selection of one or more categories to be excluded the interface may rearrange and or resize the representations for the remaining categories to fill a representation area of the interface. Thus the size of each category or subcategory presented in the interface may be related to the values of the selected metric as well. For example the size of a block or boarder around each category may be relative to the sizes of the other categories based on the selected metric. Furthermore the interface may enable a user to advance or navigate among various categories subcategories and representations of content items. For example a user may select a representation of a particular content item to view more information about the content item and or to make a purchase of the content item.

Additionally in some examples the interface may provide representations that correspond to authors or publishers of content items rather than the content items themselves. For example the user may select an author view in which each representation in the interface represents one or more metrics for an author relative to other authors represented by other representations displayed in the interface. Accordingly the user may be able to determine visually which authors have had the largest number of sales of all their works over a certain period of time which authors are currently being read on other user devices which authors have the highest user review ratings and so forth. Representations for publishers may be similarly represented in the interface by selection of a publisher view.

Furthermore in some examples a content provider may determine a plurality of terms that are significant in a particular content item such as significant character names topics organizations places things and the like. The content provider may aggregate the terms identified across a plurality of content items for determining a frequency of each term in the plurality of the content items. In some examples the identified terms may be weighted according to other metrics such as total sales for each content item over a period of time for determining a significance of each term relative to the other terms. The relative significance of the terms for a particular metric may be presented in an interface by a plurality of representations. For example a size of a representation for each term may indicate a relative value of a metric for the term compared to the value for the metric for the other terms. The representations may further indicate a metric quality such as a rate of change of the metric over a period of time e.g. whether the significance of the term is increasing decreasing or has remained about the same.

For discussion purposes some example implementations are described in the environment of presenting an interface for visualizing information related to content items. However the implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples provided and may be extended to other types of interface configurations other types of representations and other types of content items as will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

In some types of electronic devices the display may be a touch sensitive display configured with a sensor to sense a touch input received from an input effecter such as a finger of a user a stylus or the like. Thus the touch sensitive display may receive one or more touch inputs stylus inputs selections of text selections of interface components and so forth. In other implementations the display may be non touch sensitive. Accordingly in addition to or as an alternative to a touch sensitive display the electronic device may include various external controls and input devices. For example some implementations not shown in of the electronic device may include a virtual or physical keyboard a mouse a pointing stick a touchpad a trackball a joystick a remote control buttons and or various other controls for performing various desired inputs and interactions with the electronic device and the interface presented on the display . Additionally in some implementations one or more voice commands may be used to control or interact with the interfaces or content items herein. Further in some examples a user s eye position or point of focus may be detected to serve as inputs or commands. Thus implementations herein are not limited to any type of input devices techniques or controls.

In some cases the one or more content items may be physical books or electronic books eBooks including one or more pages of text and possibly also including images illustrations tables maps graphic elements embedded multimedia content and so forth. Thus the terms book and or eBook as used herein may broadly include printed works as well as electronic or digital representations of printed works that may include text images multimedia hypertext and or hypermedia. Examples of content items may include but are not limited to books magazines newspapers periodicals journals reference materials textbooks anthologies instruction manuals proceedings of meetings forms directories web pages plays screen plays closed captioning transcripts of movies and television shows song lyrics and so forth. The content items herein may additionally or alternatively be other types of content items including music songs audio books videos movies television shows games and the like.

In the illustrated example of suppose that a user has accessed the interface and is presented with a content item view of the interface . Other possible view selections in this example may include an author view and a publisher view . The content item view may present a plurality of the representations corresponding to a plurality of content items in a representation area . In this example each representation is in the form of a rectangle which may include squares the size of which may be relative to others of the representations based on one or more characteristics or metrics of the content item that the representation represents. For example a larger sized rectangle may indicate a larger value for a particular metric such as total sales highest ranked reviews number of the content items recently open on user devices and so forth. Accordingly in the content item view each of the representations in the representation area may represent a different content item and the relative size of the representation may convey information as to a value of a particular metric with respect to the corresponding content item . Similarly as discussed below if the author view is selected the representations may each correspond to a different author and a size of the each representation may indicate a value of a particular metric for the particular author relative to other authors represented by the other representations . Likewise if the publisher view is selected each representation may represent a particular publisher and the size of the representation relative to other representations may represent a value of a particular metric for the publisher in comparison with a value of that metric for other publishers.

The representations may be further grouped or organized according to one or more characteristics taxonomies classifications or other categories as indicated at . In the illustrated example the representations are grouped according to a genre classification or genre category . Other example groupings in this example include a grouping according to Library of Congress classification system or a grouping according to the Dewey decimal classification system . Additional examples not show in may include BISAC Book Industry Standards and Communication subject codes Colon classification categories OCLC Online Computer Library Center category codes and the like. Various other types of categories taxonomies or groupings may also be displayed in the interface as discussed herein or as will be apparent to those of skill in the art having the benefit of the disclosure herein with the foregoing being just several examples.

In this example a plurality of genre categories or groupings of the representations are displayed in the interface including arts biographies business computers technology cooking food education reference fiction literature health fitness history humor entertainment mystery politics religion inspirational romance science fiction fantasy self help sports teen textbooks thriller suspense and travel . The boundary between each category may be clearly delineated in the representation area by boundary lines and thus a user may easily determine visually which representations correspond to which genre category.

Furthermore as indicated at the user may unselect one or more categories to personalize or customize the view presented by the interface . For example the categories also may be listed to one side of the representation area along with a selection box adjacent to each category name. Thus when the adjacent selection box is selected the corresponding category and associated representations may be displayed in the representation area . On the other hand if user unselects a selection box adjacent to one or more category names those categories and associated representations are not displayed in the representation area .

In the illustrated example suppose that the user has unselected a children s books category and a comics category . Accordingly these categories and associated representations are not displayed in the representations area in the example of . A scroll bar may be included in the interface to enable a user to scroll down to select or unselect various other categories discussed above and or other categories. Furthermore when a particular category is not presented in the interface the remaining categories may be resized relative to one another to fill the presentation area . Additionally as mentioned above the relative sizes of each category in the interface may be in proportion or based at least in part on the value of a selected metric with respect to each category. As one example in the case that the metric is total sales the category romance is proportionally larger than the other categories which represents that more content items were sold in this category over a particular period of time than in the other categories currently presented in the representation area .

In other examples the representations may not be grouped according to categories. For example the user may deselect the organize by subject option at . In this case the representations may be presented based on relative size such as for a selected number of representations as discussed below. For instance the user may wish to view the top 25 best selling content items over the past week regardless of category or genre. Further the user may still filter out content items in certain categories such as by selecting or deselecting from the list of categories . Numerous other selection options are discussed below.

In addition a user may select a particular representation to obtain additional information. For example suppose that the user selects the representation such as by tapping on clicking on or otherwise performing a user input to select the representation . The selected representation may be highlighted or otherwise visually distinguished from the other representations in the representation area . Furthermore a pop up window interface or label may also be displayed in association with the selected representation . For instance the popup window or label may identify a title of the content item and or an author of the content item . Additionally in some examples the label may include additional information about the content item such as a description a synopsis user review rating purchase price a link to purchase the content item or the like. Alternatively in some examples the user may double tap double click or otherwise perform further input with respect to at least one of the representation or the label to access the additional information about the content item such as to access a webpage webview or pop up interface to view the additional information about the content item. In either case the user may then choose to purchase the content item or may close the pop up interface to return to the interface to view information related to other content items .

Additionally in the example of a pattern or color of the representation may indicate a rate of change in the selected metric. For example the pattern or color may indicate whether the number of sales has increased over the period of time decreased over the period of time or remained relatively stagnant during the period of time. As one nonlimiting example as indicated at a first pattern such as vertical hatch lines or a first color such as light red or bright red may indicate a large decrease in the metric as indicated at a second pattern such as darker vertical hatch lines or a second color such as dark red may indicate a smaller decrease in the metric than as indicated at a third pattern such as solid shading or a third color such as black may indicate there was little change in the value of the metric over the period of time as indicated at a fourth pattern such as diagonal crosshatching with a dark lines or a fourth color such as dark green may indicate an increase in the metric over the period of time and as indicated at a fifth pattern such as diagonal crosshatching with lighter lines or a fifth color such as light or bright green may indicate a larger change in the metric than . Further while five gradations are described for the graphic effect in this example in other examples there may be a larger or smaller number of gradations or there may be smooth transitions between the colors patterns and the like. For example any of a brightness lightness or intensity of the color may distinguish a greater rate of change from a lesser rate of change or any other suitable graphic effects may be employed.

Accordingly a user may select a very bright green representation to view information about a content item whose metric has increased substantially over a period of time. For example if the metric is total sales this content item may be a content item whose sales popularity is rapidly increasing. On the other hand a content item that is bright red may be a content item whose sales popularity is rapidly decreasing even though the size of the representation may be substantially larger than many other representations displayed in the representation area . Furthermore the example patterns and or colors are mere examples for discussion purposes and numerous other patterns colors graphic schemes color schemes graphic elements or other graphic effects will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein. Thus the examples herein are not limited to any particular graphic effect such as a graphic scheme color scheme or graphic element and indeed some implementations may enable the user to select various different graphic effects to be applied to the representations . For example the user may access an interface or menu to select various colors patterns graphic elements or the like to be applied to the representations .

The recently open metric may indicate which content items have been recently open on electronic devices of other users according to the most recently gathered information. For example a content provider may receive information from a plurality of user electronic devices indicating which content items have been open on the electronic devices . In some cases the electronic devices may periodically report synchronizing information back to the content provider indicating a current position of a user in a content item open on the device . The content provider may aggregate this information received from multiple devices to determine which content items have been open recently on a plurality of devices and thereby determine relative numbers of each different content item recently open on the user devices such as by determining how many instances of each different content item have been recently open. In some examples the determination of content items open on devices may be made in near real time depending on how often user content item information is communicated from the devices while in other examples the recently open information may have some lag if the user content item information from the devices is communicated less frequently.

As another example the content provider may maintain an online site or presence such as a merchant website to enable users to view information about content items such as for deciding whether to purchase one or more of the content items . Accordingly as indicated at the content provider may keep track of which content items offered by the content provider are browsed or viewed most often by users who access the content provider site. The content provider may provide in the interface information regarding the relative number of content items that are browsed or viewed on the site. Thus a user may view this information in the interface by selecting the metric for most viewed on site .

As still another example when users make annotations to content items on their electronic devices the annotations may be conveyed back to the content provider to enable the content provider to synchronize the annotations to one or more other devices of the user. For instance annotations may include highlighting made to text of a content item any notes or comments added to a content item by a user bookmarks added to a content item by the user or the like. The content provider may aggregate information about annotations made to various different content items by a plurality of users and may present this information in a visual representation such as in interface . Thus a user may select the most annotated metric to view in the interface the relative proportions of annotations to the various content items. For example the most annotated content items may be represented by larger rectangles than content items that have received fewer annotations.

In addition the trending metric may indicate which content items are trending on at least one online location such a website or web feed e.g. at least one of a social network e.g. Facebook a microblog site e.g. Twitter an RSS really simple syndication feed a news feed or the like. The content provider may monitor one or more sites feeds or the like to determine which content items are being discussed or are otherwise trending at the various online locations. The user may select the trending metric to view the representations configured according to the values of this metric .

Additionally the user review rating metric may indicate the relative rankings of content items based on user review ratings received by the content provider over a period of time. For example a larger representation may correspond to a content item that received higher review ratings from users over the period of time than a smaller representation even though the smaller representation may correspond to a content item that has sold many more copies than the content item corresponding to the larger representation. In some examples a threshold number of reviews may be required to avoid a situation in which a content item that has only received one or two reviews is inaccurately represented.

For any of the metrics or for other metrics not included in this example the size of a representation may indicate a relative value of a selected metric and the pattern or color of the representation may indicate a rate of change in the metric over a period of time e.g. that the value is increasing decreasing or has remained about the same or other metric quality of the metric. Alternatively as mentioned above the pattern or color of a representation may be used to convey information about a different metric than the metric represented by the size of the representation . In some examples as discussed above the size or area of the representation may indicate a total number of sales of the content item over a period of time while the pattern or color of the representation may indicate any of recently open most viewed most annotated trending user review rating or any of various other metrics. For instance the representation may be the largest representation in the representation area indicating that the representation corresponds to the content item that had the largest number of sales over a period of time such as during the most recent week. Furthermore when a second metric such as user review rating is selected the representation may be colored bright green which may indicate that the corresponding content item had higher overall reviews than other content items corresponding to representations in the representation area that are dark green black dark red or bright red which may represent an order of decreasing review rating. Additionally while five gradations of patterns or colors are discussed in this example any number of gradations may be applied such as 2 gradations 10 gradations 15 gradations or no gradations i.e. smooth transitions from one gradation e.g. color to the next .

In some cases a user may be able to customize or personalize the interface or any of the other interfaces discussed herein such as by skewing values applied to the displayed representations to be more representative of people that share one or more user characteristics or user attributes with the current user. For instance suppose that the current user has certain reading habits such as preferring romance novels and arts books and has not purchasing any biographies science fiction or mystery books. The interface may be personalized to represent content item information gathered from other users that share at least one characteristic with the current user. In this case the content provider may present information in the interface collected from people with purchase histories similar to the current user people who have provided reviews similar to the current user etc. Thus when the user selects a people like you option the content provider may determine at least one attribute of the current user and may present the information based on the at least one user attribute. For example when total sales ranking is the metric for the representations the interface may only present sales information collected from users who share the at least one user attribute with the current user such as preferring romance novels and arts books.

In some cases the one or more user attributes for a user may be determined automatically by the content provider from user interaction with the content provider such as purchases made items viewed demographic information reviews of content items and the like. Additionally or alternatively as indicated at the user may manually provide attribute information to the content provider to enable a more accurate representation in the interface . For example the user may select a link at to access an interface to enter attribute information such as user preferences for types of content items demographic information and so forth.

Further as indicated at in some or all of the interfaces described herein the user may manually search for a particular content item or a subcategory of content items. For instance in some examples if the display resolution permits each representation may include the title of the content item. However in other examples on some or none of the representations may include the title such as in the case in which the display has a small form factor or has a resolution that is too low to permit the display of the title in each representation . Thus rather than having to tap on or click each representation in what may be hundreds of displayed representations in the interface the user may enter some or all of the name of a content item or a subcategory in which the content item may be included to have the representation or subcategory highlighted. For instance in response to the search at one or more representations may be highlighted in the representation area one or more labels may be displayed in the representation area and so forth.

Furthermore the user may navigate the view in the representation area to a particular subcategory to a sub subcategory or the like. As one example the user may select a category in the list of categories such as by tapping double clicking or the like to have that category displayed in the representation area . As another example the user may unselect all of the other categories using the selection boxes while leaving a desired category selected. As still another example in the case of a touch sensitive display the user may use a reverse pinch in the area of the particular category to zoom in on a desired category or the user may tap on the title for the desired category to select or maximize the particular category.

Upon selection of the science fiction subcategory the interface may further present additional subcategories of the selected subcategory . In this example the additional subcategories may include alien invasion alternative history alternative universe hard science fiction military science fiction post apocalyptic post modern punk scientific romance space opera soft science fiction sword planet and time travel . Accordingly the representations from the science fiction subcategory may be automatically reorganized and relatively sized into the additional subcategories which may be delineated by the borderlines . The subcategories may also be represented in a navigation and preference menu on the side of the interface . Thus the interface in this example now displays only a subset of the representations that were previously displayed when additional categories were selected.

Furthermore in some examples additional representations may be added to the representation area for one or more of the additional subcategories . For example due to space limitations screen resolution limitations or the like of the display when displaying the initial interface as discussed above with respect to a limited number of content items for each category may be displayed such as based on sales ranking in each category or various other metrics that may be selected by the user. However as a user drills down in the interface to subcategories and sub subcategories additional representations corresponding to additional content items may be displayed in the representation area . For example in the case that the representations correspond to sales ranking additional representations corresponding to content items having lower sales ranking than those displayed in the previous versions of the interface in may be included in interface when particular subcategories are displayed. As discussed above the user may select one or more of the representations to view additional information corresponding to the selected representation. For instance a popup interface or label may be displayed in response to the selection of one of the representations as discussed above with respect to .

In the example of the interface or any of the other interfaces discussed herein may include the ability for the user to select a period of time to which the selected metrics may apply. The user may select one of the time periods to be applied to the metric corresponding to the displayed representations such as applying the metric over the past year past month past week or any other suitable time period option. Alternatively in some examples the user may be provided with an entry box to enable entry of a desired time period a range of dates or the like. Accordingly in the illustrated example the sales ranking metric is selected and thus the size of the representations may correspond to the sales rank of each content item relative to the other content items corresponding to the other representations displayed in the representation area over the selected period of time which in the illustrated example is the past week . Further the selectable options controls and features displayed in the interfaces herein such as for selecting metrics selecting time periods selecting categories and the like may be included in any of the interfaces discussed herein and are not limited to the specific examples illustrated.

The example of further includes a color key or pattern key for indicating to the user the meaning of the various different graphic effects such as patterns or colorations of the representations . In this example the color key indicates that the light vertical line hatching pattern bright red corresponds to a minus 5 or greater change in the metric dark vertical line hatching pattern dark red corresponds to a minus 2 change in the metric black corresponds to a 0 change in the metric dark diagonal crosshatching dark green indicates a plus 2 change in the metric and light diagonal crosshatching bright green indicates a plus 5 or greater change in the metric. In this example the color key corresponds to a rate of change in the selected metric i.e. sales ranking . The percentages above are merely examples for discussion purposes and any other suitable percentages may be used in other examples.

Additionally in other examples a different metric may be represented by the coloration patterns or other graphic effects of the representations . For example the user may select any of the other metrics described herein such as most annotated user review rating and so forth to be represented by the coloration or patterns of the representations . Thus in the case that user review rating is selected bright red may indicate a one star rating dark red may indicate a two star rating black may indicate a three star rating dark green may indicate a four star rating and bright green may indicate a five star rating such as on a five star rating scale.

In addition the interface and or the other interfaces described herein may include an option for a user to specify a price range a maximum price a minimum price or the like for content items related to the information displayed in the representation area . For example suppose that the user desires to pay no more than 5 for a content item. As indicated at the user may select an option to filter the representations in the representation area based on price. Further as indicated at in some examples the user may be able to enter a desired price limit or price range. In other examples a dropdown menu or other functionality may be provided by the interface to enable the user to specify a price limit or price range. Thus when the user has specified a maximum price limit such as 5 the representations presented in the representation area may correspond only to content items that are priced at or below 5 i.e. below the specified price limit or within the specified price range in addition to any other filters or selections made by the user.

Additionally the interface and or the other interfaces described herein may include an option for a user to specify a reading level of the content items corresponding to the representations displayed in the representation area . For example as indicated at the user may select an option to specify the reading level of the content items such as 6 12 12 18 college level etc. Further as indicated at the interface may include a dropdown menu or other functionality to enable the user to specify a particular reading level for the content items. Thus when the user has specified a particular reading level the representations presented in the representation area may correspond only to content items that are classified as being within the specified reading level in addition to any other filters or selections made by the user. For instance the content provider may maintain sufficient metadata for the content items to enable identification of the reading level of each content item .

Furthermore the interface and or the other interfaces described herein may include an option for a user to specify a level of adult content of the content items corresponding to the representations displayed in the representation area . For example as indicated at the user may select an option to specify the level of adult content in the content items. Further as indicated at the interface may include a dropdown menu or other functionality to enable the user to specify a particular level of adult content for the content items. Thus when the user has specified a particular adult content level such as no adult content moderate adult content erotica etc. the representations presented in the representation area may correspond only to content items that are classified as being within the specified level of adult content in addition to any other filters or selections made by the user. For instance the content provider may maintain sufficient metadata for the content items to enable identification of the amount of adult content in each content item .

As mentioned above in some or all examples of the interfaces herein the user may limit the information displayed to one or more specified geographic regions. Thus as indicated at in the illustrated example the user has limited the displayed metric to a particular geographic location which is Seattle Wash. in this example. Accordingly the information displayed in the interface regarding the most annotated content items may be further limited to those content items that have annotated by users who are located in the Seattle Wash. area. The other metrics discussed herein such as sales rankings recently open most viewed trending and user review rating may be similarly limited to one or more specified geographic regions or locations. Additionally in some examples rather than entering text for a location the user may select a metro area or other location from a menu such as from a dropdown menu a popup menu a map or the like.

Furthermore in this example the user may specify how many representations are displayed in the representation area . Thus the user may specify display of representations corresponding to the top 500 content items for the selected subcategory the top 100 content items or the top 25 content items as several examples. In the illustrated example the user has selected the top 500 content items to be displayed in the representation area . Accordingly the representation area includes 500 representations corresponding to 500 different content items with the representations having various sizes and colorations according to corresponding values for the selected metric while being limited to determining the metric values from data collected from the Seattle area. Furthermore the user has selected a time period of all time rather than the past year past month or past week . In addition in this example titles of content items may be displayed in the representations where a size of the representation permits room for a legible title. Accordingly based on a size of the display a resolution of the display or the like titles may be displayed in the representations such as Title 1 through Title 18 in this example.

In the example of the romance category is divided into a plurality of additional categories such as anthologies contemporary erotica fantasy futuristic gothic historical multicultural regency religious romantic suspense time travel vampires western and writing . Further the relative size of each representation of a subcategory relative to the other subcategories may be proportional to a value of a selected metric which in this example is sale ranking i.e. how many content items in each subcategory have been sold within the past week. For instance the contemporary romance category and the historical romance category may have recorded more sales than the gothic romance category or the western romance category within the past week.

Further the representations may have a graphic effect such as being color coded having a pattern or other graphic element to indicate a quality of a selected metric or a value of different metric. For example the erotica romance representation in this example is colored a bright green or has a first pattern to indicate a substantial increase in sales over the previous week while the vampires representation may be colored bright red or may have a different second pattern to indicate a substantial decrease in sales during the past week as compared with a previous week.

Alternatively the graphic effect may represent a different metric for each subcategory such as a number of each content item in the subcategory open on user devices within a period of time a number of views of each content item in the subcategory on at least one website a number of annotations made to each content item a frequency with which each content item in the subcategory is mentioned on at least one online location or a ranking of each content item in the subcategory based at least in part on user review ratings. Alternatively in other examples the graphic effect may not be included.

As discussed above the user may zoom in on select or otherwise enlarge one or more categories . For example the user may select a particular category and view additional information within the selected category. The user may select a particular category by using the navigation and preference menu as discussed above or by selecting a particular category using an input device a touch input reverse pinch or the like.

Should the user desire to zoom in or advance further in the interface such as by selecting or zooming in on the historical romance category then in some examples the user may be presented with additional categories. In other examples such as when there are no additional categories the user may be presented with representations of content items in each of the sub subcategories . In the later case the user may be presented with an interface similar to that discussed above with respect to . Alternatively in some cases the user may deselect the genre view and select the content item view to be presented with an interface similar to that shown in but with the subcategories of . Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein.

In addition the time period for the selected metric in this example may be now as indicated at . For example the determination of what content items have been recently open on a plurality of user devices may be based on data collected over a recent period of time such as within the last several hours or the like. Alternatively the user may select other time periods such as the past year past month or past week to see an indication of content items that have been open on user devices over those time periods. Similar to the examples discussed above the user may select one of the representations to view additional information about the corresponding content item such as a synopsis of the content item user review ratings purchase information or the like.

Furthermore in this example the representations may also provide an indication of a rate of change of the selected metric over the selected period of time. For instance when the representation title is in italics as indicated at this may indicate that there has been an increase in the rate of opening of the corresponding content item whereas when the title is underlined as indicated at this may indicate that there has been a decrease in the rate of the opening of the corresponding content item on devices. When the title is neither italicized nor underlined as indicated at this may indicate that there has been no substantial change in the rate of users opening the content item on their devices. Alternatively or additionally the representations may be color coded or have other graphic effects in the manner described above. For example a bright green coloration may indicate a substantial increase in the rate of change of a selected metric a bright red coloration may indicate a substantial decrease in the rate of change of the selected metric and a black coloration may indicate little change over the time period for the selected metric. Various other gradations in coloration also may be provided in between the bright red and bright green extremes such as darker red and darker green as discussed above. Furthermore while particular coloration schemes are described herein such as based on brightness intensity lightness darkness and so forth numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein. Accordingly implementations herein are not limited to any particular graphic effects such as color schemes graphics schemes text types or the like.

Additionally rather than identifiers of content items in the author view the representations may be author names in the publisher view the representations may be publisher names and in term view the representations may be terms obtained from content items as discussed below. Furthermore the representations may be arranged in the representation area according to categories such as a genre categories Library of Congress categorization Dewey decimal categorization or any other suitable categorization or grouping for the respective content items authors publishers or terms as discussed above such as with respect to .

Furthermore the user may customize or personalize the representations such as by selecting a people like you option that limits the representations displayed in the representation area to data correlated to other users sharing at least one attribute with the current user. For example if sales ranking is selected as a metric for the representation the calculation of total sales for a particular author may only be counted for people who share a specified attribute with the current user. Furthermore as indicated at the user may enter an author name into a search window to locate a representation that corresponds to a particular author .

As one example a user may select one of the representations such as representation . For instance the user may tap on click on or otherwise indicate a selection of the representation in the interface which may result in the selected representation being highlighted or otherwise visually distinguished from the other representations . The selection of the representation may also result in the display of a pop up window interface or label . The label may include the name of the author and an identification of one or more content items that have been written by the selected author . For example label may list the title of each content item written by the corresponding author . Thus the size of the representation may correspond to a metric for all of the content items of an author such as in this example a sales ranking over a period of time of all of the content items written by an author . Furthermore as discussed above the representation may include a fill pattern coloration or other graphic effect to indicate at least one of a rate of change of a selected metric or alternatively a value of a different metric. For instance in some cases the fill may indicate whether sales of the corresponding author have increased or decreased over the period of time. In other cases the fill may indicate a different metric such as reviews of the author s work whether the author or the author s works are trending or any of the other metrics described herein.

Additionally in some examples the representation area may include multiple representations for the same author such as in different category groupings. For example an author may have written one or more content items in a first category such as romance and the same author may also have written one or more other content items in a different category such as fiction literature . Thus the number of representations displayed for a particular author may depend on the categorization scheme applied to the interface and the types of content items written by the author.

In other examples the representations of authors may not be grouped according to categories. For example the user may deselect the organize by subject option at . In this case the representations may be presented in the representation area based on relative size such as for a selected number of representations as discussed above but not further organized or categorized. For example the user may wish to view the top 25 bestselling authors over the past week regardless of category or genre. Further the user may still filter out authors of content items in certain categories such as by selecting or deselecting from the list of categories in the menu . Any of the other selection filtering and preference options discussed herein may also be applied such as price reading level adult content level geographic location user attributes and the like.

The user may similarly select the publisher view to view a plurality of representations in which each representation may correspond to a different publisher. As with the author view when a publisher publishes works in multiple categories there may be multiple representations for a particular publisher such as one in each different category in which the publisher publishes content items. Alternatively there may be a single representation for each publisher and an area of each publisher representation may be divided according to categories in which the publisher publishes content items with a relative size of each category corresponding to a selected metric and a fill of each category corresponding to a rate of change of the metric or a corresponding to a different metric.

The interface may be configured to display representations of identified terms in various different configurations such as according to category according to various metrics and combinations thereof. In the illustrated example the user has selected the view terms option which results in the display in the representation area of a plurality of representations corresponding to a plurality of terms . In some examples where display size and screen resolution permits the terms may be displayed with the representation such as in the case of term 1 through term 18 in the illustrated example. As with the other examples discussed above the terms may be displayed based on one or more selected metrics such as metrics or other suitable metrics. In this example the metric for sales ranking is selected and accordingly a size or area of the representations may correspond to a number of content items sold during a selected period of time that contain the particular term. For instance in the illustrated example the interface is configured to display the top 500 terms contained in content items sold during the past week. Furthermore in this example the user has configured the interface to limit the consideration of the terms to content items sold in a geographic location limited to Austin Tex. as indicated at . Furthermore the user may be provided with an option as indicated at to group the terms according to one or more categories of content items as discussed above such as genre categories Library of Congress categories Dewey decimal system categories or the like. Accordingly as indicated at the user may select one or more categories to which to limit the terms being displayed for example if the user selects romance the terms displayed may correspond to terms contained in content items categorized in the romance category and sold within the past week. Furthermore a fill pattern or color of the representations may indicate at least one of a rate of change of a value of a selected metric over the period of time with respect to a term or alternatively a different metric with respect to the term over the period of time. Additionally rather than displaying the rectangular representations the interface may display the text of the terms themselves in a manner similar to that discussed above with respect to . Numerous other interface configurations for displaying terms extracted from content items will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

Thus the animation may proceed from left to right starting with a small representation which changes in size as time progresses to reflect increasing sales of the corresponding content item . For example sales of the content item may peak at the time period corresponding to the representation and then may begin to recede as indicated from through . Accordingly in this example the size of the representation may represent the number of units of the content item sold during that particular time period relative to number of units sold during the other time periods. Furthermore a fill pattern color or other graphic effect of the representation may indicate whether the sales are increasing stagnant or decreasing. For example bright green may indicate a rapid increase in sales during the time period over a previous time period dark green may indicate a less rapid increase in sales black may indicate the rate of sales did not increase or decrease substantially over previous time period dark red may indicate a decrease in sales rate over previous time period and bright red may indicate a rapid decrease in sales rate over previous time. Accordingly both the change in size and the change in pattern or color of the representation may be animated in the interfaces herein.

Furthermore when the representation has reached a size sufficient for text to be contained within the representation text may be included. For example the text may be a title of a content item a name of an author a name of a publisher a term or the like. Additionally as the size of the representation decreases the text may be removed from the representation when the text would no longer be legible if contained within the representation. Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

In the illustrated example the electronic device is able to communicate with a content provider . For instance the electronic device may communicate with one or more computing devices of the content provider to access or receive information related to content items over one or more networks . For example the network s may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any combination thereof and may include both wired and wireless communication technologies using any suitable protocols and communication techniques. The computing device of the content provider and the electronic device may communicate and interact with one another using any combination of suitable communication and networking protocols such as Internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and so forth. Additionally in some cases the electronic device may download one or more content items from the content provider stream one or more content items or the like.

In some examples the content provider may maintain an online location or site such as a merchant website an e commerce site or other functionality that may offer one or more content items to the public and that further provides the information related to content items. For example the content provider site may be hosted on one or more of the computing devices . In some cases the host computing devices may be one or more web servers located at a data center server farm or other single physical location. In other cases the content provider site or portions thereof may be located in diverse locations that are physically remote from one another. Further in some implementations the content provider site may be a group of websites data stores services and the like hosted on a plurality of different host computing devices in a plurality of diverse locations or hosted by one or more host computing devices at a single location.

In some implementations the content provider site may offer the information about content items to the public through an online presence accessible by a web browser or other application. In some examples the content provider site alternatively or additionally may provide the information through an online or mobile application executing on the electronic device . For example an application on the electronic device may connect to or obtain the information from the content provider site such as to enable the selection purchase or management of one or more content items and the like. Thus the content provider site may enable the electronic device to access the information through an online or mobile application executing on a mobile electronic device such as an eBook reader smart phone tablet computing device augmented reality device or the like. Accordingly the content provider site is not limited to a website accessed by a browser but may encompass other technologies for marketing content items and providing information about content items such as through in application shopping and the like.

The electronic device may include an interaction module which in some instances may be an application such as a web browser mobile application or other module or computer program configured to receive web content webviews online content or the like for accessing and interacting with one or more modules of the content provider . For example the interaction module may enable a user to receive the information while browsing or shopping for content items at the content provider site . The interaction module may further enable the user to access or receive content items from the content provider site such as by downloading through the network . Further in some implementations the interaction module may enable the user to organize or manage the content items on the electronic device . Additionally while illustrates an example user and electronic device the described techniques can of course be used with any number of users and electronic devices . In addition a single user may use a plurality of electronic devices .

In some examples the electronic device may further include a content item presentation module and one or more content items . In some implementations the presentation module and the interaction module may be separate modules or applications. In other implementations the presentation module and the interaction module may both be part of the same application or computer program for accessing and presenting information and content items on the electronic device . In yet other implementations the presentation module and the interaction module may represent different functionalities of the same module.

Further in some examples each content item may include content and associated metadata that is associated with the particular content item such as in one or more metadata files. In some examples the metadata may include the terms extracted from the content item as discussed above with respect to and as discussed additionally below. In some examples the metadata may be contained in a separate file from the content while in other examples the metadata may be combined with the content into a single file.

The interaction module may present one or more interfaces for displaying information related to content items. Thus the interaction module may render and display the interfaces and or . For instance in some cases the interfaces and or and associated graphic effects may be generated using any of HTML hypertext markup language JavaScript CSS Cascading Style Sheets widgets or any combination thereof or any other suitable technology or graphics rendering software.

In some implementations each content item may include the content such as text images audio video or the like and may further include the metadata that is associated with the content . For example the content provider the author the publisher etc. may provide or may generate at least a portion of the metadata for a corresponding content item . In some cases the author or publisher may identify a genre or category for a content item while in other cases the content provider may perform this function. In some examples the content provider may generate the metadata for a respective content item to provide information related to the content of the content item . For instance the content provider may include a content preparation module that may receive a raw content item from one or more sources of content items. The sources of content items may be publishers authors movie distributors studios music companies artists and so forth. In the case of textual content items the content preparation module may parse and process the text of the raw content item to produce the content that is compatible with various display formats device platforms and so forth. The content preparation module may further parse and analyze a raw content item to produce at least a portion of the metadata that corresponds to the content item .

The content provider site may include a content item store module that may provide or may access a content item catalog . For example the content item store module may present the content item catalog to the interaction module of an electronic device that accesses the content provider site such as during shopping for a content item . The content item catalog may include searchable and or browsable listings and descriptions of content items available from the content provider site . The content item store module may communicate with the interaction module on the electronic device to enable the user to locate and acquire a content item from the content provider site . In some examples the content item store module may provide the information related to content items to an electronic device that accesses the content item store.

The content provider site may further include a delivery module that may deliver or make available for delivery a content item to the electronic device and or the user . For example in some instances the delivery module may facilitate the download of a content item to the electronic device over the network s following a purchase of access to the content item . In other instances the delivery module may provide for delivery of a hard copy of a content item to the user such as by delivery of a storage medium that maintains a copy of the content item depending on the nature of the content item and the electronic device . The delivery module may also expose programmatic interfaces or APIs application programming interfaces that electronic devices can use to obtain content items and related services which may include information related to content items.

Furthermore in some implementations the content provider may maintain user information . For example the user information may include one or more user accounts which may include user data such as user contact information a purchase history a user content item library information on various devices associated with a particular user account or other records relating to content items purchased by the user as well as records of other transactions of the user with the content provider . The user data may further include other attributes of the user that the user may provide or that may be gleaned from interactions with the user . Thus the user data may enable the content provider to customize or personalize the interfaces and or for a particular user .

In some examples the electronic device may send user content item information to the content provider for inclusion with other information in the user s account . For instance the user content item information may include position information such as a current position or furthest point of progress for each content item accessed by the user . The user content item information may further include annotation information related to any annotations such as highlights notes comments or bookmarks made to the content item . The user content item information associated with a particular user account may be used to synchronize each content item with other instances of a particular content item on other devices associated with the particular user s account. Accordingly the delivery module of the content provider may send synchronizing information to the other device s of the particular user so that when the user accesses the content item on the other device the other device may present the content item in the same position as when the user last accessed it on the first user device and with any annotations added by the user.

The content provider site may also include or may access a content item library . For example the content item library may include a plurality of content items that the content provider has available for access by electronic devices such as by purchase through the content item catalog . Each content item in the content item library may include both content and metadata corresponding to the content. In some examples the content item library may contain hundreds of thousands of unique content items including a variety of eBooks such as fiction non fiction etc. and various other types of content items examples of which have been enumerated above.

The content provider site may further include a supplemental information module that may be employed in some implementations for generating and managing supplemental information that may be used to identify various categories of a content item and or identify one or more significant terms in the content item. The supplemental information module may operate on the content items in the content item library to produce supplemental information that includes the terms . For example the supplemental information module may select a particular content item from the content item library for generating terms for the particular content item . The supplemental information module may parse and index the content item by identifying characters people things phrases places topics organizations themes and so forth which are of significance in the content item. In some examples the supplemental information module may access various authoritative sources of information as well as performing statistical analysis and modeling to identify the significant terms in the particular content item . Thus during the parsing the supplemental information module may identify candidate terms that are candidates to make into the terms for the content item. The supplemental information module may identify proper names place names statistically improbable phrases and the like in the text of the content item. For instance a statistically improbable phrase is a word or combination of words that occur in the text of a content item one or more times in a manner that is outside of a predetermined threshold. For example if a particular phrase is used multiple times in a content item while not being used or being used rarely in other content items in a corpus of content items this may be a statistically improbable phrase that is a candidate to become a term of the content item.

To determine which candidate terms to make into the terms the supplemental information module may access external sources of information outside the content item. For example the supplemental information module may access network accessible resources that may include online sources of information such as Wikipedia Shelfari and IMDb online dictionaries online encyclopedias wikis online reference sites discussion forums or other online resources to determine identification of characters and other significant phrases things events or places in a content item . Further the supplemental information module may obtain additional information on the statistically improbable phrases in the particular content item such as by obtaining definitions or other information for these phrases from various locations such as the authoritative sources mentioned above.

Furthermore in some examples the supplemental information module may utilize or may access crowd sourced information for further identifying terms of a content item to make into the terms of the content item. For example websites such as Shelfari may allow users to add crowd sourced information related to characters places topics etc. in a content item. Further crowd sourced information may also include information received from users of electronic devices to correct errors in terms of a content item . Users may also assist in identifying alternate names for characters identifying topics identifying text related to themes relationships events and interactions and so forth. Additional details of generating the supplemental information are described below with respect to . Supplemental information generated for each content item may include the terms stored in the metadata for the particular content item or other suitable location.

Additionally the supplemental information module may aggregate the user content item information collected from a plurality of users and a plurality of devices associated with different user accounts. The supplemental information module may determine which content items to identify as recently open on user devices such as to provide information for the recently open metric discussed above. The supplemental information module may further aggregate annotation information included in the user content item information to determine information for the most annotated metric discussed above. Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

Furthermore normalization may include or may be followed by parts of speech tagging and sentence detection . Parts of speech tagging may include identification of parts of speech in the text of the content item such as noun phrases verb phrases and various other parts of speech that may be of interest for identifying the categories of the content item discussed above. Thus each token may be associated with at least one part of speech. In addition sentence detection may include identifying sentences paragraphs and chapters contained in the content item .

Additionally normalization may include or may be followed by named entity recognition and coreference resolution . For example named entity recognition may include recognizing entities in the content item such as names of people places organizations topics certain numerical expressions quantities and so forth. For instance proper nouns such as names of people places organizations and the like may be identified based on various lists of names or other techniques for detecting and distinguishing these separate types of entities. Furthermore in some cases external information that is external to the content item may be employed to assist in named entity recognition such as by referring to the network accessible resources and or crowd sourced information discussed above with respect to or other suitable resources such as files or databases of names nicknames places organizations etc. In addition coreference resolution may involve identifying occurrences in the content item in which multiple different expressions or pronouns refer to the same thing in the content item .

The normalization including the operations described above results in content item data that may include tokens and annotations . The annotations may include noun phrases which may include for example proper nouns for some named entities such as people characters places organizations as well as other nouns and noun phrases identified in the content item for topics and the like. The annotations may further include verb phrases and other parts of speech tags identified in the content item . The annotations may further include information on sentences paragraphs and chapters identified in the content item .

Additionally in some instances named entity correction may be performed for named entities identified in the content item data . As one example an employee of the content provider may check the named entities in the content item for accuracy. As another example external information may be applied for checking the named entities in the content item data . For example the named entities for the content item may be posted to a source of crowd sourced information which may be relied on for correcting any errors in the named entities for the content item . Thus the named entities may be posted to a community website such as Shelfari that includes a page or entry for the content item and visitors to the community website may provide information to correct any errors in the named entities selected categories or the like. As another example users of electronic devices who receive the supplemental information with a content item may note an error in the supplemental information and may provide the external information used for named entity correction . Accordingly crowd sourced information and crowd sourced corrections may be used in some cases to perform named entity correction .

The content item data may be used to generate supplemental information data which may include terms identified in the content item . For example a topic generator may employ external information to generate one or more topics from the content item . For example the topic generator may generate a set of useful topics based on a detection of what the content item is generally related to and by extension where to find more information about the identified topics such as in the current content item or other content items. For example the topic generator may access Wikipedia or other network accessible resources to determine which of the noun phrases or other terms identified in the content item correspond to entries in Wikipedia or other network accessible resources . Some examples assign ranks to candidate topics based in part on an analysis of links to the entry associated with each candidate topic. Any of various link analysis ranking techniques may be applied such as the PageRank algorithm or other suitable link analysis algorithms and techniques for assigning a link based rank to each topic. Thus the links to a particular entry corresponding to a particular topic from other entries corresponding to other topics may be considered during ranking of the candidate topics.

Additionally the contribution of a particular candidate topic to other candidate topics in the content item may also be considered. This may be determined by calculating a contribution based on an analysis of links from an entry of a candidate topic to the other entries corresponding to the other candidate topics. A link analysis algorithm may also be adapted for making this determination. Thus the candidate topics may be ranked based on the values of incoming and outgoing links of corresponding entries in the network resources and those candidate topics having a rank below a certain ranking threshold may be pruned or otherwise removed from consideration. Further other techniques may also be used to rank the connectedness of candidate topics. As one example the ranking of the candidate topics may be based merely on the number of incoming and outgoing links for each candidate topic entry. Other variations will also be apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the disclosure herein.

In addition in some examples a term frequency inverse document frequency tf idf value may be calculated for each candidate topic to further refine the number candidate topics for a content item. For example a very large corpus of textual works e.g. thousands or hundreds of thousands of textual works may be parsed into n grams e.g. one word n grams two word n grams three word n grams four word n grams and five word n grams. The frequency of occurrence of each n gram in the corpus may be determined and normalized based on inverse document frequency. The frequency of the candidate phrases in the instant content item may then be compared with the frequency of those candidate phrases in the works of the overall corpus using tf idf values. Candidate phrases having a tf idf value that differs from the tf idf value for that phrase in the corpus by less than a certain tf idf threshold may be removed from consideration since they are likely common phrases that do not bear much importance to the subject of the content item . The candidate topics that remain may be designated as the set of topics for the instant content item . Thus the topics so identified may be included in the terms for the content item .

In addition a character list builder may build a list of characters from the named entities in the content item that are identified as corresponding to people or characters. For example the names corresponding to people in the content item may be identified such as through lists of common names presence of titles and suffixes lists of nicknames and so forth. The person names in the list may be further sorted according to the fullness of name i.e. whether both first name and last name is provided whether just a first name or just a surname is provided whether a prefix or suffix is provided etc.

The names may subsequently be clustered into name sets and the names in the name sets may further be disambiguated. For example characters are often referred to by multiple different names in a content item. As one example the expressions the tin man the Tin Woodman the Woodman and Nick Chopper are all used to refer the Tin Woodman character in L. Frank Baum s series of Oz books. Accordingly the character list builder associates these various different expressions or alternate names with a single character. In some instances external information may be employed by the character list builder such as by referring to the network accessible resources and or crowd sourced information discussed above or other suitable resources such as files or databases of names nicknames places organizations etc.

The character list builder may use the clustered and disambiguated names to create characters for the content item including the locations of each occurrence of each character name in the content item. The character list builder may further determine which name to use as the representative or primary name for a particular character such as based on a fullness or amount of information in the name. Accordingly the character names identified in the content item may also be included in the terms for the content item .

A places list builder an organizations list builder a things list builder and various other category builders may be employed to identify additional respective terms in the content item. For example the places list builder may identify and cluster places that are the same but that are referred to by different or alternate names such as by clustering the English Channel with the Channel in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the character list builder . The organizations list builder may use similar techniques to identify organizations such as corporations groups teams institutions associations clubs societies and so forth discussed in the content item. Further the things list builder may identify things that are believed to be important to the particular content item. For example such things of significance for a particular content item may be identified for fiction works in a manner similar to topics identified for non fiction works as well as or alternatively from crowd sourced information . Other term builders may be included for various other types of term categories such as themes scenes events interesting or popular phrases citations relationships between characters interactions between characters time periods and so forth. Accordingly the supplemental information data may include terms that have been identified by the topic generator character list builder places list builder organization list builder things list builder and so forth. Additional examples of structures techniques and user interfaces for generating and providing supplemental information and terms are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 433 028 filed Mar. 28 2012 and Ser. No. 13 431 838 filed Mar. 27 2012 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The computer readable media may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable by the processor . In some implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processor and that when executed implement operational logic for performing the actions attributed above to the electronic device . Functional components of the electronic device stored in the computer readable media may include the interaction module executable by the processor for obtaining and presenting information related to content items such as for presenting one or more interfaces and as discussed above. Additional functional components stored in the computer readable media may include the presentation module as described above which may be executed by the processor for presenting one or more content items . Other functional components may include an operating system and user interface module for controlling and managing various functions of the electronic device . Depending on the type of the electronic device the computer readable media may also optionally include other functional components such as other modules which may include applications programs drivers and so forth.

The computer readable media may also store data data structures and the like that are used by the functional components. For example data stored by the computer readable media may include the one or more content items . In some examples the electronic device may further include the user content item information that is sent to the content provide and which may include position information such as how far a user has progressed through each content item and annotation information for annotations made to each content item. In some examples the position information and annotation information may be stored with the metadata of each content item while in other examples this information may be stored in a separate location. The electronic device may also maintain other data which may include for example data used by the interaction module data used by the operating system and user interface module and data used by the other modules . Further the electronic device may include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

One or more communication interfaces may support both wired and wireless connection to various networks such as cellular networks radio WiFi networks short range or near field networks e.g. Bluetooth infrared signals local area networks wide area networks the Internet and so forth. For example the communication interface may allow a user of the electronic device to access the World Wide Web download content items from the content provider site access online content such as from a website or other network location and the like. The communication interface may further allow a user to access storage on another device such as a user s computing device a network attached storage device cloud storage or the like.

The electronic device may further be equipped with various other input output I O components . Such I O components may include a touchscreen and various user controls e.g. buttons a joystick a keyboard a mouse etc. speakers a microphone a camera connection ports and so forth. For example the operating system of the electronic device may include suitable drivers configured to accept input from a keypad keyboard or other user controls and devices included as the I O components . For instance the user controls may include page turning buttons navigational keys a power on off button selection keys and so on. Additionally the electronic device may include various other components that are not shown examples of which include removable storage a power source such as a battery and power control unit a global positioning system GPS device a PC Card component and so forth.

As illustrated in an example host computing device includes one or more processors one or more computer readable media and one or more communication interfaces . The processor s may be a single processing unit or a number of processing units and may include single or multiple computing units or multiple processing cores. The processor s can be configured to fetch and execute computer readable instructions stored in the computer readable media or other computer readable media.

The computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile memory and or removable and non removable media implemented in any type of technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Such computer readable media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape solid state storage magnetic disk storage RAID storage systems storage arrays network attached storage storage area networks cloud storage or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by a computing device. Depending on the configuration of the computing device the computer readable media may be a type of computer readable storage media and may be a tangible non transitory storage media.

The computer readable media may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable by the processors . In many implementations these functional components comprise instructions or programs that are executable by the processors and that when executed implement operational logic for performing the actions attributed above to the content provider site and content provider . Functional components of the content provider site that may be executed on the processors for implementing the various functions and features related to providing content items and information related to content items such as information for interfaces and include the content preparation module the content item store module the delivery module and the supplemental information module . Additional functional components stored in the computer readable media may include an operating system for controlling and managing various functions of the host computing device s .

In addition the computer readable media may include or the host computing device s may access data that may include the content item library including one or more content items having content and metadata including terms . The data may further include the information related to content items to be sent to electronic devices for generating the interfaces and . The data may further include the user information including information for one or more user accounts and user data . In addition the computer readable media may store or the host computing devices s may access the content item catalog used by the content item store module . The host computing device s may also include many other logical programmatic and physical components of which those described above are merely examples that are related to the discussion herein.

The communication interface s may include one or more interfaces and hardware components for enabling communication with various other devices such as the electronic devices over the network s . For example communication interface s may facilitate communication through one or more of the Internet cable networks cellular networks wireless networks e.g. Wi Fi cellular and wired networks. Various different approaches to implementations described herein can be implemented in various environments. For instance the network s may include any suitable network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a LAN WAN VPN or any other network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such networks are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail.

Host computing device s may further be equipped with various input output devices . Such I O devices may include a display various user interface controls e.g. buttons mouse keyboard touch screen etc. audio speakers connection ports and so forth.

Various instructions methods and techniques described herein may be considered in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules stored on computer storage media and executed by the processors herein. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environment. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations. An implementation of these modules and techniques may be stored on computer storage media or transmitted across some form of communication media.

At the device receives a selection of one or more categories of content items. For example a user may select one or more categories of content items in the user interface. Examples of categories may include genre categories Library of Congress classification categories and or Dewey decimal system categories.

At the device presents an interface including a plurality of representations of the content items corresponding to the selected one or more categories. For example the interface may include the plurality of representations grouped according to the selected one or more categories. Furthermore each representation displayed in the interface may be sized to indicate a value of at least one metric relative to the values of the metric for the other representations displayed in the interface. In addition each representation may include a graphic effect that indicates a quality of the metric value such as a rate of change of the value of the at least one metric over a period of time. In other examples the graphic effect may indicate a value of a different metric for a content item relative to the other content items. The graphic effect may include at least one of a color a pattern or a graphic element.

At the device receives via the interface a selection of one of the representations. For example a user may tap on click on or otherwise select one of the representations displayed in the interface.

At the device displays in the interface information related to the content item corresponding to the selected representation. For example the device may display in the interface a pop up window or label that identifies the content item an author of the content item or the like. In some examples pop up window or label may include or the user may navigate to additional information about the corresponding content item such as a synopsis of the content item pricing information for the content item and or a link to purchase the content item.

At the computing device identifies a plurality of terms by identifying at least one term included in each content item of a plurality of content items. For example the computing device may identify a plurality of terms in each content item such as a character mentioned in the content item a person mentioned in the content item a place mentioned in the content item a thing mentioned in the content item an organization or group mentioned in the content item a phrase used in the content item or a topic mentioned in the content item.

At the computing device may determine values of at least one metric for the plurality of content items. Examples of metrics that the computing device may determine for content items may include a sales ranking of each content item a number of each content item open on user devices within a period of time a number of views of each content item on at least one website a number of annotations made to each content item a frequency with which each content item is mentioned on at least one online location or a ranking of each content item based at least in part on user review ratings.

At the computing device sends at least the terms and the values of the at least one metric to a device. For example the computing device may send to user devices information related to content items that includes the identified terms and the values of the at least one metric to enable the user devices to present the information in an interface such as interfaces and and discussed above.

The example processes described herein are only examples of processes provided for discussion purposes. Numerous other variations will be apparent to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein. Further while the disclosure herein sets forth several examples of suitable frameworks architectures and environments for executing the processes implementations herein are not limited to the particular examples shown and discussed.

Furthermore this disclosure provides various example implementations as described and as illustrated in the drawings. However this disclosure is not limited to the implementations described and illustrated herein but can extend to other implementations as would be known or as would become known to those skilled in the art. Reference in the specification to one implementation this implementation these implementations or some implementations means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described is included in at least one implementation and the appearances of these phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same implementation.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

