---

title: Methods and systems for providing decision-making support
abstract: Method, apparatus, and articles of manufacture for presenting a decision user interface to a first member of a social network service, receiving information identifying a set of interests of the first member entered at the decision user interface, searching at least one of the group consisting or profiles of members of the social network service and user decision interfaces presented to members of the social network service and, responsive to searching, providing information relating to the set of interests to the first member. The set of interests may include a field of study or an organization or an academic degree.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09473583&OS=09473583&RS=09473583
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09473583
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121210
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing systems and techniques for processing and presenting content within an online social network environment. More specifically in one embodiment methods and systems for analyzing and aggregating information to facilitate the decision making process college bound students go through in deciding on a school to attend. Students may provide career aspiration data to a user interface provided by a system that uses a recommendation engine and data from a vast social network of professionals to obtain collective recommendations for students making such a decision. Multiple input data can yield refinement of the recommendations

A social network service is a computer or web based application that enables its members or users to establish links or connections with persons for the purpose of sharing information with one another. In general a social network service enables people to memorialize or acknowledge the relationships that exist in their offline i.e. real world lives by establishing a computer based representation of these same relationships in the online world. Many social network services require or request that each member provides personal information about himself or herself such as professional information including information regarding their educational background employment positions that the member has held and so forth. This information is frequently referred to as profile information or member profile information. In many instances social network services enable members with the appropriate data access rights to view the personal information e.g. member profiles of other members. Although such personal information about individual members can be useful in certain scenarios it may not provide many insights into big picture questions about various university degrees professions careers and individual jobs or employment positions among other things.

Additional detail about the technological operation of social networks useful in embodiments hereof may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 430 284 entitled Leveraging a Social Graph for use with Electronic Messaging assigned to the assignee of this patent and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Methods and systems for obtaining and presenting information about members of a social network service who share common interests in schools degrees fields of study professions and other interests or attributes are described. For example although an embodiment herein describes common interest in post secondary schools degrees fields of study and careers one of ordinary skill in the art will readily recognize that additional embodiments could describe common interests in the same general class of subject matter in respect of organizations such as high schools elementary schools and even professional certification or accreditation institutions e.g. LSAT prep CFA and the like . Further although members of a social network service are referred to herein sometimes called students or student members the term member student or student member may extend to any party having access rights to view a member s profile or other pages in the social network service and who is looking for recommendations in making decisions based on real life outcome as described by information in member profiles.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Disclosed is a platform to provide in one embodiment support when making a decision to attend a school that is likely to lead to a desired career path. Such a platform will be referred to herein as a decision board or a decision user interface. A student may express his or her career aspirations by adding relevant data to a decision board and obtain recommendations of schools likely to lead to that career based on real career outcomes of members of a social network service. The recommendations may also relate to degrees fields of study to undertake in order to improve the opportunity of reaching the desired career. Further the student may invite friends and family the student s network and even alumni to help the student decide on a degree a field of study and or a college to attend. This method is not limited to decisions relating to which school to attend and which fields of study to pursue but may also be used as support after graduation for job decisions for career milestone decisions and other decisions that relate to member profiles. Generally for the example of a student making a decision of what school to attend a decision board is a place for student members to keep track of the schools fields of studies and degrees they are interested in pursuing. A student can then share this information with their network so that they can get feedback and recommendations from others. The method of operation of the decision board in the embodiment includes recommending additional schools or fields of studies based on career outcome similarity based on actual career outcomes of members of the social networks service as well as additional features.

A decision board is particularly useful since many social network services and particularly those with a professional or business focus request or even require members to provide various items of personal information including information concerning a member s educational background employment history and career. This information can then be used for recommending decisions based on data provided on the decision board and can refine recommendations based on additional data provided on the decision board by the person seeking the recommendation. Social network service members may be prompted by the data entered on the decision board to provide information concerning the schools and universities attended the dates or years of attendance the subject matter concentration e.g. academic concentration or major as well as the professional certifications and or academic degrees that the member has obtained. Similarly a member may be prompted to provide information concerning the companies for which he or she has worked the employment positions e.g. job titles held the dates of such employment the skills obtained and any special recognition or awards received the information indicating actual real life outcomes. The data that is requested and obtained may be structured or unstructured. Other information may be requested and provided as well such as a professional summary which summarizes a member s employment skills and experiences or an objective or mission statement indicating the member s professional or career aspirations. For purposes of this disclosure the above described data or information is generally referred to as member profile data or member profile information. Furthermore each individual item of data or information may be referred to as a member profile attribute. Member profile data including career outcomes can then be used for providing the above recommendations as herein described.

Consistent with some embodiments a social network service includes a recommendation aggregation service which is referred to hereinafter as a recommendation engine or recommendation application. Consistent with some embodiments the recommendation application analyzes and aggregates the member profile information of all or some subset of members of the social network service to provide in one embodiment a rich and easy to access set of tools that enables members to explore and discover a variety of recommendation information and possibly trends concerning various schools as they relate to industries professions employments positions and or careers.

As illustrated in the social network service includes a content server module e.g. a web server module configured to send and receive information e.g. web pages or web based content with various web based communication protocols to various client applications and devices including web browser applications and or other content rendering applications. With some embodiments members interact with the service via a web browser application or some other content rendering application that resides and executes on a client computing device such as that with reference number in . Client computing devices may include personal computers as well as any of a wide number and type of mobile devices such as laptop computers tablet computers mobile phones and so forth. By interacting with the client computing device a member can request and receive web pages from the service . With some embodiments the web pages will prompt the member to provide various member profile attribute information e.g. schools and or universities attended academic degrees received academic majors employment history information and so forth which is then communicated to the service and stored in a storage device as member profile data .

The service includes an external data interface to receive data from one or more externally hosted sources. For instance with some embodiments certain information about companies and or particular job titles or employment positions e.g. salary ranges may be obtained from one or more external sources. With some embodiments such data may be accessed in real time while in other embodiments the data may be imported periodically and stored locally at the social network service that is hosting the recommendation application.

With some embodiments the volume of member profile data that is available for processing is extremely large. Accordingly as shown in with some embodiments the social network service includes a data analysis and processing module . With some embodiments this processing module may be implemented with a distributed computing system such as Apache Hadoop The processing module obtains as input various attributes of member profile information and then processes this information to ensure that it is in a usable form for the recommendation application. For instance the data normalizer module will normalize various elements of data ensuring that they conform to some standard that is used by the recommendation application. With some embodiments the various job titles that members specify for themselves are normalized by deduplicating and disambiguating the job titles. For instance in many cases the same employment position will have a different job title at different companies. Accordingly with some embodiments the data normalizer module will deduplicate job titles by mapping the different job titles as specified in members profiles to uniquely named job titles for use with the recommendation application. In addition to deduplicating job titles with some embodiments the data normalizer will disambiguate job titles. For instance in many cases a particular job title may be used in two different industries such that the two employment positions represented by the same job title are really very different. A few examples include the job titles associate and analyst. A financial analyst may be a completely different position from a security analyst and so forth. Accordingly with some embodiments the data normalizer will analyze various elements of a member s profile to determine the industry in which the member works such that the job title for the member can be specified uniquely for that industry. The originally input data before standardization may be stored in case it is needed in the future to check standardization. In that instance it is a copy of the originally input data that may be used for standardization by data normalizer module .

In addition to normalizing various items of information with some embodiments the processing module obtains or otherwise derives a set of recommendation parameters from or based on profile attributes of the members for use in making recommendations as discussed below. At least with some embodiments these parameters are updated periodically e.g. daily nightly bi daily weekly every few hours etc. to take into account changes members make to their profiles.

Recommendation parameters are stored for use with the recommendation application as shown in in a database with reference number . With some embodiments the recommendation parameters are stored in a distributed key value storage system such as the open sourced storage system known as the Voldemort Project . Also illustrated in is a recommendation engine with reference number which is used to process the recommendation parameters to obtain ranking results as discussed below. At run time the recommendation parameters are quickly retrieved and then used with one or more sets or one or more vectors to determine ranking of schools as one example which may be provided to a member interface in absolute or weighted format. With some embodiments the profile attributes specified by the member for use with the recommendation application may be separately stored with run time session information as illustrated in with reference number .

As further illustrated in the recommendation module includes a recommendation engine and a user interface UI module . The recommendation engine analyzes and aggregates the recommendation parameters and in some cases the member profile data as discussed in greater detail below. The user interface module includes logic for presenting the information in various formats for example as shown in the example user interfaces presented in the attached figures.

Certain attribute information from the member profiles of members of a social network service are retrieved and analyzed for the purpose of normalizing the information by the data normalizer for use with the recommendation application . For instance with some embodiments job titles may be specified as opposed to selected by the members of the social network service and therefore will not be standardized across companies and industries. As such with some embodiments the normalizer module will analyze the profile information from which certain job titles are extracted to ascertain an industry specific job title. Accordingly with some embodiments the recommendation application will utilize a set of unique industry specific job titles. Of course other attributes beside job titles may also be normalized.

Career aspiration information as one example may be provided to the social network service in several ways. For example is a user interface that is a college page that provides information about a particular college. As used herein college page may be any organization s or entity s information display on a user interface that illustrates identity and attributes of an organization such as a college or other organization or entity. The college page is an example and the entity it represents is not limited to a school. In the case of a college page the identity will be the name of the college or university or other school or other organization and attributes include activities connections students following the school by social network conversations concerning the school the number of students interesting in attending the school in the future ranking of the school similar schools and the like. Visitors to the college page who are seeking information about the college may operate the interactive pivot table to find information about the college to the extent of the data included in the alumni profile of social network service.

A pivot table of this type is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 647 027 entitled Methods and Systems for Obtaining and Presenting Alumni Data and incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference. If the college is one of interest to the visitor the member may click selectable icon that enables the member to add the college page to the member s decision board as discussed subsequently.

Similarly placing the cognitive science field of study page on the decision board will result in the system searching its member profiles and displaying a plurality of selectable icons or other meta data of members who have placed the same field of study on their decision boards.

Lisa may also add to her decision board a degree she is interested in by entering the degree at . When entered the degree may be displayed on Lisa s decision board at . The degree is entered as data to be transmitted to the system which will then compare the degree to other degrees stored in the system. The system will then display on the Lisa s decision board the names of suggested schools offering the degree again at or at some other suitable area of decision board much the same as was discussed for college pages and field of study pages above. Similarly the system may search its member profiles and or the decision boards of other members to determine members who have the same degree or who have an interest in obtaining the same degree. The system may display on Lisa s decision board a plurality of selectable icons or other meta data of members who have placed the same degree on their decision boards or who have otherwise expressed an interest in the degree on their profile.

By selecting any of the plurality of icons the member will be able to access the profiles field of study pages college pages of interest and decision boards of other members who are making the same or similar decisions as the member and who have similar interests or a similar set of interests in colleges fields of study and or degrees. The member here Lisa may also add to her decision board an organization or college page or degree she sees on one of the decision boards accessed by selecting an icon of the groups of icons or . For example Lisa may have selected an icon of a particular member viewed the selected member s decision board seen a Boston College college page on the selected member s decision board decided she may be interested in Boston College and consequently added Boston College to the her decision board at . This may be done by a selectable icon on the college page that is pinned to the decision board being viewed by Lisa that is the decision board of a member accessed by icon .

An example of this is seen in where there is seen in partial view a decision board that is seen by Lisa when accessing a member icon at of . A college page seen in partial view here Boston College is pinned to or has been added to or appears on decision board . Lisa may pin or add the Boston College college page to her decision board by selecting the add to your board icon of . The system will then add the Boston College college page to Lisa s decision board of as at .

When Lisa selects a member icon at as described above and accesses that member s decision board she may see that that member has also added some of the same college pages as Lisa has on her college page of . This is seen in where there is seen in partial view decision board where the member Lisa accessed by selectable icon had added Skidmore College and Cal Poly to that member s decision board. When Lisa accessed that member s decision board at the system searched Lisa s member profile found her decision board and compared its contents against the contents of decision board and determined that Lisa had already added both Skidmore College and Cal Poly to her decision board. Therefore in the rendering of the decision board Lisa accessed by selectable icon the entries for Skidmore College and Cal Poly have the icon On board and respectively in order to notify Lisa that she already has these entities or items on her board and need not add them.

The member here Lisa may email a copy of her decision board to friends and family as at and receive by email or other modes of communication recommendations relevant to Lisa s decision. The member may also send the decision board out to friends or others on other social network services such as by using the LinkedIn icon Twitter icon or Facebook icon or other relevant icons and ask for and receive back recommendations for schools fields of study or other comments relevant to the decision under discussion.

The above and other aspects of various embodiments can be understood by considering the amount of information available to the social network service. For example and as discussed previously many social network services require or request that each member provide personal information about himself or herself such as professional information including information regarding their educational background such as field of study at college employment position or job company of current employment location of that company and so forth. This information is frequently referred to as profile information or member profile information. A view of a small part of the social graph of the social network service of is seen in . In that figure some but not all of the connections and attributes of various members of the social network service are illustrated. For example member P1 attended school S1 works at company C1 at location L1 and majored in field of study FOS1 when at school S1. At company C1 P1 has job J1. Location L1 school S1 company C1 and job J1 are said to be attributes of P1. Further to the example of P2 went to school S2 studied field of study FOS2 has job J2 and like member P1 is employed at company C1 at location L1. Other members who attended school S2 are members P5 P6 and P7. Members P4 P8 P9 and P10 also have field of study FOS1. Member P10 attended school S3 which was also attended by members P11 and P12. Tracing through the figure which is not intended to be a complete set of attributes of the members illustrated can provide additional information about the various attributes of the various members in the figure. When the entire social graph of the social network service is considered an immense amount of information about members and their attributes can be determined.

In view of the amount of member profile information available to the social network service embodiments are not limited to the recommendation application searching merely for a single school or a single focus of study as the type of candidate desired for the recommendation. As one example the recommendation engine may analyze the attributes of the member profiles as described above and determine from the member attributes the members who graduated with a degree in cognitive science and the schools from which the members received their degrees in cognitive science. The recommendation engine may determine as one example the school from which the most members received their degree in cognitive science and recommend that school to the member seeking to make a decision. Or schools in a ranked order desired by the system designer for example the top five schools by number of degrees in cognitive science awarded to members could be presented to the user by the recommendation engine.

Further the recommendation application may search the attributes of the member profiles and determine that people who pursued computer science as a field of study had jobs as computer programmers. The system may also determine from the attributes of the profiles that some members who were computer programmers pursued mathematics instead of computer science as a field of study. In an embodiment these two fields of study may be considered as equivalent with respect to obtaining a job as a computer programmer. If the user were seeking one of the best schools for becoming a computer programmer the recommendation engine from the foregoing search could recommend schools that ranked high in awarding degrees in computer science and in awarding degrees in mathematics to members.

A recommendation may also be refined. For example if the user after entering forensic science as a field of study and receiving recommendations were then to enter an additional field of study at of for example forensic psychology the recommendation application may search member profiles to determine which schools provided degrees in both cognitive science and forensic psychology and present these schools in some ranked order if desired to the user. Given that there is now an additional field of study here forensic psychology the school or schools recommended for cognitive science alone would likely change thus refining the recommendation based on the user s additional aspiration of forensic psychology.

Generally speaking the system can provide recommendations for nearly any use case if the user specifies his or her aspirations such as in one embodiment providing a field of study and a location of the country desired for employment and requesting recommendations for companies in that location that hire people who pursued that field of study. It may be appropriate to modify the user interface of as needed to accept two sets of attributes where a set may include a single element . One of ordinary skill in the art given the information described above would understand how to modify the user interface to accept for example two attributes as input for example a field of study and a desired location and also to accept a desired recommendation candidate type for example companies for employment . The member profiles could be searched the people having the aspired to field of study in the aspired to location as attributes could be determined and the company or companies they are employed at in that location could also be determined. Those companies could be recommended to the user.

Further if a user were a manager in a particular company and was seeking to hire for example a product manager that user may input qualifications as attributes such as field of study and product manager as the job type and receive back a list of members of the social network service that have those attributes. Further the attributes inputted as qualifications for the desired recommendation need not be limited to two attributes but could include a further desired number of attributes.

The user seeking to hire a product manager might also input attributes to determine people in the user s own company who are also seeking to hire a product manager and then collaborate with them in determining which of the recommendations returned to the manager as job candidates might be best for that position. This is similar in nature to the above example of inputting a field of study and getting back names of members who are also interested in that field of study along with comments. Stated another way the method might include inputting the attributes sought after in making a decision receiving a recommendation of candidates for that decision whether schools to attend fields of study to pursue personnel to hire job types companies for employment and the like and inputting attributes for a set of people peer group or otherwise with whom to collaborate on making the decision the user is seeking to make or for other social processing or communication.

Referring now to there is seen a method of an embodiment as described above. At the user inputs aspired to which may mean desired attributes such as cognitive science as a field of study and the desired type of candidate recommendation school location job type or company as discussed above . At the system searches the attributes of member profiles for the type of recommendation candidate with the desired attributes. At the system may if desired rank the candidates such as in a manner described above as one example. Finally at the system recommends one or more candidates to the user. The user could then if desired operate the method again with another set of aspired to attributes for example forensic psychology as a field of study for a second recommendation for example school location job type or company . The system will again return a recommendation which may be a refinement of the first recommendation as discussed above. Of course in some cases more than two sets of input attributes may be input. In another example if one of the above operations were for a recommended candidate having the input attributes as a candidate for a decision such as in one example for hiring the second operation could have as input attributes a set of desired attributes for a recommendation of a set of people for social collaboration or social communication with respect to the first recommendation.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

