---

title: Photovoltaic power generation system free of bypass diodes
abstract: A photovoltaic power generation system that includes a solar panel that is free of bypass diodes is described herein. The solar panel includes a plurality of photovoltaic sub-modules, wherein at least two of photovoltaic sub-modules in the plurality of photovoltaic sub-modules are electrically connected in parallel. A photovoltaic sub-module includes a plurality of groups of electrically connected photovoltaic cells, wherein at least two of the groups are electrically connected in series. A photovoltaic group includes a plurality of strings of photovoltaic cells, wherein a string of photovoltaic cells comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series. The strings of photovoltaic cells are electrically connected in parallel, and the photovoltaic cells are microsystem-enabled photovoltaic cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09093586&OS=09093586&RS=09093586
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09093586
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120706
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 164 483 filed on Jun. 20 2011 now U.S Pat. No. 8 736 108 and entitled PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 914 441 filed on Oct. 28 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 9 029 681 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 933 458 filed on Nov. 1 2007. This application is additionally a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 957 082 filed on Nov. 30 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 329 503 which is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 933 458 filed on Nov. 1 2007. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Environmental concerns pertaining to utilization of fossil fuels to generate electric power together with the non renewable nature of such fossil fuels have increased demand for alternative energy sources. Exemplary electric power systems that utilize renewable energy resources include solar power systems wind power systems hydroelectric power systems geothermal power systems amongst others.

Conventional solar power systems particularly those utilized to provide electric power to a residence include solar panels that comprise a plurality of relatively large silicon photovoltaic cells e.g. approximately six inches by six inches . For instance a single solar panel can include approximately seventy two cells. The solar cells are manufactured to output a certain voltage e.g. 0.6 volts for silicon cells that is approximately constant regardless of an amount of solar radiation of particular wavelengths received at the solar cells and are electrically connected in series within a solar panel such that the solar panel produces approximately 40 volts. A typical residential solar system includes several solar panels e.g. 5 10 and the panels are electrically connected in series thereby resulting in several hundred cells being electrically connected in series that collectively output a voltage that is approximately equal to the sum of the voltages of the individual cells. It is to be noted however that when solar cells and panels are arranged electrically in series the current must be equal across each of the cells in each of the solar panels.

Since the current of a photovoltaic cell is proportional to the light that is incident on the cell if one cell of a series connection receives a low light level the entire series connection has a low current. Thus a typical solar power system configuration that includes several solar panels can have a severe current reduction and power output reduction when one cell or a portion of a cell has a low light level e.g. due to shading . Oftentimes when solar power systems are installed on residences or other buildings trees or other obstructions may be nearby and accordingly shading of at least a portion of a module can occur frequently.

When shading occurs across a solar power system in a certain pattern unless protective electric devices are in place solar cells can be severely damaged. For instance if a single solar cell is shaded by an obstruction and all other cells in the solar power system are illuminated then the single cell can be driven into reverse breakdown to support the current flow generated by the other cells. In current solar power installations cell current is approximately five amperes and silicon cells have a breakdown voltage of approximately 60 volts or more depending on the cell design and manufacture techniques used to produce the cell. As breakdown is not a uniform process across a large cell the relatively large current five amperes and the relatively large power upwards of one hundred watts can cause the device to malfunction in either a shorted or open state causing improper operation and permanent damage to the cell panel and or installation.

To prevent photovoltaic cells in solar power installations from being driven into reverse breakdown bypass diodes are selectively positioned across the cells thereby diverting current from cells with no photocurrent and preventing such cells from entering the breakdown region. Utilization of bypass diodes however consumes space in a solar power installation is relatively expensive and increases assembly time of solar panels. Furthermore using bypass diodes can result in excessive power production loss since each bypass diode normally protects one third of the cells in a panel e.g. there are usually three bypass diodes in a panel . Therefore if one cell is shaded power production from all of the cells covered by the bypass diode will be lost.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to photovoltaic power generation systems. More particularly photovoltaic power generation systems that are free of any bypass diodes are described herein. In an exemplary embodiment a photovoltaic power generation system can include at least one solar panel also referred to as a module that is composed of a plurality of photovoltaic sub modules. Each photovoltaic sub module can have an operating voltage of between 50 volts and 2000 volts and multiple panels therefore can be arranged electrically in parallel. A nominal operating voltage of the solar panel is generally in a range between 200 volts and 500 volts which is substantially optimal for conventional commercial inverters because of the present day regulatory limit of 600 volts in the United States although the appended claims are not to be so limited by such regulatory limit. Further in an exemplary embodiment a photovoltaic sub module can be less than 30 cm in width and less than 30 cm in length although sub modules of other sizes are contemplated. The arrangement of the photovoltaic sub modules in parallel in the solar panel facilitates prevention of relatively large amounts of power being dissipated across one of such sub modules when a particular sub module or set of sub modules is subjected to shading.

In another exemplary embodiment each photovoltaic sub module can comprise a plurality of groups of connected cells wherein each group is configured to output between two volts and three volts and wherein at least a subset of the groups are electrically connected in series. Each group of connected cells in a photovoltaic module can comprise a plurality of strings of photovoltaic cells wherein the strings of photovoltaic cells are electrically connected in parallel. Each string of photovoltaic cells can include a plurality of photovoltaic cells that are electrically connected in series. This series parallel series parallel arrangement of photovoltaic cells in the solar panel facilitates prevention of relatively large amounts of current from being driven through any single photovoltaic cell when that cell happens to be shaded while other cells in the solar panel are illuminated .

Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic cells utilized to construct the solar panel can be microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells that are configured to have an operating voltage of between 0.3 volts and 2.0 volts. Due to the relatively large number of cells that can be included in a given solar panel e.g. over 30 000 cells an amount of power that can be dissipated across a single cell for nearly any potential shading pattern on the solar panel will not cause damage to any given cell even if the cell is operating in reverse breakdown. Accordingly the solar panel described herein need not include bypass diodes which are conventionally employed to ensure that cells in a solar panel are not damaged when one or more of such cells are operating in reverse breakdown. This is because that in the solar panel described herein power dissipation across a single cell will not exceed a threshold that would damage the cell even if such cell is in breakdown. That is the cell can continue to operate in reverse breakdown indefinitely without sustaining damage as an amount of current that can be directed to any cell in the solar panel is relatively small.

As mentioned above the photovoltaic cells in the solar panel can be microsystem enabled cells. Pursuant to an example such cells can be III V cells such as gallium arsenide cells indium gallium phosphide cells or indium gallium arsenide cells. In other exemplary embodiments the photovoltaic cells can comprise silicon cells. In still other embodiments the photovoltaic cells can comprise germanium photovoltaic cells. In accordance with yet another exemplary embodiment the solar panel can comprise multi junction photovoltaic cells wherein each multi junction photovoltaic cell can comprise a plurality of photovoltaic cells of different band gaps. Pursuant to an example each photovoltaic cell in a multi junction photovoltaic cell can be integrally connected electrically in series such that the operating voltage of the multi junction photovoltaic cell is equivalent to the sum of the operating voltages of the respective microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells therein. In another exemplary embodiment individual types of photovoltaic cells can be selectively arranged in series and parallel wherein a number of photovoltaic cells electrically arranged in series can depend on a desired output or intermediate voltage.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to photovoltaic power generation systems will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference now to an exemplary solar panel that is free of any bypass diodes is illustrated. In an exemplary embodiment the solar panel can be between one meter and two meters in length and between one half meter and 1 meters in width. Furthermore the solar panel can be configured to output between 200 volts and 300 volts although in other embodiments the solar panel can be configured to output up to 2000 volts. Pursuant to a particular example the solar panel can be configured to output 240 volts. As will be understood by one skilled in the art however an amount of voltage that can be output by the solar panel can depend upon an application in which the solar panel is employed and may be higher or lower than the 200 300 volt range.

The solar panel comprises a plurality of photovoltaic sub modules . While the solar panel is shown as including 24 photovoltaic sub modules it is to be understood that the solar panel may include more or fewer photovoltaic sub modules depending upon the application in which the solar panel is employed amount of space available upon which to install the solar panel as well as the arrangement of the photovoltaic sub modules in the solar panel .

In an exemplary embodiment the photovoltaic sub modules can be electrically connected in parallel with one another. Therefore each of the photovoltaic sub modules can output approximately the same voltage e.g. between 200 and 600 volts . In another exemplary embodiment rather than each of the photovoltaic sub modules being electrically connected in parallel at least a subset of the photovoltaic sub modules can be connected to a power management integrated circuit wherein such integrated circuit can be configured to output desired voltage and or current levels resulting from the power that is produced from the subset of the photovoltaic sub modules electrically connected thereto. For instance the solar panel can include a single integrated circuit that is connected to each of the photovoltaic sub modules directly. The power management integrated circuit can then cause a final amount of power to be output by the solar panel to be at a predefined desired level voltage and current . In another exemplary arrangement subsets of photovoltaic sub modules can be coupled in parallel and such subsets can be connected to the power management integrated circuit. For instance a first subset of photovoltaic sub modules can include the photovoltaic sub modules and which can be electrically connected in parallel. Similarly a second subset of photovoltaic sub modules can include the photovoltaic sub modules and which can be electrically connected in parallel. The first subset of photovoltaic sub modules and second subset of photovoltaic sub modules may then be connected to the integrated circuit which performs power management to cause a desired amount of power to be output by the solar panel . Other arrangements are also contemplated and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

The arrangement of at least some of the photovoltaic sub modules in the solar panel in parallel effectively reduces the potential of any of the photovoltaic sub modules or cells therein from being damaged when one or more photovoltaic cells in the photovoltaic sub modules are operating in reverse breakdown. As at least some of the photovoltaic sub modules are electrically arranged in parallel current matching between modules need not occur when at least one of the photovoltaic sub modules is shaded. This effectively reduces an amount of power that can be dissipated across any one of the photovoltaic sub modules thereby reducing risk of damage to a photovoltaic sub module in the solar panel when at least a portion of such sub module is shaded. Accordingly the solar panel lacks a bypass diode.

Now referring to an exemplary photovoltaic sub module that can be included in the solar panel is illustrated. Pursuant to an example size of the photovoltaic sub module can be between 10 centimeters and 30 centimeters in length and between 10 centimeters and 30 centimeters in width. The photovoltaic sub module comprises a plurality of groups of electrically connected photovoltaic cells wherein the groups are electrically connected in series. While the photovoltaic sub module is shown as including groups it is to be understood that a number and arrangement of groups in the photovoltaic sub module can depend upon a desired voltage output by the photovoltaic sub module . Furthermore while the photovoltaic sub module is shown as being a definable physical sub element of a solar panel it is to be understood that a photovoltaic sub module can be defined by a circuit that is employed to connect cells in a solar panel both arrangements are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic sub module can comprise approximately 100 groups wherein each of the groups is configured to output a consistent voltage for example approximately 2.4 volts. In such example the desired output of the photovoltaic sub module is approximately 240 volts. Furthermore as will be shown in an example herein some of the groups may be connected in parallel. For instance the photovoltaic sub module can comprise a first plurality of groups that are connected in series and a second plurality of groups that are connected in series wherein the first plurality of groups and the second plurality of groups are connected in parallel.

In the example noted above each of the groups is configured to output approximately 2.4 volts Even if a subset of the groups are shaded in the photovoltaic sub module because the voltage output thereby is relatively low and the current passing through the groups is relatively low on the order of milliamps even if individual cells in the groups are operating in reverse breakdown insufficient power is dissipated across the groups to cause such groups or cells therein to suffer damage. Accordingly the photovoltaic sub module need not include any bypass diodes connected to any of the groups .

Now referring to an exemplary group that can be included as one of the groups in the photovoltaic sub module is illustrated. The group comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells . Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic cells can be microsystem enable photovoltaic cells that are relatively thin 1.0 50 micrometers thick small 50 micrometers 10 millimeters laterally photovoltaic cells that are built using microfabrication concepts. In another example a photovoltaic cell can be no larger than two centimeters in length by two centimeters in width. For instance the following references which are incorporated herein by reference describe the building of photovoltaic modules that comprise numerous photovoltaic cells using microfabrication techniques Nielson et al. Microscale C SI C PV Cells for Low Cost Power 34IEEE Photovoltaic Specialist Conference Jun. 7 10 2009 Philadelphia Pa. 978 1 4244 2950 90 and Nielson et al. Microscale PV Cells for Concentrated PV Applications 24European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference Sep. 21 25 2009 Hamburg Germany 3 936338 25 6. In summary such references described one sun and concentrating systems with integrated micro optical lenses and further describe relatively thin cells that have been fabricated using epitaxial lift off in Silicon Si and Gallium Arsenide GaAs with efficiencies exceeding 10 .

Accordingly the photovoltaic cells can be or include Si cells GaAs cells and or Indium Gallium Phosphorous Phosphide InGaP cells. Therefore it is to be understood that at least one of the photovoltaic cells can be a III V photovoltaic cell. Additionally or alternatively the photovoltaic cells can include at least one Germanium Ge photovoltaic cell. Still further the photovoltaic cells cart be or may be included in multi junction cells that include layers of differing types of photovoltaic cells with differing band gaps. Heterogeneously integrating e.g. vertically stacking different cell types for dielectric layers therebetween can yield high performance multi junction cells where a designer of a photovoltaic panel is free from lattice matching and series connected constraints of monolithic cells.

In an exemplary embodiment each of the photovoltaic cells can be a multi junction cell wherein for each multi junction cell layers are integrally connected. This effectively creates a string of photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series in a relatively small amount of space. In another exemplary embodiment as will be shown herein cells in a multi junction cell may not be integrally connected. In yet another exemplary embodiment the photovoltaic cells can be of the same type silicon . Other arrangements of photovoltaic cells are also contemplated.

In an exemplary embodiment the submodule can comprise a first string of photovoltaic cells a second string or photovoltaic cells a third string of photovoltaic cells and a fourth string of photovoltaic cells . The first string of photovoltaic cells comprises the photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series. Similarly the second string of photovoltaic cells comprises photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series. The third string of photovoltaic cells comprises the photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series and the fourth string of photovoltaic cells comprises the photovoltaic cells electrically connected in series. The first string of photovoltaic cells the second string of photovoltaic cells the third string of photovoltaic cells and the fourth string of photovoltaic cells are electrically connected in parallel.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art different types of photovoltaic cells have different operating voltages. For instance if the photovoltaic cells are Ge cells the operating voltage may be approximately 0.3 volts. If the photovoltaic cells are Si cells then the operating voltage may be approximately 0.6 volts. If the photovoltaic cells are GaAs cells then the operating voltage may be approximately 0.9 volts and if the photovoltaic cells are InGaP cells then the operating voltage may be approximately 1.3 volts. Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic cells can be Si cells. In such an example each of the strings of photovoltaic cells outputs approximately 2.4 volts a common voltage and therefore the output of the group is approximately 2.4 volts. In this case strings and have different numbers of cells for the different cell types approximating the common voltage. For example in an exemplary embodiment the first string of photovoltaic cells can include eight Germanium cells 8 0.3 2.4 the second string of photovoltaic cells can include four Silicon cells 4 0.6 2.4 the third string of photovoltaic cells can include three GaAs cells 3 0.9 2.7 and the fourth string of photovoltaic cells can include two InGaP cells 2 1.3 2.6 . The slight voltage mismatch is tolerable and if desired a larger number of cells and a higher voltage can be used to provide more precise voltage matching. In another embodiment described earlier power management circuitry can be used to independently boost the voltages generated by the series connections of different cell types to a common voltage. If the desired output of the solar panel is approximately 240 volts then the photovoltaic sub module can include one hundred of the groups electrically connected in series. Therefore each sub module in the solar panel outputs approximately 240 volts and the output of the solar panel is thus approximately 240 volts.

Using this example the solar panel includes 38 400 cells. When an entirety of the solar panel is illuminated the photovoltaic cells in each of the groups generate 4 milliwatts of electric power. For microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells electric power on the order of 100 milliwatts across a single cell even if such cell is operating in reverse breakdown is not damaging. Electric power over 100 milliwatts is very unlikely to occur across a single cell due to the selective arrangement of photovoltaic cells submodules and modules in a solar panel in series parallel series parallel as described herein. Given such exemplary arrangement and utilizing microsystem enable photovoltaic cells it is readily apparent that a solar panel that is composed of photovoltaic cells described above can be free of any bypass diodes since individual cells are not likely to be damaged even when a portion of the solar panel is subject to shading.

Now referring to an exemplary photovoltaic sub module that can be included as one of the photovoltaic sub modules in the solar panel is illustrated. Pursuant to an example the photovoltaic sub module can comprise a plurality of multi junction photovoltaic cells such that each multi junction photovoltaic cell comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells. As discussed above each multi junction photovoltaic cell can comprise a Si photovoltaic cell and a III V photovoltaic cell. In a more specific example each multi junction photovoltaic cell can comprise a Ge photovoltaic cell a Si photovoltaic cell a GaAs photovoltaic cell and an InGaP photovoltaic cell.

The exemplary photovoltaic sub module comprises multi junction photovoltaic cells wherein each of the multi junction photovoltaic cells comprises a Ge cell an Si cell a GaAs cell and an InGaP cell. These different cells are shown as laid out adjacent to one another however such layout is for purposes of explanation. As indicated above the cells in the multi junction cells are stacked on top of one another. In another exemplary embodiment cells can be placed in a side by side configuration e.g. if spectrum spreading optics are used .

The photovoltaic module comprises different numbers of each cell type connected in series to create a string to arrive at similar intermediate higher voltage. These strings can be connected in parallel to effectively add currents. In an example a desired intermediate voltage output by the photovoltaic module can be approximately 10 volts. As discussed above a Ge cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.3 volts an Si cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.6 volts a GaAs cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 0.9 volts and an InGaP cell may have an operating voltage of approximately 1.3 V. Therefore the photovoltaic sub module can comprise a first string of Ge cells and a second string of Ge cells that each comprises cells electrically connected in series. Accordingly each of the first string of Ge cells and the second string of Ge cells outputs approximately 10.8 V.

The exemplary photovoltaic sub module further comprises a first string of Si cells a second string of Si cells a third string of Si cells and a fourth string of Si cells . Each of the strings of Si cells can comprise cells electrically connected in series resulting in each string outputting approximately 10.8 volts.

The sub module can additionally comprise a first string of GaAs cells a second string of GaAs cells a third string of GaAs cells a fourth string of GaAs cells a fifth string of GaAs cells and a sixth string of GaAs cells . Each of the strings of GaAs cells can comprise 12 cells electrically connected in series resulting in each string of GaAs cells outputting approximately 10.8 volts.

Further the sub module can also comprise a first string of InGaP cells a second string of InGaP cells a third string of InGaP cells a fourth string of InGaP cells a fifth string of InGaP cells a sixth string of InGaP cells a seventh string of InGaP cells an eighth string of InGaP cells and a ninth string of InGaP cells . Each of the strings of InGaP cells can comprise eight cells electrically connected in series resulting in each string of InGaP cells outputting approximately 10.4 volts.

From the above it can be ascertained that an intermediate operating voltage for each string of cells can be approximately 10 volts. It can further be ascertained that voltages output by strings of different cell types are not identical and thus the voltage output by the sub module will be the lowest voltage output by the strings of cells.

Because only one type of cell is initially connected in series power output from other cells in the sub module is relatively unaffected by spectral shifts that cause a decrease in output of one type of cell versus another. For example a 10 reduction of current from one cell type yields a reduction in array current from 1 to 4.3 depending upon which cell has reduced solar input. Thus the sub module is less susceptible to output power reductions from spectral shifts that affect response of cell types in an unequal manner when compared to conventional photovoltaic modules 

With reference again to the solar panel while not shown can be associated with an inverter that transforms the voltage output by the solar panel from DC to AC at a phase desired by a consumer of electric power produced by such solar panel . Further while not shown the solar panel can comprise micro concentrating optics that are configured to concentrate light from the sun onto the photovoltaic cells therein. In another exemplary embodiment rather than undertaking precise voltage matching between cell types microelectronics can be employed to cause intermediate voltages to be at desired levels voltages output by each of the modules . Therefore a photovoltaic sub module or group can comprise one or more DC to DC converters with micropower tracking electronics to cause intermediate output voltages to be approximately equivalent and dynamically adjustable. Moreover a photovoltaic group can comprise micro inverters that transform DC voltage output by a cell or arrangement of cells into AC voltage. As the individual cells in the solar panel are relatively small in size there is sufficient room between cells sub modules or groups for adding various microelectronic devices for boost conversion and power tracking.

With reference now to a cutaway view of an exemplary heterogeneously non monolithic integrated multi junction photovoltaic cell is illustrated. The multi junction photovoltaic cell comprises a plurality of photovoltaic cells an InGaP cell initially receives light from the sun a GaAs cell is immediately adjacent to the InGaP cell an Si cell is immediately adjacent to the GaAs cell and a Ge cell is immediately adjacent to the Si cell . It is to be understood that other arrangements are contemplated by the inventors and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Exemplary embodiments where the solar panel is beneficially employed include any installation where at least partial shading is possible. For example a rooftop of a building with trees nearby areas with intermittent cloud cover areas proximate to air traffic and the like. Additionally features described herein are beneficial in installations where the solar panel portions thereof or an entire installation are flexible curved conformed or otherwise non planar in such a manner such that at least a portion of the solar panel is always subject to shading. In such an installation the solar panel can output desired voltages without the solar panel including bypass diodes.

With reference now to various exemplary methodologies are illustrated and described. While the methodologies are described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

Now referring to an exemplary methodology that facilitates creating a solar panel that is free of bypass diodes is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells are received. In an exemplary embodiment the microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells can have both positive and negative contacts on a backside thereof.

At the plurality of microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells can be electrically connected to create a photovoltaic sub module wherein the photovoltaic sub module is free of bypass diodes. As discussed above the relatively small amount of current that travels through the microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells ensures that any individual photovoltaic cell is not damaged when operating in reverse breakdown when such cell is subjected to shading.

At a plurality of photovoltaic sub modules are electrically connected to create a solar panel. Because the photovoltaic sub modules are composed of the microsystem enabled photovoltaic cells the solar panel can be free of bypass diodes. The solar panel however in an exemplary embodiment can include a power management integrated circuit that is electrically connected to photovoltaic sub modules in the solar panel such that the power management integrated circuit can output electric power based at least in part upon voltages output by respective photovoltaic sub modules. In another embodiment power management integrated circuits can be placed in connection with groups such that strings of photovoltaic cells are electrically connected to the power management integrated circuit and the output of a sub module is based upon voltages output by the respective groups that are connected to the integrated circuit. The methodology completes at .

Now referring to another exemplary methodology for creating a solar panel that lacks bypass diodes is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a plurality of photovoltaic sub modules are received.

At the photovoltaic sub modules are electrically connected to generate a solar panel wherein at least a subset of the photovoltaic sub modules are electrically connected in parallel and wherein the solar panel is free of bypass diodes. The methodology completes at .

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

