---

title: Electrochemical flow capacitors
abstract: The present invention generally relates to devices for energy storage technologies, and more particularly to electrochemical flow capacitor systems and applications. In some aspects, these flow capacitors have at least one electrode comprising a non-stationary solid or semi-solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent in electrical communication with at least one current collector, and energy is stored and/or released by charging and/or discharging the electrode(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171679&OS=09171679&RS=09171679
owner: Drexel University
number: 09171679
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120214
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE AC05 00OR22725 awarded by the Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2012 024960 filed Feb. 14 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 443 488 filed Feb. 16 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 555 648 filed Nov. 4 2011 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to devices for energy storage technologies and more particularly to electrochemical flow capacitor systems and applications.

Energy storage is one of the largest challenges of modern society. This applies to all amounts of stored energy ranging from small devices e.g. watches cell phones or portable communication devices and laptop computers to large power consuming entities such as cities or factories. For large scale storage a common method to harvest energy is to pump water into an elevated reservoir and use its released potential when flowing back to a deeper level. The main drawback of this technique is its relatively low storage energy capacity which dates back to the first power plants built over a century ago.

Conventional batteries operate by converting chemical to electrical energy. In operation the electronic current can be used to drive an external device. Unfortunately such batteries are not easily scalable and suffer from degradation over time with less and less energy being stored on continuous use.

Flow batteries emerged in the 1970s and offer scalable energy storage. These types of batteries are based on an electrolyte that is pumped through a system. Two separate flow routes meet at a point where electrons are transferred from one electrolyte to the other as a result of applied voltage i.e. the electrical energy is transformed and stored as chemical energy . The two electrolytes now charged positively and negatively respectively are stored in separate containers or reservoirs. Having them flow back to a juncture point where electron transfer is possible the chemically stored energy is harvested as electrical energy. While they can be built to almost any value of total charge capacity by increasing the size of the catholyte and anolyte reservoirs one of their limitations is that their energy density being in large part determined by the solubility of the metal ion redox couples in liquid solvents is relatively low. Although an intriguing method of energy storage such a system requires electrically conductive electrolytes which are often toxic or extremely acidic and corrosive.

Chiang et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication 2010 0047671 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety has recently disclosed an extension to the concept of flow batteries wherein slurries of electro active materials distributed in ion storing liquids which are themselves redox active are passed through so called electro active zones providing one or two streams of chemically oxidized or reduced slurries. These separate slurries can be separated and stored until the need to recover the chemical energy at which point the separate slurries are brought back together and the chemical energy is harvested much like the process in the redox flow batteries. The stated advantage of this method is the ability to achieve much higher storage battery storage. The unstated disadvantage is that the method may suffer from many of the same problems of stationary batteries i.e. discharging on storage limited speed of electrical charge discharge and limited lifetime cycle ability. Other disadvantages include environmental hazards associated with redox reactive materials used in battery electrodes and electrolytes.

Thus there remains a need for scalable high energy density and high power density energy storage devices.

The present invention takes advantage of physical energy storage using a supercapacitor where energy is stored by ion adsorption on charged surfaces rather than by exchanging electrons in chemical or redox reactions. Advantages of various embodiments of the present invention include minimal degradation easy scalability use of relatively safe materials of construction e.g. options including carbon based flowable electrode materials and aqueous organic or ionic liquid electrolytes while at the same time providing the adaptability to store small amounts of energy e.g. for use in private homes or transportation devices or even for storage of large quantities of energy as required for energy storage for wind turbines solar farms as well as more conventional power plants.

Embodiments of this invention provide energy storage devices comprising a a positive electrode current collector a negative electrode current collector and an ion permeable separator separating the positive and negative electrode current collectors b a positive electrode disposed between the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator c a negative electrode disposed between the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator wherein at least one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary including moveable or flowable relative to the current collectors solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species. In some embodiments the electrodes are in electrical communication with at least a portion of the respective electrode current collector.

Various embodiments provide methods of storing energy using an energy storage device a said energy storage device comprising i a positive electrode current collector a negative electrode current collector and an ion permeable separator separating the positive and negative electrode current collectors ii a positive electrode disposed between the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the positive electrode current collector the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining a positive capacitive zone accommodating the positive electrode iii a negative electrode disposed between the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the negative electrode current collector the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining negative capacitive zone accommodating the negative electrode wherein at least one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary including moveable or flowable solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species said method comprising b transporting a portion of an uncharged non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and a solvent comprising an electrolyte into the capacitive zone. Additional embodiments further comprise c applying an electric field is applied across the positive and negative electrode current collectors and d exposing said portion of uncharged non stationary solid or semi solid composition to said electric field for a time sufficient to charge the supercapacitive particles thereby producing a portion of charged non stationary solid or semi solid composition.

Other embodiments provide methods of releasing stored energy using an energy storage device a said energy storage device comprising i a positive electrode current collector a negative electrode current collector and an ion permeable separator separating the positive and negative electrode current collectors ii a positive electrode disposed between the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the positive electrode current collector the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining a positive capacitive zone accommodating the positive electrode iii a negative electrode disposed between the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the negative electrode current collector the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining negative capacitive zone accommodating the negative electrode wherein at least one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species and said method comprising b transporting a portion of an charged non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising charged supercapacitive particles such that the charged supercapacitive particles come into electrical communication with the adjacent current collector and c discharging the charged supercapacitive particles through the adjacent current collector.

In some embodiments of the device and the methods of operating an energy storage device and of storing or releasing energy both the positive and negative electrodes comprise a non stationary including moveable or flowable with respect to the relevant current collector solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species. Similarly certain embodiments provide devices or methods wherein one of the two electrodes comprises supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent which contains electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species for example in a pseudocapacitive system provided the other electrode is substantially free of such oxidizable or reducible species. In still further separate embodiments one or both of the two electrodes contains electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species known as pseudocapacitive materials. Said pseudocapacitive materials may be organic or inorganic such as a quinone or metal oxide respectively. Additional embodiments also include those wherein one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary solid or semi solid composition and the other electrode is stationary with respect to its corresponding current collector.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying Figures and Examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific products methods conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of any claimed invention. Similarly unless specifically otherwise stated any description as to a possible mechanism or mode of action or reason for improvement is meant to be illustrative only and the invention herein is not to be constrained by the correctness or incorrectness of any such suggested mechanism or mode of action or reason for improvement. Throughout this text it is recognized that the descriptions refer both to the devices and to the methods of using the devices.

In the present disclosure the singular forms a an and the include the plural reference and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a material is a reference to at least one of such materials and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

When values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. In general use of the term about indicates approximations that can vary depending on the desired properties sought to be obtained by the disclosed subject matter and is to be interpreted in the specific context in which it is used based on its function and the person skilled in the art will be able to interpret it as such. In some cases the number of significant figures used for a particular value may be one non limiting method of determining the extent of the word about. In other cases the gradations used in a series of values may be used to determine the intended range available to the term about for each value. Where present all ranges are inclusive and combinable. That is a reference to a value stated in ranges includes each and every value within that range.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Similarly while an embodiment may be described as part of a series of steps or part of a more general composition or structure each said step may also be considered an independent embodiment in itself.

The present invention s share s the major advantages of both supercapacitors and flow batteries providing rapid charging discharging while enabling the decoupling of the power and energy ratings. As in supercapacitors energy may be stored in the electric double layer of charged supercapacitive particles. A unique aspect of this new concept is the use of a non stationary including moveable or flowable with respect to the relevant current collector solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent for capacitive energy storage. Unlike flow batteries charging occurs very fast yet power output and energy storage are decoupled overcoming the major limitation of supercapacitors their moderate energy density.

Various embodiments of this invention provide energy storage devices comprising a a positive electrode current collector a negative electrode current collector and an ion permeable separator separating the positive and negative electrode current collectors b a positive electrode disposed between the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator c a negative electrode disposed between the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the negative electrode current collector wherein at least one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary including moveable or flowable with respect to the relevant current collector solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the supercapacitive particles and the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species. In some embodiments at least one of the electrodes are in electrical communication with at least a portion of the respective electrode current collector. In some embodiments of the device and the methods of operating an energy storage device and of storing or releasing energy both the positive and negative electrodes comprise a non stationary including moveable or flowable with respect to the relevant current collector solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species. Similarly certain embodiments provide devices or methods wherein one of the two electrodes comprises supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent which contains electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species for example in a pseudocapacitive system provided the other electrode is substantially free of such oxidizable or reducible species. In still further separate embodiments one or both of the two electrodes contains electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species known as pseudocapacitive materials. Said pseudocapacitive materials may be organic or inorganic such as a quinone or metal oxide respectively. Additional embodiments also include those wherein one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary solid or semi solid composition and the other electrode is stationary with respect to its corresponding current collector.

As used herein unless otherwise specifically indicated the term energy storage device includes the conformation of the device wherein energy can be stored i.e. the electrode particles are charged and wherein energy can be harvested i.e. the electrode particles are discharged .

The positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator may be envisioned as defining a positive capacitive zone accommodating the positive electrode. Similarly the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining a negative capacitive zone accommodating the negative electrode. These capacitive zones may also be referred to either individually or collectively as the charging or discharging cell of the device. In certain embodiments the device also comprises at least one reservoir preferably two reservoirs acting as a source s for the solid or semi solid composition before entering the appropriate capacitive zone. In other embodiments the device also comprises at least one reservoir acting as a receiver for the solid or semi solid composition after leaving the appropriate capacitive zone.

In other embodiments both of the positive and negative electrodes independently comprise non stationary solid or semi solid compositions comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent. In still other embodiments both electrolytic solvents are the same. In other embodiments the electrolytic solvents are different.

As used herein semi solid refers to a mixture of liquid and solid phases such as a slurry particle suspension heterogeneous mixture fluidized bed or colloidal suspension. Solid compositions may include gels including gels solvated by the solvents described herein.

In some embodiments the negative electrode can be a conventional stationary electrode while the positive electrode includes a supercapacitive composition. In other embodiments the positive electrode can be a conventional stationary electrode while the negative electrode includes a supercapacitive composition.

The current collector is generally electrically conductive and should be electrochemically inactive under the operation conditions of the cell. Typical current collectors include copper aluminum or titanium for the negative current collector and aluminum for the positive current collector in the form of sheets or mesh or any configuration for which the current collector may contact the non stationary electrode and permit fluid flow. Selection of current collector materials is well known to those skilled in the art. In some embodiments aluminum is used as the current collector for positive electrode. In some embodiments copper is used as the current collector for negative electrode. In other embodiments aluminum is used as the current collector for negative electrode. In still other embodiments current collectors may comprise stainless steel noble metals carbon or combinations thereof.

The present invention is significantly different from other flowable energy storage devices in that it stores energy capacitively or electrostatically rather than electrochemically by redox chemical methods. As used herein the term supercapacitive particles refers to those particles as capable of exhibiting the essential characteristics of an electrical double layer capacitor i.e. able to store charges on the surface of the particles. In some embodiments these particles may contain or comprise other materials including pseudocapacitive materials either internally e.g. embedded nanoparticles or on their surface e.g. with surface coatings or tethered groups or a combination thereof to the extent that these additional materials do not materially affect the ability of the supercapacitive particles to act in their intended function.

Supercapacitors also called ultracapacitors or electrochemical or electric double layer capacitors EDLCs store energy by charge separating ions in an electrolytic solution with a non interacting electrode using an accumulation of ions of opposite charge in a double layer at electrochemically stable high specific surface area electrodes. EDLCs do not have a conventional dielectric. Rather than two separate plates separated by an intervening substance these capacitors use plates that are in fact two layers of the same substrate and their electrical properties the so called electrical double layer result in the effective separation of charge despite the vanishingly thin on the order of nanometers physical separation of the layers. The lack of need for a bulky layer of dielectric permits the packing of plates with much larger surface area into a given size resulting in extraordinarily high capacitances in practical sized packages.

In an electrical double layer each layer by itself is quite conductive but the physics at the interface where the layers are effectively in contact means that no significant current can flow between the layers. The high surface to volume ratio of the active material promotes the energy and power densities of EDLCs and is further enhanced in micro supercapacitors. By offering fast charging and discharging rates and the ability to sustain millions of cycles electrochemical capacitors bridge the gap between batteries which offer high energy densities but are slow and conventional electrolytic capacitors which are fast but have low energy densities.

EDLCs have much higher power density than batteries. In fact while existing EDLCs have energy densities that are perhaps 1 10th that of a conventional battery their power density is generally 10 to 100 times as great. The relatively low energy densities of conventional stationary EDLCs are surmounted in the present invention which because of the extremely flexible scalability especially in their ability to store energy in separate reservoirs significantly improves the energy densities of the supercapacitive systems.

While in certain embodiments the electrode materials may accept and hold an electrostatic charge they are not subject to any appreciable redox reactions and preferably not subject to any redox reactions in the sense that battery electrodes are. Such materials are electrically conductive or semi conductive. Typical materials used for the supercapacitive particles include carbon black activated carbon graphene or graphitic carbon carbon nanotubes nanorods or nanowires carbon aerogels and certain electrically conducting metals e.g. Pt Pd Au oxides carbides and conductive polymers. Each of these forms may be used in the present invention. More recently Gogotsi et al. and others have described the use of nanoporous carbide derived carbon and alliform carbon for use in supercapacitor applications. For example see WO 2008 069833 WO 2009 123784 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 383 951 respectively each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In certain embodiments of the present invention the supercapacitive particles comprise carbon more preferably in the form of carbon black graphitic carbon glassy carbon carbide derived carbon or alliform carbon. In other embodiments these carbon forms may be fully or partially metal coated to enhance conductivity.

In various embodiments the carbon particles comprise carbon atoms having spand sp hybridization with sizes the range from the nanometer scale to 1000 microns and have a high surface area associated with porosity resulting in a large surface area in excess of 2500 m gram where most of the pores are accessible to the electrolytic solution and its ions. The carbon material is both conductive and can hold charge either negative or positive depending on whether it is located within or have passed through the positive or negative capacitive zone respectively. The charge can redistribute throughout the particles via both inter and intra particle charge transfer and the ions of the electrolyte of opposite charge can readily migrate to a position within several Angstroms of the charge in the majority of cases though the prevent invention is not limited to this electrolyte charge position or degree of separation.

As regarding the supercapacitive electrode materials higher energy densities can be achieved at higher surface areas of the supercapacitive particles. This can be achieved by using small particle sizes or highly porous mesoporous or nanoporous particles or combinations of each. Various embodiments encompass those particles having mean particle diameters of less than 1000 microns less than 500 microns less than 100 microns less than 50 microns and less than 2.5 or 1 micron. More specific embodiments include those wherein the range of mean particle diameters have an upper limit of 1000 microns 500 microns 250 microns 100 microns 50 microns 25 microns 10 microns and 5 microns and a lower limits of 1 micron 5 micron 10 microns 25 microns 50 microns 100 microns and 250 microns consisting of any combination of upper and lower limits as allowed by logic. For example non limiting illustrative examples includes those embodiments wherein the supercapacitive particles have mean particle diameters in the range of about 1 micron to about 500 microns or about 250 microns to about 400 microns. Even smaller mean particle diameters down to nanometer sized particles may also be employed as colloidal solutions for example wherein the lower limit of the ranges described above is 2 nm 5 nm 10 nm or 100 nm though compositions comprising too fine a solid phase can inhibit the power and energy of the system by clogging the current collectors. In one or more embodiments the semi solid flowable composition contains very fine primary particle sizes for charging rate but where the very fine particles are aggregated into larger agglomerates. Commercially available carbon blacks which can comprise aggregate clusters as small as 50 nm made up of individual particles as small as 5 nm are available and work well as electrode materials in various embodiments of this invention. In some embodiments the supercapacitive particles in the positive or negative flowable electrode compositions are present in a porous aggregate of 1 micrometer to 1000 micrometer average diameter.

A low inter particle connectivity can negatively affect the rate performance and the charge transfer efficiency of electrodes. This aspect can be addressed by optimizing the size of the supercapacitive particles but there should be a balance of flowability which favors low solid liquid ratios and charge transfer efficiency which favors high solid liquid ratios . While a narrow particle size distribution is desirable to avoid granular convection the flowability and particle contact would both directly benefit through the use of smaller particles.

In some embodiments the energy storage device comprises a relatively non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and electrolytic solvent in a weight ratio in the range of about 2 1 to about 5 1 preferably in a weight ratio in the range of about 3 1 to about 4 1. Additionally these ratios may change with time or with respect to positioning in the device or system.

In other embodiments carbon electrode materials are comprised of macroporous carbon mesoporous carbon or nanoporous carbon or combinations of each. As used herein the term mesoporous is characterized as having a plurality of pores characterized as having an average cross sectional dimension greater than about 50 nm. As used herein the term mesoporous is characterized as having a plurality of pores characterized as having an average cross sectional dimension in the range of from about 2 nm and about 50 nm in the range of from about 2.5 nm and about 25 nm or in the range of from about 5 nm and about 10 nm. As used herein the term nanoporous is characterized as having a plurality of nanopores characterized as having an average cross sectional dimension in the range of from about 0.2 nm and about 2.5 nm in the range of from about 0.5 nm and about 2.0 nm or in the range of from about 0.7 nm and about 1.0 nm. These pore sizes may be determined using various well established techniques including porosimetry. Where the supercapacitive particles including pseudocapacitive particles comprise carbon various embodiments include those wherein the carbon particles are micron or submicron sized spheres. Spherical carbon particles having particles size of a few micrometers or less may be obtained for example via hydrothermal syntheses. Submicrometer sized mesoporous carbon spheres can be derived for example from templating syntheses.

The invention is flexible in its ability to use various types of non stationary solid or semi solid compositions. In various embodiments these compositions are flowable dispersion or slurry of supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent. The range of electrode particle loadings is flexible and depends on the individual choice of particle type solvent and operating temperature and pressure. As may be expected though the loadings must be chosen so as to provide slurry or dispersion viscosities which allow flow through the device at the temperature and pressure chosen. As but one indication in some embodiments steady state shear viscosity of the flowable semi solid electrode composition of the energy storage device is between about 1 cP and 1 000 000 cP at the temperature of operation of the energy storage device. In some embodiments the viscosity of the electrode undergoing flow is less than about 10 000 cP. In other embodiments the viscosity is between about 100 cP and 10 000 cP. In those embodiments where a semi solid is used the volume percentage of ion storing solid phases may be between 5 and 70 and the total solids percentage including other solid phases such as conductive additives may be between 10 and 75 . In some embodiments the cell stack where charging occurs operates at a higher temperature to decrease viscosity or increase reaction rate while the receiver tanks for the semi solid may be at a lower temperature.

As shown in the Figures described more fully below embodiments of the device comprise at least paired sets of non stationary solid or semi solid compositions passing through the device. It should be appreciated that the architecture of the device may also include multiple pairs of such electrodes which may be arranged horizontally or vertically in parallel e.g. or in series e.g. . Such multiple pairs of electrodes may be stacked in a sandwich type or concentric tube in shell type configuration. Additionally in various other embodiments multiple positive electrodes may share a common negative electrodes and or multiple negative electrodes may share a common positive electrode. In still other embodiments different cells or portions of cells may be connected to different voltage potentials during charging or current collectors during discharging and may operate at different charge discharge rates.

In other embodiments the non stationary solid or semi solid composition is a tape of supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent capable of moving through the capacitive cell arrangement. These tapes may be free standing or may comprise matrices supported by chemically compatible electrically non conductive carrier sheets wherein the matrices comprise various binder systems used in the art for similar applications. Non limiting examples including ionomers polyester poly meth acrylates polyacids and or or polyesters polyvinylidene difluoride PVDF polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or polyvinyldichloride PVDC and are well known to those skilled in the art. These tapes must be capable of providing or allowing the ion mobility necessary for the operation of the energy storage device. Accordingly in certain embodiments the tapes contain the electrolytic solvents within the matrices of the tapes e.g. in a gel arrangement. In other embodiments the ion mobility is provided by passing a solvent free or solvent deficient tape through an electrolytic solvent during the operation of the capacitive cell.

In the operation of the device separate tapes will exist for carrying the positively charged supercapacitive electrode material and the other for negatively charged supercapacitive electrode material though compositionally the tapes may otherwise contain the same or different chemistries. In certain embodiments for purposes of handling and energy storage each tape is capable of being wound and or may be wound up onto spools. In some cases the tapes may be provided in a configuration similar to but not limited to those found in the two spools of a VHS tape where spools can be considered similar to reservoirs. Where one spool of a single tape will be for charged supercapacitive electrode material and the other spool will be for uncharged electrode supercapacitive material.

The supercapacitive electrode material may be applied continuously throughout or along the surface of the tape or in electrically isolated segments within or along the surface of the tape.

In the present application the presence of an electrolytic solvent is necessary to allow the ions to migrate from one electrode to the other during the operation of the device. As used herein the term electrolytic solvent refers either to a solvent comprising at least one electrolyte or a solvent which itself is an electrolyte i.e. an ionic liquid. The preferred electrolyte is characterized by poor electron mobility and high ion mobility. The electrolyte itself is intended to be highly conductive in the sense that it would have a high ion mobility that is the ability to quickly redistribution the positive and negative ions in an unbalanced manner between the positive and negative electrode or in local regions within the positive or negative electrode. Further the electrolyte is not intended to function through an electron charge transfer mechanism nor would the energy storage device operate in such a way that is the redox active range of the electrolyte used will be outside the potential range that will be used to charge the supercapacitive electrode particles. Generally the kinetics of the ion mobility especially through the ion permeable separator define the design parameters of the device.

In certain embodiments of the present invention s the electrolytic solvent of at least one electrode is very poorly and preferably not at all redox active. That is in the embodiments of the present invention the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically reversible oxidizable or reducible species. Otherwise the stored energies can be subject to degradation. In this way the present invention is distinguished from that of Chiang et al. U.S. Patent Application Publication 2010 0047671 wherein the electrodes comprise liquids which must be redox active in order to operate.

It is envisioned that the range of electrical potentials used for charging the supercapacitive electrodes particles is at a lower potential than the redox active range of either the supercapacitive electrodes particles or the electrolytic solution or both. All supercapacitive electrode materials including carbon electrode materials and electrolytic solutions undergo some degree of degradation after usually greater than 100 000 charge discharge cycles. Further in those embodiments where this charge discharge cycle is not redox active e.g. EDLCs or comprise pseudocapacitive materials the useful life and number of charge discharge cycles far exceeds that of a battery. This degradation occurs mainly through the irreversible oxidation or reduction of the electrode material s or the electrolyte. This degradation tends to affect the performance of the electrode material s or electrolyte over time. While the system may ultimately exhibit some irreversible redox behavior in the charge discharge potential window it is not beneficial to the performance of the electrode material s nor is such a process intended.

In various embodiments the electrolyte solvent is aqueous and comprises one or more soluble electrolyte comprising a halide sulfate hydroxide nitrate or other anions. In certain embodiments these anions are inert under the operating conditions contemplated.

In other embodiments the electrolytic solvent comprises a polar organic solvent such as an alcohol or aprotic organic solvent. The choice of polar organic solvents may include those traditionally used for flow battery applications. Preferred polar organic solvents include aliphatic nitriles including acetonitrile and propionitrile aliphatic esters including ethyl acetate methyl propionate ethyl propionate butyl lactone dimethylformamide 1 2 dimethoxyethane cyclic or diallylcarbonate esters including dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate dipropyl carbonate ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate nitromethane sulfolane or methylsulfalone. These solvents further comprise a soluble electrolyte comprising an anion cation pair wherein the choice of cation includes an alkali metal an alkaline earth metal a lanthanide a tetraalkyl ammonium cation aluminum or zinc and the choice of anion includes OH PF ClO BF CFSO or SbF.

The flowable electrode compositions can include various additives to improve the performance of the device i.e. the flowability and stability of the slurry or dispersion. In some embodiments it is preferred that the slurry or suspension be stable with respect to settling in other embodiments this feature is not required or even desired. As used herein a slurry or dispersion is considered stable when there is no observable particle settling in the suspension. In some embodiments the electrode composition is stable for at least 1 day at least 2 days at least 5 days or at least 30 days. The liquid phase of the semi solid slurry in such instances would comprise a solvent in which is dissolved an electrolyte salt and binders thickeners or other additives added to prevent settling and improve stability of the system provided such binders thickeners or other additives do not compromise the operation of the device. Such binders thickeners or other additives are well known to those in the art. In some embodiments the shear flow produced by the pumps provides additional stabilization of the suspension.

In still other embodiments the electrolytic solvent is an ionic liquid. As a class of materials ionic liquids are attractive because of their non volatility over a broad operating temperature window e.g. either within or beyond the range of about 50 C. to about 100 C. coupled with their wide usable voltage window. Ionic liquids may include those wherein the cation is ethylmethylimmidazolium tetraalkylammonium dialkylimidazolium trialkylimidazolium tetraalkylimidazolium alkylpyridinium dialkylpyrrolidinium dialkylpiperidinium tetraalkylphosphonium trialkylsulfonium or any combination thereof. Similarly the ionic liquid comprises an anion of BF B CN n CFBF CHBF CHCHBF CFBF CFBF n CFBF PF CFCO CFSO N SOCF N COCF SOCF N SOF N CN C CN SCN SeCN CuCl AlCl spyro bipyrrolidinium or any combination thereof. A preferred combination is ethyl methyl immidazolium trifluoromethane sulfonyl imide.

In other embodiments the ionic liquid further comprises zwitterions i.e. a molecule having a positive and a negative electrical charge on different atoms within the molecule whereby the resulting fluid comprises any ratio of the zwitterions and ionic liquid. Specific embodiments of this includes those mixtures of zwitterions to free ions in the range of from about 1 1000 to about 1000 1 in the range of from about 1 100 to about 100 1 and in the range of from about 1 10 to about 10 1 in each case in molar proportions.

Varying the electrode pore size s relative to the dimensions of the solvated ions i.e. the size of the ions including their respective solvate spheres provides for specific features described below. In various embodiments the energy storage device is characterized by a porous or nonporous carbon material where when uncharged both anions and cations reside in the pores or on the surface of the material in similar concentrations.

As has been previously described in WO 2008 069833 and WO 2009 123784 both of which are incorporated by reference for this purpose the relative dimensions of one or more of the solvated ions i.e. the size of the ions including their respective solvate spheres and the nanopores can affect the energy density of the device. Accordingly in certain embodiments devices comprises compositions wherein the solvated electrolyte is characterized as residing at least partially within one or more nanopores of the composition. In other embodiments devices comprises compositions wherein the relative dimensions of the solvated ions and the nanopores such that the average nanopore size is approximately equal to or less than the average diameter of the solvated ions of the electrolyte.

The ion permeable separator keeps the individual electrodes separate from one another and provides a conduit for the movement of the ions within the device. The ion permeable separator may be a membrane and if so may be any conventional membrane capable of ion transport. In one or more embodiments the membrane is a liquid impermeable membrane that permits the transport of ions therethrough namely a solid or gel ionic conductor. In other embodiments the membrane is a microporous polymer membrane infused with a liquid electrolyte that allows for the shuttling of ions between the capacitive zones of the device while preventing the transfer of electrons. Typical membrane materials may comprise for example ceramic or natural or synthetic organic polymer or gel polymer materials. Various types of ion separators are described in Arora et al. 2004 104 4419 4462 the teachings of which are incorporated by reference herein. In various embodiments the ion permeable separator comprises a polyolefin a fluorinated polymer a sulfonated polymer an alkoxylate polymer a ceramic or a copolymer or physical mixture or laminate thereof. Polyethylene polypropylene polyethylene oxide PMMA PVDF PTFE and Nafion represent non limiting exemplary materials for use in these embodiments.

The spacings between each respective current collector and the ion permeable membrane may be the same or may be different. In some embodiments the positive current collector and the ion permeable separator are separated by a first spacing distance and the negative current collector and the ion permeable separator are separated by a second spacing distance. These distances may be described in terms relative to the sizes of the supercapacitive particles passing through the associated capacitive zones such that at least one of the first or second spacing distances or both is in the range of about 2 times to about 1000 times the mean diameter of the supercapacitive particles passing therethrough preferably in the range of about 2 to about 10 times or about 5 to about 10 times the mean diameter of the supercapacitive particles.

In certain embodiments it is advantageous to use a relatively shallow channel geometry for each capacitive zone i.e. the mean depth of the channel thickness of the capacitive zone defined by the distance between the current collector and the ion permeable electrode is less than the mean width of the collector and the ion permeable electrode allows free passage of the slurry without clogging. In certain independent embodiments the ratio of depth to width is about 1 500 1 100 1 10 1 5 1 2 1 1. In other embodiments the ratio of depth to width is about 1 2 1 5 1 10 or even higher thereby reflecting a relatively deeper channel for example. While the cross section of one or both capacitive zones may have a constant cross section across the length of the capacitive zone the present invention is not so limited. In some embodiments the cross section of one or more capacitive zones may increase or decrease along the direction of the movement of the electrode material or may otherwise vary along this same direction e.g. increase decrease increase or decrease increase decrease wherein the changes in channel dimensions are continuous or stepwise or a combination of both.

The invention also teaches methods of storing and releasing energy and using or operating the devices described herein.

Various embodiments provide methods of operating an energy storage device a said energy storage device comprising i a positive electrode current collector a negative electrode current collector and an ion permeable separator separating the positive and negative electrode current collectors ii a positive electrode disposed between the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the positive electrode current collector the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining a positive capacitive zone accommodating the positive electrode iii a negative electrode disposed between the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the negative electrode current collector the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining a negative capacitive zone accommodating the negative electrode wherein at least one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species said method comprising b transporting at least one non stationary solid or semi solid composition into at least one capacitive zone during the operation of the device.

Various embodiments also provide methods of storing energy using an energy storage device a said energy storage device comprising i a positive electrode current collector a negative electrode current collector and an ion permeable separator separating the positive and negative electrode current collectors ii a positive electrode disposed between the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the positive electrode current collector the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining a positive capacitive zone accommodating the positive electrode iii a negative electrode disposed between the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the negative electrode current collector the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining negative capacitive zone accommodating the negative electrode wherein at least one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary including moveable or flowable solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species said method comprising b transporting a portion of an uncharged non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and a solvent comprising an electrolyte into the capacitive zone c applying an electric field is applied across the positive and negative electrode current collectors and d exposing said portion of uncharged non stationary solid or semi solid composition to said electric field for a time sufficient to charge the supercapacitive particles thereby producing a portion of charged non stationary solid or semi solid composition. The time to charge the supercapacitive particles may additionally include the time necessary for the electrolyte ions to migrate across the ion permeable separator to balance the particle charges.

Other embodiments further provide for replenishing the capacitive zone with another portion of uncharged non stationary including moveable or flowable solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and a solvent comprising an electrolyte and repeating step d .

While the embodiments described herein are generally described in terms such that the non stationary solid or semi solid electrode compositions move with respect to the current collectors e.g. are transported or delivered into at least one capacitive zone it should be apparent that the movement of the stationary solid or semi solid electrode compositions may also be described as being relative to the current collectors. That is in certain embodiments the current collectors and or the membranes move over or with respect to a stationary phase of solid or semi solid electrode compositions.

The movement of the uncharged supercapacitive particles into and the charged supercapacitive particles out of the respective capacitive zones may be continuous or intermittent e.g. stop start or plug flow . The choice of such movement may interdepend on the viscosities and stabilities of the respective electrodes and or the kinetics of the system. Similarly the efficiency of the charging will depend on various parameters including the speed with which charge is distributed across the supercapacitive particles in the electrode composition related to the surface conductivity and the time and degree of interconnective contact between the particles and with the respective current collector the mobility of the electrolyte ions the speed of migration of the ions across the ion permeable separator s i.e. the redistribution of ions and the time given for this to occur i.e. including the length of the capacitive zone s as a function of electrode flow speed .

Intermittent flow or segmented movement may be preferred for example when the rate of movement of the ions within the semisolid or solid electrode material is fast when compared to the speed of the semisolid or solid electrode material through the capacitive cell and or when the electrical conductivity of the electrode material is such that the charging of the particles is substantially faster than the ability of the ions to redistribute. In these cases it may be useful to provide the semisolid slurries to the capacitive cells in electrically isolated quantities e.g. in sequential batch wise flows so as to separate the charged from uncharged portions of the flow. Similarly in separate embodiments these tapes may comprise electrically insulated segments of supercapacitive electrode material designed to as to each be able to pass sequentially or in parallel through the capacitive cell. These segments may be sized so as to complement the size of the area of the respective current collector and or ion permeable separator. That is in separate embodiments the surface areas presented by these segments of supercapacitive electrode material may be less than the same as or greater than the surface area of the corresponding current collector and or ion permeable separator.

In some embodiments the rate of charge or discharge of the device is increased by increasing the instant amount of one or both flow electrodes in electronic communication with the current collector. In other embodiments the conductivity of the semi solid supercapacitive material is increased by at least partially coating the particles with a conductive coating material which has higher electron conductivity than the solid for example a metal characterized by a having low corrosivity under the particular reaction and or storage conditions. Individual embodiments provide that the particles are coated with about 1.5 wt about 3.0 wt about 5 wt about 10 wt about 15 wt or about 20 wt metal having this low corrosivity under the reaction or storage conditions.

The means for moving the supercapacitive electrode materials through the device depend on the specific nature of the supercapacitive electrode materials. In the case of slurries or dispersions this can be achieved by gravity conveyorized belt or various pumps. In smaller devices peristaltic pumps may be effectively used to move the materials. In the case of tapes comprising supercapacitive particles conveyor belts or spool to spool tension may be used. The invention should not be construed as limited by the ways in which this transport is achieved and it is well within the skill of the ordinary artisan to achieve this effect. Again the movement of the supercapacitive electrode materials into and out of the capacitive zones may also be achieved by moving the current collector membrane assemblies relative to stationary supercapacitive electrode materials.

The operating temperature of the capacitive cell can be elevated as necessary to improve the ionic conductivity of the membrane or alter the viscosity of the electrode composition or the mobility of the ions therein.

In certain embodiments the energy storage device is capable of achieving a coulombic cycle efficiencies of least about 70 least about 75 least about 80 least about 85 least about 90 at least about 95 at least about 96 at least about 97 at least about 97.5 at least about 98 or at least about 99 .

Once the non stationary solid or semi solid composition of the electrode s are charged they can be stored in separate energy storage reservoirs. Additional embodiments provide structures which allow for methods and the methods themselves further comprising removing the charged supercapacitive particles from the capacitive zone and transporting them to an energy storage reservoir. In the case where the charged supercapacitive electrode composition is a dispersion or slurry this reservoir may be an electrically insulated tank or similar vessel. The energy storage reservoir will store the charged supercapacitive electrode material along with some electrolytic solvent at a solids concentration ranging from about 1 vol to about 99 vol though higher solids content is generally preferred if only for economic reasons. Accordingly separate embodiments provide that the solids concentration in the energy storage reservoir be at least 40 vol at least 50 vol at least 60 vol at least 70 vol at least 80 vol or at least 90 vol the remaining volume will be occupied by electrolytic solvent.

The relative solids loadings in the energy storage reservoirs may be higher lower or the same as the solids loadings in the materials passing through the capacitive cells.

In some embodiments the electrode particles in the semi solid are allowed to settle or otherwise be filtered or separated from the liquid portion and are collected and stored separately in other embodiments the electrode particles and the electrolytic solvent are separated by filtration optionally then later to be re mixed with electrolytic solvent to form the flow electrode as needed. In special circumstances reflecting the choice of materials these processes may be done under reduced pressure reduced moisture or reduced oxygen conditions. When this separation feature is further considered the energy storage device can double or primarily serve as a device for desalinating sea water or other salt containing streams e.g. where the electrolytic solvent is brine or some other salt and the electrode charge and charging conditions are configured so as to partly or completely remove the brine NaCl or some other salt from the incoming electrode composition . In the same way other ions can be selectively removed from the incoming electrode composition and the device used for cleaning said composition.

Where the charged electrode composition is a solid tape for example the tape may be rolled onto spools or reels for storage. See for example . In one embodiment semi solid A and semi solid B pass between rotating metal current collectors and ion permeable separator while shown as rotating the current collectors may be flat or curved . Electric potential is applied across the current collectors to charge the supercapacitive electrode particles for energy storage. In a second embodiment the supercapacitive tapes feed from spool reservoirs of uncharged electrodes and onto spool reservoirs and of charged electrodes.

In recovering the stored energy the process is reversed. Therefore in various embodiments methods of releasing stored energy using a device a said device comprising i a positive electrode current collector a negative electrode current collector and an ion permeable separator separating the positive and negative electrode current collectors ii a positive electrode disposed between the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the positive electrode current collector the positive electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining a positive capacitive zone accommodating the positive electrode iii a negative electrode disposed between the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator and in electrical communication with the negative electrode current collector the negative electrode current collector and the ion permeable separator defining negative capacitive zone accommodating the negative electrode wherein at least one of the positive and negative electrodes comprises a non stationary including moveable or flowable solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and an electrolytic solvent and wherein the electrolytic solvent is substantially free of electrochemically oxidizable or reducible species wherein said method comprises b transporting a portion of an charged non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising charged supercapacitive particles such that the charged supercapacitive particles come into electrical communication with the adjacent current collector c discharging the charged supercapacitive particles through the adjacent current collector. Again the invention also teaches that this energy releasing process further comprises replenishing the capacitive zone with another portion of charged non stationary solid or semi solid composition comprising supercapacitive particles and repeating step c . Additional embodiments provide structures which allow for methods and the methods themselves comprising removing the discharged supercapacitive particles from the capacitive zone and transporting them to a reservoir.

Again the types of flow and the kinetics of the ion migration affect the design and operation of the energy releasing process in a manner similar to the energy storing process. Accordingly the same comments provided for the energy storing process apply here.

Referring to the figures the concept of the invention is shown in and and an exemplary capacitive cell of an energy storage device is shown in and .

Other embodiments provide for a double or multiple cell stack closed loop system enabling charging of uncharged and discharging of previously charged slurry at the same time. This feature may be of particular importance to simultaneously respond to fast fluctuations in energy production and energy consumption which are two inherently independent parameters. In such embodiments each half cell can use a flow field or channel to direct the flow of active material over the surface of a polarized current collector. A porous separator is then used to electrically insulate opposing half cells while permitting the exchange of ions.

Beyond the individual energy storage devices this invention includes those embodiments in which at least one such energy storage device is incorporated into transportation systems including automobiles for example for use in plug in hybrids or all electric vehicles individual private dwellings or residences and into power generation and or grid systems particularly those where the generation of power is non constant e.g. wind turbine or water wave systems or solar farms.

The following Examples while non limiting as to the scope of the present invention s are considered individual embodiments thereof.

The tests described herein were completed on a static configuration of the charging cell with a well reservoir to demonstrate the concept of using slurries or dispersions as supercapacitive energy storage media. In these experiments all configurations symmetrical identical half cells were used. The half cell design used 99.9 pure gold current collectors with 15 mm 15 mm chambers having 0.5 mm deep side walls yielding a total volume of 0.1125 cm i.e. 1.5 cm 1.5 cm 0.05 cm . Each reservoir was filled with slurry paste in entirety. In all cases 2 PVDF separators Millipore Durapore polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF Membrane Filter 0.1 micrometer pore size 0.125 mm thick Cat. No. VVLP04700 were used.

For experiments using activated carbon the activated carbon was vacuum dried at 150 C. for 48 hours prior to use and the measured weight was based on values taken after vacuum drying. Activated carbons used included 1 Kuraray YP 17 YP 50F with the following properties particle diameter 3 20 micron ash content 1.0 max total surface area 1600 1700 m g Iodine Absorption 1700 1800 Benzene adsorption 45 55 and pH 5 8 2 Mast Carbon Ltd. Activated carbon beads 250 500 micron individual particle size. The carbon beads are derived via pyrolysis of a phenolic resin. The beads have a surface area of 1100 m gram.

Kuraray YP 17 YP 50F activated carbon was placed in a vacuum oven at 150 C. for 24 hours at which time the carbon powder was backfilled with air the process was repeated once and the activated carbon was removed from the oven giving 5.0 g of activated carbon powder. To the powder was added 0.25 g of carbon black acetylene prepared by vacuum oven in a similar way . To the mixed carbon powders was added 11.7 grams of 1M sodium sulfate aqueous solution prepared from deionized water. The whole was mixed with a spatula giving a viscous paste the paste was then subjected to sonication for 30 minutes. The resulting paste was allowed to remain unused for at least 24 hours after sonication.

A paste with YP 17 YP 50F excluding carbon black was also prepared in a similar manner at a similar carbon concentration of about 31 carbon in 1M sodium sulfate aqueous.

For slurries of the Mast Carbon beads 250 500 micron the slurries were prepared in the same manner but at a lower concentration. Mast Carbon Beads were used 50 mg per half cell Half Cell Volume 0.1125 cc in 1M sodium sulfate corresponding to about 17 wt solids.

Charging Cell prepared as follows The electrode slurries with either YP 17 YP 50F or both YP 17 YP 50F with 5 carbon black was placed in the half cell on gold current collector with the aid of a spatula such that the reservoir was filled completely but not above the wall level. The Mast Carbon bead slurry was loaded on the half cells by pipetting the slurry onto into the reservoir without any other manipulation. Each supercapacitor half cell was then fused together with a separate Durapore membrane where the two half cells with their separators were sandwiched together forming a capacitor cell. The Durapore membrane had 0.1 micron pores and was previously soaked in brine for 30 minutes or until the membrane had completely been saturated by the brine as judged by its transition from a white opaque appearance to a translucent appearance. All measurements and manipulations were completed in conditions where the assembled supercapacitor was submerged in a 1M sodium sulfate aqueous solution. The resulting configuration was then sealed with a plastic bag sealer where the tabs of the current collectors were exposed.

Sodium Sulfate was purchased from Fischer Chemical CAS 7647 14 5 . Carbon Black Acetylene 100 compressed 99.9 metal basis 80 m g was purchased from Alfa Aesar Stock No. 29723 . Only deionized water was used for all experiments.

Open circuit voltage galvanostatic cycling and potential at zero charge measurements were completed with a Biologic potentiostat Model VMP3 controlled with software version 10.2.

The specific capacitance F g of the carbon in the respective slurries was calculated using the cyclic voltammograms by taking the integral of the current for the entire voltage window during the sweep from the highest voltage point to the lowest voltage point. In that way an average 4 mass . For cyclic voltammograms dV dt the scan rate was fixed and I current varied within the Potential range. Thus capacitance was calculated for the entire potential window of the sweep from 0.6 to 0.4 V For Mast Carbon Beads or from 0.8 to 0.2 For YP 17 activated carbon . Thus capacitance calculated can be more or less as the average capacitance for the potential range. The mass in all cases was the combined carbon mass dry weight of the anode and cathode.

For the galvanostatic series I current is fixed and dV dt is taken as an average the slope dV dt of the discharge period from 0.95 to 0 V . The range of 1.0V to 0.95 V during the discharge is excluded because of the sudden drop in potential observed in galvanostatic discharge due to charge and ion redistribution effects.

The potentials obtained from the galvanostatic series were all taken at the end of the respective open circuit voltage periods. In all cases galvanostatic charging and discharging were completed at the same rates at approximately 100 10 milliamperes per gram of carbon material combined dry carbon mass of anode and cathode All materials charged to 1.0V galvanostatically and held at 1.0V potentiostatically for 3 minutes. At the end of the 3 minute potentiostatic hold at 1.0V the open circuit voltage OCV period began. Discharge was completed at same current as when charging and then held at 0V potentiostatically for 5 minutes followed by a 5 minute OCV period before the start of the next charging cycle in the series. 8 charging discharging cycles at OCV periods of 0 min 5 min 15 min 30 min 1 hour 2 hours 4 hours and 8 hours make up one galvanostatic sequence .

As shown in the capacitance is a function of the area enclosed between the charge and discharge line of the CV curve. While the capacitance of the proof of concept stage setup is still rather small at 17 F g normalized to the solid part of the slurry it is clearly evident that energy storage and harvesting from electrochemical flow capacitors is possible reproducible and stable.

After several hours most of the initial potential remained. After 490 minutes the systems using YP 17 with 5 carbon black YP 17 without carbon black and Mast 250 500 micron beads showed residual potentials of 0.81 0.83 and 0.69 V respectively corresponding to losses of 0.19 0.17 and 0.31 V respectively . While the losses were on the order of 20 30 for this prototype system the losses did asymptote to relatively constant values.

Carbon beads referred to as CB derived from phenolic resin were obtained from MAST carbon United Kingdom and Antoxineer People s Republic of China . MAST 125 250 CB01 average particle size 161 35 m and MAST 250 500 CB02 average particle size 385 53 m carbon beads had an average volume weighted pore size of 8.6 nm and a BET surface area of 1341 m g. Antoxineer spherical active carbon granules CB03 had an average particle size of 315 49 m with an average volume weighted pore size of 1.2 nm and a BET surface area of 1569 m g. TiC CDC was obtained from dry chlorination of TiC with a particle size of 2 m from Alfa Aesar Stock 40178 at 1000 C. for 6 hours with subsequent annealing in hydrogen at 600 C. for 3 hours. The particle size remained unchanged after chlorination. The volume weighed average pore size was 1.1 nm and the BET surface area 1815 m g. See and and TABLE 1 below.

Nitrogen gas sorption was carried out in a Quadrasorb gas sorption instrument Quantachrome USA . The average volume weighted pore size was derived from the cumulative pore volume assuming slit shaped pores and using the quenched solid density functional theory QSDFT algorithm. See and Table 1.

The composition of the carbon slurry determines its rheological and electrochemical properties. In particular as described above the concentration of carbon particles particle size shape and carrier fluid electrolyte viscosity have a significant effect on the performance of the carbon slurry and can be altered to obtain improvements in rheological and electrochemical properties for enhanced flow and performance. In this study carbon slurries based on spherical porous carbons with a high surface area were tested. In a suspension spherical carbon beads with a narrow particle size distribution provide rheological advantages minimizing the flow induced particle size segregation and clogging such that a smooth flow pattern can be achieved. Considering this advantage phenolic resin derived activated carbon beads with average particle sizes of 161 m CB01 315 m CB03 and 383 m CB02 and carbide derived carbon powder obtained from a titanium carbide precursor TiC CDC average particle size ca. 2 m were tested. Slurries were prepared by mixing the carbon beads or CDC with carbon black 100 compressed Alfa Aesar USA in ethanol to achieve a 9 1 weight ratio. The carbon black was used as a conductive additive. An appropriate amount of electrolyte either 1M NaSO aq or 1.25M TEA BFin propylene carbonate was added to achieve the desired electrolyte carbon ratio. The ethanol was removed via evaporation prior to testing. Microparticulate TiC CDC was analyzed to enable comparison of the tested slurries against a material with a high intrinsic capacitance. X ray microtomography showed that for a 3 1 mixture electrolyte carbon by mass of CB01 resting in a 1 mm capillary most carbon beads were in direct physical contact creating a conductive 3D network i.e. high bead connectivity that enabled electron transport within the active material. By increasing the electrolyte mass ratio from 3 1 to 4 1 the slurry was observed to exhibit improved macroscopic flowability with honey like characteristic. Rheological analyses indicated that with increased shear rate a continuous decrease in the viscosity of the slurry occurred i.e. shear thinning and a change in the flow characteristics of the slurry was observed .

The design of the flow capacitor cell is important to facilitate the flow of the capacitive slurry i.e. mitigate the potential for clogging and maximize system performance. In particular the performance of the flow cell design depended on the properties of the slurry used for capacitive storage. Several designs were considered tested and evaluated before selecting the cell design used herein . The chosen cell design provided the high level of flow control required for prototype benchmarking and also enabled testing of operation modes similar to the ones which are anticipated to be encountered for a full scale electrochemical flow capacitor device. In the selected design a single flow channel with a depth of 1.6 mm ran through each half cell. Half cells consisted of a stainless steel current collector recessed in a polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE flow manifold. Polymer membranes typically used in supercapacitors and batteries were used as the isolative separator between the two half cells. Valves with a cross sectional diameter similar to the flow channel were installed at the inlet and outlet of the cell to minimize the clogging and provide physical electrical confinement of the slurry within the cell.

A Zeiss Supra 50VP scanning electron microscope Carl Zeiss AG Germany operating at 3 kV was used for electron microscopy. A Skyscan 1172 Skyscan US Inc. USA was used for X ray microtomography voxel resolution 1.92 m . Viscosity was measured using a TA Instruments USA AR rheometer in a rotational concentric cylinder geometry at room temperature.

All measurements were carried out at ambient temperature with a VMP3 or SP150 potentiostat galvanostat BioLogic France . Experiments in aqueous electrolyte were conducted in air and the organic electrolyte testing was carried out in an argon filled glove box.

Cyclic voltammetry was carried out at 2 5 10 20 50 and 100 mV s scan rates for a voltage window of 0.60 and 0.75 V aqueous and 2.7 V PC . From cyclic voltammetry the capacitance is derived using the equation 1 

Galvanostatic charge discharge was conducted at 30 mA for 0.6V aqueous and 2.7 V organic windows with charge times of 120 s. The series resistance was calculated from the ohmic drop observed at the start of the discharge cycle and the capacitance was derived from the slope of the discharge curves. All values for the capacitance were normalized by the weight of the carbon material not the total slurry mass to enable a direct comparison with conventional supercapacitor electrodes which are also normalized to the content of active material . The specific capacitance Cwas calculated from galvanostatic cycling using equation 2 

Equilibrium capacitance was extracted from chronoamperometry the methods used in chronoamperometry is described in D. Brogioli R. Zhao P. M. Biesheuvel 2011 4 772 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety for this teaching . After a 30 min discharge period at 0 V the cell was charged to a certain cell potential e.g. 2.7 V for 5 min and then discharged to 0 V for 5 min see e.g. and . While the current that was measured during charging was superimposed by the leakage current of the system integration of the discharge curve directly yields the charge of the two electrode setup. The capacitance was extracted from the discharge curves via equation 3 

The electrochemical flow capacitor prototype consisted of two stainless steel current collectors recessed in PTFE flow manifolds. 6 mm diameter throughputs allowed slurry to flow into and out of the charge discharge cell with a 38 6 mmactive area per half cell . Two 1600 m thick PTFE gaskets provided lateral confinement of the slurry and a polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF membrane with a mesh width of 100 nm Durapore Merck Millipore Germany served as a separator. Six nylon screws along the length of the cell ensured sealing of the enclosed carbon slurry during charge discharge and flow operations.

Prior to intermittent flow testing slurry was pumped into the electrochemical flow capacitor prototype via syringe. The cell then underwent 20 cyclic voltammetry cycles from 0 0.75 V at 10 mV s to precondition the slurry and to ensure that the internal pore space was ion accessible. The cell was then held potentiostatically at 0 V to dissipate any remaining charge then charged potentiostatically at 0.75 V for 20 minutes. At the end of the charging period the charged slurry was withdrawn from the cell using a syringe. The slurry was then returned to the cell and discharged potentiostatically at 0 V for 20 minutes. The resulting chronoamperometric profile was then analyzed to determine the voltage and coulombic efficiencies of the system. Voltage efficiency was calculated using the following equation 

Slurries based on carbon beads 3 1 mixture and CDC 6 1 mixture were observed to behave pronouncedly capacitive when charged to 0.6 V in 1M NaSO aq and 2.7 V in 1.25M TEA BFin PC. The organic electrolyte exhibited a lower specific capacitance for CB01 44 F g at 2 mV s when compared to the performance of CB01 in aqueous electrolyte 95 F g at 2 mV s . TiC CDC in aqueous electrolyte demonstrated the highest capacitance with 109 F g at 2 mV s while the CB03 beads demonstrated the lowest capacitance 69 F g under the same conditions. The measured specific capacitance of the carbon slurries translates into an energy density of approximately 0.3 Wh liter for the aqueous carbon slurries e.g. comparable to the potential energy of water at 100 m height difference used for hydropower and 3.7 Wh liter of the PC based carbon slurry close to the values for commercial packed supercapacitor cells. Since the carbon weight accounts for about 30 of the total mass of the packaged commercial supercapacitors a factor of 3 4 is frequently used to extrapolate the energy power of the device from the performance of the material. However this extrapolation is believed to be valid only for electrodes with the thickness and weight loading similar to that of commercial electrodes using 100 200 m of carbon film on a current collector. For an electrochemical flow capacitor for which the mass of the current collectors separator and other materials is small relative to the mass of the slurry the total energy density is roughly equal to that of the slurry. Thus even a non optimized system shows very respectable energy density in these preliminary tests. Values of up to ca. 7 Wh liter can be achieved for ionic liquid electrolytes with a 4 V stability window yielding a projected capacitance of ca. 40 F g.

All studied carbons showed a moderate equivalent series resistance ESR of ca. 4 cmwhen used in a toothpaste like flowable 3 1 mass ratio of carbon in 1M NaSO. This value increased by a factor of 2.7 when increasing the channel depth of the flow cell from 0.8 to 1.6 mm. The rate performance of the carbon slurries remained limited with significant losses in the initial specific capacitance at scan rates faster than 10 mV s . Nonetheless even a low current density of 0.35 A g enabled 8 full galvanostatic charge and discharge cycles within a 3 minute period 2.6 cycles per minute one cycle every 23 seconds . The corresponding gravimetric capacitance from galvanostatic charge discharge was observed to be similar to the values obtained from cyclic voltammetry CB01 102 F g in aqueous and 45 F g in organic electrolyte . Moreover the galvanostatic cycling performance was found to be stable with cycle efficiencies greater than 99 for the first 2250 charge discharge cycles .

The time dependent loss of the open circuit cell potential self discharge a common phenomenon in supercapacitors was found to be higher for aqueous slurries than for organic carbon slurries . For 20 minutes of charging to maximum cell potential 0.75 V for aqueous and 2.7 V for organic electrolyte the open circuit voltage dropped to 16 of the initial voltage 0.75 V after 24 hrs for 1M NaSOaqueous electrolyte but remained at a high level of 2.3 V 85 for the organic electrolyte. The latter while being a faster decay than observed in optimized commercial packed cells was still in the range of values reported for supercapacitors. We note that charging for a longer period will further decrease the loss of potential over time and the separate storage of the positively and negatively polarized slurries is expected to further decrease self discharge by eliminating leakage current across the porous separator.

In terms of specific capacitance both cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic charge discharge yielded a specific capacitance which was rate dependent i.e. depended on scan rate or current density . This was attributed to the dynamic effects associated with transport resistance inside micro and mesopores and across the separator. As found by chronoamperometry the intrinsic equilibrium capacitance of CB01 aqueous 125 F g organic 49 F g was comparable yet higher than the capacitance derived from rate dependent methods aqueous 22 organic 9 . When compensating for the leakage current the coulombic efficiency of the prototype was observed to be 98.5 which was in a very good agreement with the coulombic efficiency derived from galvanostatic charge discharge ca. 99 .

In order to evaluate the dynamic energy storage ability of the electrochemical flow capacitor carbon slurry CB01 based on the aqueous electrolyte was tested in an intermittent flow configuration. The main goal of this test was to verify that initially charged carbon particles maintain their charge after hydraulic handling. The voltage efficiency was observed to reach 55.7 while the coulombic efficiency was around 97.7 . The low voltage efficiency was attributed to the significant voltage drop during the time in which the slurry rests outside the electrochemical cell. One important distinction is that the self discharge mechanism in the electrochemical flow capacitor is different than that in static supercapacitors as such the potential drop in the electrochemical flow capacitor was not due to the significant loss of stored charge. Indeed as seen from the high coulombic i.e. current efficiency the potential drop is mainly caused by ion redistributionduring the time the slurry rests outside the electrochemical cell. It is observed that while the leakage current for our prototype cell can be up to 44 of the total charge it can be significantly minimized through further optimization of the cell design.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of these teachings and all such are contemplated hereby. For example in addition to the embodiments described herein the present invention contemplates and claims those inventions resulting from the combination of features of the invention cited herein and those of the cited prior art references which complement the features of the present invention. Similarly it will be appreciated that any described material feature or article may be used in combination with any other material feature or article and such combinations are considered within the scope of this invention.

The disclosures of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in this document are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

