---

title: System and method for running applications from computer devices
abstract: A system and method is described to allow web applications to be run from Wi-Fi capable computer devices independent of the operating system of the computer devices. The web applications are stored in a web server which also acts as a wireless access point. Peripherals, which are locally accessible by users and are associated with certain functions of the web applications, are operatively connected to the web server. The web pages of the web application are sent via the Wi-Fi network to the computer devices allowing the user of the computer devices to use the web application as well as their associated peripherals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09304781&OS=09304781&RS=09304781
owner: DOMINOPOS PTE LTD
number: 09304781
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20120924
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 National Phase Entry Application from PCT SG2012 000352 filed Sep. 24 2012 designating the United States and also claims priority to Singapore Application No. 201106990 3 filed Sep. 27 2011. The disclosures for each of the referenced applications are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

The present invention relates to a system and method that allows web applications to be run from computer devices independent of the operating system of the computer devices.

With the advances in technology the use of computer devices mobile phone tablets desktops and laptops etc has become more prevalent and has now permeated into other aspects of our everyday life. Today a computer device can not only be used for communication internet telephone chatting entertainment games music videos photos work document processing but it can also be used for other applications like monitoring and controlling industrial installations transactional payments remote medical diagnosis energy monitoring customer relationship management marketing and the list goes on. However the ease of deployment of these other applications is hampered by the limited interoperability of computer devices.

Computer devices cover a large spectrum have different operating systems Windows Mobile IOS Android RIM etc and do not have all standard extension port implementation like USB to add peripherals. And even in the case where a computer device does have an extension port its implementation may not be standard. For example the Apple iPhone does not support USB On The Go. The peripherals will also require specific software drivers for the operating system to communicate with it.

It is possible to install the operating system compatible application on the computer device itself and connect the peripheral directly to the computer device. However this paradigm suffers from poor scalability as each time a computer device wants to initiate use of an application the operating system specific application has to be installed on the computer device. Moreover the number of applications that can run at any one time on a computer device will be limited by the number of ports on the computer device that are available to connect to the associated peripherals.

Therefore the object of the invention is to provide a solution that overcomes the above disadvantages or at least provides a novel system and method that allows web applications to be run from computer devices.

According to an embodiment a computing device is described to allow for a web application to be run from any Wi Fi capable computer device having a browser independent of its operating system. The computing device has a web server having a web application and a wireless access point for wireless communication with the computer device. The computing device also has a port which a peripheral device is connected to. The peripheral device is thus locally accessible to a user. The peripheral device is associated with a function of the web application. The computing device also has a processor having an operating system and a device driver for allowing the web application to communicate with the peripheral device. In operation a web page of the web application is loaded wirelessly onto the browser of the computer device and thereafter a user can use the computer device to select on the web page the function of the web application which then sends instructions to the peripheral device.

In another embodiment the web page of the web application has computer device specific cascading style sheets. In another embodiment the computing machine has a housing. In another embodiment the peripheral device is integrated mechanically within the housing or is an independent device external to the housing.

In another embodiment the operating system is Linux. In another embodiment the computing machine has internet connecting capabilities.

In another embodiment a method is described to allow for a web application to be run from any Wi Fi capable computer device having a browser independent of its operating system. The method involves establishing wireless connection between the computer device and a wireless access point. The wireless access point is operatively connected to a web server and a peripheral device which is locally accessible to a user and the web server has a web application. A web page of the web application is then loaded onto the browser of the computer device via the wireless connection. A user then uses the computer device to select on the web page a function of the web application the peripheral device being associated with the function of the web application. A processor having an operating system and a device driver then interfaces the web application and the peripheral device allowing the web application to send instructions to the peripheral device.

In another embodiment the step of loading a web page of the web application onto the browser of the computer device via the wireless connection further comprises loading the computer device specific cascading style sheets of the web page onto the browser of the computer device.

In another embodiment a further step of providing an Application Programming Interface and a toolkit is provided to help customers develop their own web applications and integrate their own new peripheral devices.

In another embodiment a method is described for deploying web applications for use with computer devices in a location by installing a computing machine in the location.

Referring to the drawings shows an exemplary system having a computer base and computer devices . Computer devices have a browser for example Internet Explorer Safari Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome and the capability to connect to a Wi Fi network. The browser can be a webkit browser. Examples of computer devices can non exhaustively include mobile phones smart phones tablets laptops desktops and notebooks.

The computer base has a wireless access point module a web server module and a processor . The computer base also has a peripheral device module . The wireless access point module acts as an access point that also supports all security mechanisms of a Wi Fi network. Web server module contains web applications and a cascading style sheet layer that makes the web applications look like it is a native application of the computer devices .

The processor has an operating system and device drivers for communication with peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices can non exhaustively include external memory auxiliary storage devices peripheral displays scanners printers keyboards Bluetooth devices Near Field Communications readers Zigbee devices sensors pin pads. The operating system is preferably Linux due to its ease in adding peripheral devices.

The peripheral device module can have a device hub such as a USB hub with many ports for connection to the peripheral devices . The computer base can have an external housing to encapsulate the processor and the hardware components of the wireless access point module web server module and the peripheral device module . The peripheral devices can be integrated mechanically within the housing or can be separate independent devices external to the housing.

The computer base also has connection to the Internet via means which can be cellular Ethernet DSL WiMAX Wi Fi or any other internet connecting means known in the art.

In operation a user uses the computer device to select the Wi Fi network created by the wireless access point module . A password may need to be entered. A user then enters the IP address of the web server module on the address bar of the computer device browser. Another password may be required to be entered to allow access to the web server module . The entry of this password may be a one time thing and subsequent connections to the web server module will not require a password to be entered. The password entered may also determine if that computer device has administrative or user privileges.

The information on the type of computer device is sent to the web server module . The web server in the computer base has an initial web page. The cascading style sheets layer provides for a plurality of computer device specific cascading style sheets to cater for different types of computer devices . The initial web page and the corresponding computer device specific cascading style sheets will then be sent to the computer device . In some instances depending on the rendering of the web page on the browser of the computer device the browser may appear hidden to the user. For example the address bar search bar back and forward buttons may disappear such that it may appear to the user that the browser is no longer being used to display the web page.

The computer device browser will then display the initial web page with formatting modifications by the computer device specific cascading style sheets to give the user the same look and feel that he is accustomed to when normally running applications on his computer device. On the initial web page a user will be able to select from a plurality of web applications. Each web application has an entry web page. The cascading style sheets layer provides for a plurality of computer device specific cascading style sheets to cater for different computer devices .

The web applications that a user can view and access is dependent on whether the computer device has administrative or user privileges. When a user selects a particular web application the entry web page of that web application and the corresponding computer device specific cascading style sheets will be sent to and displayed on the computer device browser. On the entry web page a user can select from a plurality of tasks actions. Each task action can have a series of web pages. Each web page in the series has a plurality of computer device specific cascading style sheets to cater for different computer devices . The selected particular task action can be associated with a peripheral device which is connected to the peripheral device module .

For illustration purposes the selected particular task action can be printing a document and the associated peripheral device can be a printer. When a user selects the printing task the first web page of the corresponding series with the corresponding computer device specific cascading style sheets will be sent to and displayed on the computer device browser. The web application will then send instructions to the printer to execute the printing task.

In an embodiment a plurality of peripheral devices can interact with one another. For example a barcode scanner can send information to a cash register device. In another embodiment a peripheral device can be used to extend the connectivity network of the system to peripheral devices . For example a ZigBee device being connected to the peripheral device module can create a wireless network for communication to wireless temperature sensor devices.

A variety of different web applications can be used in this invention applications that span the different sectors like healthcare Banking and Financial services Retail Insurance Industrial etc. From this disclosure one skilled in the art can appreciate that users using iPads Android tablets Blackberries etc can access the same applications and their peripherals regardless of the operating system iOS Android Blackberry OS and without installing any client software or drivers. The disclosure also teaches the use of cascading style sheets to make the application look like the computer device is running a native application giving users the look and feel that they are accustomed to with their computer devices.

An Application Programming Interface API and a suite of tools will also be provided for value added resellers or customers as means to integrate their own new peripheral devices which will help them to develop their own web applications and services. The computer base with its peripheral device module also acts as a local connection point for customers to locally access i.e. within the customers premises and easily physically connect new peripheral devices .

From this disclosure one skilled in the art can also see how easy it is to deploy the computer base to any premises to achieve the advantage of the invention. Addition of web applications and its associated peripherals are easy due to the API provided and the fact that the invention provides for a local connection point. Also current computer devices can be used without modification all that the computer devices require is a browser and the capability to connect to a Wi Fi network.

In another embodiment the computer base can have a plurality of processors . The additional processors may be dedicated to perform cryptographic functions. In another embodiment the computer base can be a Printed Circuit Board. In another embodiment the computer base can be module that can be integrated with existing hardware at the deployment site. In another embodiment the computer base can be powered by fixed power or by battery.

Referring to the drawings shows an exemplary method in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention. A user first connects to a Wi Fi network with his computer device in step . At the centre of the Wi Fi network is a wireless access point which is operatively connected to a web server the web server having web applications. The web server is also connected to peripherals which are locally accessible to users and are associated with certain functions of the web applications.

In step a web page of the web application is loaded onto the computer device browser via the Wi Fi network. In step on the web page the user selects a function provided by the web application. In step the operating system and device drivers work together to provide a communication interface between the web application and the peripheral device such that the web application can communicate with the peripheral device. In step the web application sends instructions to the peripheral device.

While exemplary embodiments pertaining to the invention have been described and illustrated it will be understood by those skilled in the technology concerned that many variations or modifications involving particular design implementation or construction are possible and may be made without deviating from the inventive concepts described herein.

