---

title: Synthesized-beam RFID reader system with gain compensation and unactivated antenna element coupling suppression
abstract: A synthesized-beam transceiver system steers a beam of a two-dimensional antenna array by activating a first subset of antenna elements to orient the beam in a first direction and subsequently activating a second subset of the antenna elements to orient the beam in a different direction. The system also electrically connects antenna elements that are inactive, not in the first subset, or not in the second subset to a reference potential of the array.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09178277&OS=09178277&RS=09178277
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 09178277
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are particularly useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions.

A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave may respond by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag either itself generates the other RF wave or forms the wave by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The backscattered RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a time a destination an encrypted message an electronic signature other attribute s any combination of attributes and any other suitable data. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data it can learn about the tag and or the item that hosts the tag.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna system a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the logical section may include a cryptographic algorithm which relies on one or more passwords or keys stored in tag memory. In earlier RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag can be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Synthesized beam antennas SBAs use multiple antenna elements to generate radio frequency RF radiation patterns with varying shapes and orientations. These radiation patterns can be used to receive or transmit signals in particular directions. However in some cases radiation patterns oriented in different directions may have different power. For example a radiation pattern oriented in a particular direction may have higher power than a radiation pattern oriented in a different direction. Since the effectiveness of many antenna applications is directly related to the power of the generated radiation pattern having radiation patterns with reduced power may be undesirable.

Some embodiments are directed to methods and systems for steering a beam of a two dimensional antenna array by activating or driving a first subset of antenna elements to orient the beam in a first direction electrically connecting at least one antenna element not in the first subset to a reference potential of the antenna array and subsequently activating or driving a second subset of the antenna elements to orient the beam in a second direction different from the first and electrically connecting at least one antenna element not in the second subset to the reference potential.

Other embodiments are directed to methods and systems for providing a conducted power to a two dimensional antenna array to generate a beam with a first radiated peak power at a first location and in response to the beam being directed to a second location adjusting the conducted power such that a second radiated peak power at the second location is substantially the same as the first radiated peak power.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments are directed to a synthesized beam antenna transceiver system that can compensate for beam gain degradation due to undesired coupling with radiation pattern side lobes and or floating antenna elements. The transceiver system may compensate for beam gain degradations by varying the conducted power provided to the antenna elements based on stored or sensed transmit power data and or terminating unused antenna elements to a reference potential.

Reader and tag communicate via waves and . While communicating each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 13.56 MHz and so on.

The communication between reader and tag uses symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol can be a delimiter a calibration symbol and so on. Symbols can be implemented for exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if desired. When the symbols are processed internally by reader and tag they can be treated as values numbers and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or battery assisted tag i.e. having its own power source . When tag is a passive tag it is powered from wave .

Tag is formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes an electrical circuit which is preferably implemented as an integrated circuit IC . In some embodiments IC may be implemented in complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS technology. In other embodiments IC may be implemented in other semiconductor technologies such as bipolar junction transistor BJT technology metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET technology and others as will be well known to those skilled in the art. IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable antenna contacts not shown in .

IC is shown with a single antenna port comprising two antenna contacts electrically coupled to two antenna segments which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of ports contacts antennas and or antenna segments.

In operation the antenna receives a signal and communicates it to IC which both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. If IC uses backscatter modulation then it responds by modulating the antenna s reflectance which generates response wave from wave transmitted by the reader. Coupling and uncoupling the antenna terminals of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can a variety of other means.

In the embodiment of antenna segments are separate from IC . In other embodiments antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC . Tag antennas according to embodiments may be designed in any form and are not limited to dipoles. For example the tag antenna may be a patch a slot a loop a coil a horn a spiral or any other suitable antenna.

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual technical behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits wave which was first described in reference to . At the same time according to block tag receives wave and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no wave to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW which can be thought of as a carrier signal that typically encodes no information. As discussed before this carrier signal serves both to be harvested by tag for its own internal power needs and also as a wave that tag can backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter wave . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter wave and processes it.

An order a timing and other parameters of RFID tag reader communications may be defined by industry and or government protocols also known as standards . For example the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz Gen2 Specification by EPCglobal Inc. is one such industry standard. The contents of the Gen2 Specification version 1.2.0 are hereby incorporated by reference.

Local block is responsible for communicating with the tags. Local block includes a block having an antenna and an antenna driver for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and are capable of switching signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes backscattered signals received from the tags via antenna driver block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF signal that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna driver block .

In typical embodiments demodulator decoder block and modulator encoder block are operable to demodulate and modulate signals according to a protocol such as the Gen2 Specification mentioned above. In embodiments where multiple demodulators and or multiple modulators are present each may be configured to support different protocols or different sets of protocols. A protocol specifies in part how symbols are encoded for communication and may include modulations encodings rates timings or any other parameters associated with data communications.

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Local processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by local processor . In some cases local processor may implement an encryption or authentication function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Local memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation nonvolatile memories NVM read only memories ROM random access memories RAM any combination of one or more of these and so on. These memories can be implemented separately from local processor or in a single chip with local processor with or without other components. Local memory if provided can store programs for local processor to run if needed.

In some embodiments local memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs and other data. Local memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC codes instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna secret keys key pairs and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna driver block . Other components such as local memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are indeed provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a local communication link such as a USB PCI and so on. In turn local block then includes a local network connection for communicating with communications network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.

There can be one or more remote component s . If there are more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via communications network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Remote processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor may also implement an authentication function similar to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Remote memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Remote memory may include a local database and a remote database of a Standards Organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with command tag profiles keys or the like similar to local memory .

Of the above described elements it may be advantageous to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Operational processing block includes the following components if present local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of communications network that links remote network connection with local network connection which may be dynamically changeable. In addition operational processing block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna and cause antenna to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Operational processing block includes local processor and or remote processor . If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that operational processing block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly operational processing block is location independent in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Operational processing block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

RFID reader system operates by operational processing block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by processing operational processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

An RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with other modules or components via an air interface . It is noteworthy that air interface is really only a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen2 Specification also properly characterize that boundary as an interface.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges signals with RF front end module such as I and Q signal pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges data with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module which is also known as a MAC layer module. In one embodiment MAC layer module exchanges data with physical driver module . MAC layer module can make decisions for sharing the wireless communication medium which in this case is the air interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module . This module can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered a separate module but rather as one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system . In some embodiments the one or more processors perform operations associated with retrieving data that may include a tag public key an electronic signature a tag identifier an item identifier and a signing authority public key. In some embodiments the one or more processors verify an electronic signature create a tag challenge and verify a tag response.

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for transmitting RFID signals and in the other direction for receiving RFID signals. In transmitting mode signal initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless RF signals. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless RF signals which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of modules.

As mentioned previously embodiments are directed to a synthesized beam antenna transceiver system that can compensate for beam gain degradation due to undesired coupling with radiation pattern side lobes and or floating antenna elements. Embodiments additionally include programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is usually advantageously implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor but may be implemented in other processing elements such as FPGAs DSPs or other devices as described above.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

Embodiments further include storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions data keys signatures and other data of a program made according to embodiments. A storage medium according to embodiments is a computer readable medium such as a memory and is read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If the storage medium is a memory it can be implemented in a number of ways such as Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM etc. some of which are volatile and some nonvolatile.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet.

Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

More particularly utility may cause a tag to store one or more received instructions in its memory execute the instructions in response to a subsequent command or trigger event and respond differently to a reader command based on results generated by executing the instructions.

Architecture additionally includes an interface converter and an agent . Embodiments also include methods of operation of interface converter . Interface converter enables agent to control utility . Interface converter is so named because it performs a conversion or a change as will be described in more detail below. Agent interface converter and utility can be implemented in any way known in the art. For example each can be implemented in hardware middleware firmware software or any combination thereof. In some embodiments agent is a human.

Between interface converter agent and utility there are respective boundaries and . Boundaries and are properly called interfaces in that they are pure boundaries similar to the above described air interface.

In addition it is a sometimes informal usage to call the space between boundaries and which includes interface converter an interface . Further it is common to designate this space with a double arrow as shown with an understanding that operations take place within the arrow. So although interface is located at a boundary between agent and utility it is not itself a pure boundary. Regardless the usage of interface is so common for interface converter that this document sometimes also refers to it as an interface. It is clear that embodiments of such an interface can be included in this invention if they include an interface converter that converts or alters one type of transmission or data to another as will be seen below.

Agent can be one or more layers in an architecture. For example agent can be something that a programmer programs. In alternative embodiments where agent is a human interface converter can include a screen a keyboard or any other user interface.

Returning to one way interface converter can be implemented is as a software Application Programming Interface API . This API can for example control or provide inputs to an underlying software library.

Communications can be made between agent interface converter and utility . Such communications can be as input or can be converted using appropriate protocols etc. These communications can encode commands data etc. and can include any one or a combination of the following a high down communication HDNT from agent to interface converter a low down communication LDNT from interface converter to utility a low up communication LUPT from utility to interface converter and a high up communication HUPT from interface converter to agent . These communications can be spontaneous or in response to another communication or in response to an input or an interrupt etc.

Commands are more usually included in communications HDNT and LDNT for ultimately controlling utility . Controlling can be in a number of manners. One such manner can be to install utility or just a feature of it. Such installing can be by spawning downloading etc. Other such manners can be to configure enable disable or operate utility or just a feature of it. These commands can be standalone or can carry parameters such as data instructions to be stored by tags etc. In some embodiments interface converter can convert these commands to a format suitable for utility .

Data is more usually included in communications HUPT and LUPT. The data can inform as to success or failure of executing an operation. The data can also include tag data which can be both codes read from tags and data about reading tags such as time stamps date stamps etc. . In some embodiments interface converter can convert the data to a format suitable for agent including in some cases aggregating filtering merging or otherwise altering the format or utility of the data.

It should be noted that what passes across a single pure boundary is unchanged by the mere definition of a pure boundary . But what passes through interface converter can be changed or not. More particularly high down communication HDNT can be encoded similarly to or differently from low down communication LDNT. In addition low up communication LUPT can be encoded similarly to or differently from high up communication HUPT. When encodings are different the difference can be attributed to interface converter which performs a suitable change or conversion of one communication to another. The change or conversion performed by interface converter is for exposing the functionality of utility to agent and vice versa. In some embodiments a command is converted but a parameter is passed along without being converted. What is not converted at one module may be converted at another. Such modules taken together can also form an interface converter according to embodiments.

Agent interface converter and utility can be implemented as part of a reader or as a different device. When implemented as part of a reader suggests a scheme where agent interface converter and utility can be implemented in connection with respective reader modules that are suitable depending on the requirements.

Two components are said to be electrically connected when a low impedance path exists between them and are said to be disconnected if no such low impedance path exists. Of course electrically disconnected components will generally have some unavoidable stray capacitive or inductive coupling between them but the intent of the disconnection is to minimize this stray coupling to a negligible level when compared with an electrically connected path. In some embodiments antenna elements include one or more of patch antennas slot antennas wire antennas horn antennas and helical antennas. While SBA only includes nine antenna elements antenna arrays with any number of antenna elements may be used. Also in some embodiments the antenna ground plane may actually be a surface that is at least partly nonplanar e.g. curved concave convex etc. .

While describes RF beams synthesized by antenna elements arranged in a single line or plane in some embodiments one or more additional antenna elements may be activated to synthesize an RF beam. For example an RF beam may be synthesized by activating antenna elements located along plane as well as antenna elements and or which are not located along plane . Activating these additional antenna elements may allow for additional RF beam shaping for example to narrow the synthesized RF beam.

In some embodiments transceiver system may be an RFID reader system although the synthesized beam gain compensation techniques described herein may be used in non RFID applications. is a block diagram of such an RFID synthesized beam reader system according to one embodiment. Reader system includes a compensating variable power reader and a synthesized beam antenna similar to transceiver and antenna in respectively. Reader includes a controller a transmitter which itself includes a transmit subassembly and a variable gain adjust a receiver a duplexer which allows the reader to both transmit and receive and a memory . Controller which may include one or more processors is configured to cause reader system to synthesize RF beams and to adjust the conducted power output by reader in order to compensate for beam gain variations. In some embodiments controller adjusts the reader output power based on transmit power settings e.g. transmit power data stored in memory .

Transmit power data may include settings for transmitter variable gain adjust receiver and or synthesized beam antenna . In particular transmit power data may indicate the appropriate settings for variable gain adjust and or receiver for particular RF beam orientations in order to achieve a desired beam power. Transmit power data may be pre stored in memory e.g. as a result of testing and calibration at the time of manufacture testing or may be dynamically stored or updated by controller during operation of reader system .

For example when synthesizing an RF beam controller may transmit a beam select signal to synthesized beam antenna to activate or drive the particular antenna elements in antenna used to synthesize the beam. Controller may also retrieve transmit power data that corresponds to the desired RF beam orientation from memory determine a transmit power select signal from the retrieved transmit power data and then adjust variable gain adjust based on the determined transmit power select signal . In some embodiments controller also adjusts receiver based on the retrieved transmit power data . Controller may also adjust one or more of an amplifier gain an amplifier bias a digital to analog converter DAC gain and a DAC input in order to adjust the conducted power.

While reader systems and control reader output power based on information received from different components of the system e.g. receiving data from memory or power sensor in some embodiments a reader system may include both a memory similar to memory and a power sensor similar to power sensor . Transmit power data may be pre stored in the memory for example at the time of manufacture or testing and a controller similar to controllers may use the stored transmit power data to adjust the reader system transmitter receiver initially. The controller may then use sensed transmit power data from the power sensor to further adjust the transmitter receiver and then may update the transmit power data stored in the memory with data received from the power sensor. In some embodiments the reader system may receive power data from an external device or location. For example the reader system may retrieve transmit power data from a remote location such as a server that is remotely accessible by the reader via e.g. one or more networks. In some embodiments the reader system may receive sensed power data from external devices e.g. an RFID tag a different reader an external sensor etc. .

If there is no beam state change then process loops back to step . If there is a beam state change then process moves to step where the transceiver controller determines a new power value for the transceiver e.g. a new transmit power select . The controller may determine the new power value based on stored transmit power settings e.g. transmit power data sensed transmit power e.g. sensor transmit power data or a combination of the two. The controller then adjusts the transceiver conducted power in step then returns to step to monitor for beam state changes.

Other factors may also cause synthesized beam gain degradation. depicts a synthesized beam transceiver system with beam pattern variations due to antenna element coupling. Transceiver system is similar to transceiver system with fixed power transceiver similar to fixed power transceiver and synthesized beam antenna similar to antenna . When transceiver system is commanded to synthesize a particular RF beam with a particular direction e.g. expected beam in general not all of the antenna elements on SBA are activated or driven. Antenna elements that are not activated driven may float i.e. lack a low impedance path to an RF input output or a fixed potential thereby coupling electrically and or magnetically with active antenna elements. This coupling may result in a beam pattern different from the expected beam and potentially having an undesired shape and or degraded peak radiated power.

As discussed above antenna elements that are not driven or activated may couple with a synthesized beam which may result in the beam having an unacceptable pattern or gain. In some embodiments unused i.e. unactivated or not driven antenna elements may be terminated or electrically connected to a reference potential to prevent undesired coupling. For example unused antenna elements may be connected to a particular DC bias chassis ground e.g. an antenna or reader housing or an antenna ground plane such as ground plane in earth ground or any other suitable reference potential to prevent coupling. In some embodiments the reference potential may also be used as a return for the activated driven antenna elements. is a block diagram depicting details of a synthesized beam antenna element termination system according to embodiments. While termination system only depicts two antenna elements and more than two antenna elements in a synthesized beam antenna may be terminated as depicted.

Termination system includes a switch similar to switches and in that electrically connects antenna element or antenna element to the RF input output of the transceiver. Each antenna element is also electrically connected to a reference potential via a low impedance path and a shunt switch forming a low impedance termination. In some embodiments the low impedance terminations are formed as close to the antenna feed points as possible. The shunt switches and may be controlled by a transceiver controller e.g. reader controllers in or a controller in the synthesized beam antenna. When an antenna element is being used to synthesize a beam to transmit or receive a signal i.e. is activated its corresponding shunt switch disconnects it from the reference potential. For example element is being used to synthesize a beam as indicated by the position of switch and its shunt switch disconnects its low impedance path from reference potential . In contrast when an antenna element is not being used to synthesize a beam e.g. element its shunt switch switch connects the low impedance path to reference potential . Thus unused antenna element is shunted i.e. electrically connected to a reference potential via a low impedance path and will not couple to the synthesized RF beam.

Antenna elements may also be terminated without shunt switches by appropriate line impedance design. is a block diagram depicting details of a synthesized beam antenna element termination system without shunt switches according to embodiments. Similar to termination system termination system includes antenna elements and and switch that either connects antenna element or antenna element to the transceiver RF input output . Termination system also includes lines and that connect the terminals of switch to antenna elements and . The lines are designed to have low open circuit impedances such that connected antenna elements are electrically connected to a reference potential when they are disconnected from the transceiver RF input output. For example line is designed to have a low impedance when switch does not connect transceiver RF input output to antenna element .

As described above the impedances of lines and when disconnected from transceiver input output their open circuit impedances can be designed to be low at the transceiver operating frequencies in order to electrically connect antenna elements to a reference potential such as chassis ground earth ground or any other suitable potential. Line impedance is based on line length the dielectric constant of the material the line is fabricated upon and the frequency of the RF signals driving the antenna elements i.e. the transceiver operating frequencies . Therefore when lines and have lengths that satisfy the relation

Subsequently the transceiver system receives instructions in step to synthesize a second RF beam oriented in a second direction different from the first direction. The transceiver system then determines in step if new antenna elements should be activated or deactivated to synthesize the second beam. For example if the second direction lies on the plane associated with the first axis e.g. the direction of beam in then the transceiver system may not need to activate new elements and instead may adjust the phase differences of the waveforms provided to the activated elements. However in some embodiments if off axis elements are activated e.g. to assist in beam shaping then new elements may need to be activated or deactivated even if the second direction is on the plane associated with the first axis. If the system determines that new elements should be activated or deactivated it proceeds to activate and deactivate those elements and to further terminate newly deactivated elements.

In some embodiments steering and termination process may be combined with the synthesized beam gain compensation process described in . For example a synthesized beam transceiver system may both terminate unused inactive antenna elements and adjust conducted power to achieve a desired beam power or shape.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented according to embodiments formed individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example transceivers in this disclosure are interchangeable with RFID readers and vice versa. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . Where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member.

