---

title: Method and apparatus providing a user interface for a request-oriented service architecture
abstract: An approach for providing a request in a request-oriented service architecture is described. A user interface is presented. A verb-noun request based on an input into a user interface causes generation of a transaction based on a feature, declaration information, an action to be performed on the feature, and a current state of the feature. A response is received indicating that the current state of the feature is updated, at least in part, by the transaction. An indication relating to the response is presented by the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868713&OS=08868713&RS=08868713
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08868713
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120308
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. For example product and service features are frequently added to network services and systems to provide consumers with additional value and convenience. When designing a system for instance to deploy a new product or service developers typically create or utilize architectures that focus on actual implementation of the product or service. Likewise devices utilizing such products and services are typically configured to generate requests in a manner dictated by the actual implementation of the product or service. However the development of any new product under this approach generally requires substantial time and effort and involves production systems that service many users at any one time negatively affecting the overall cost quality and time to market for any new product or product feature.

Therefore there is a need for a service architecture that is more flexible and effective in accommodating requests to utilize new services.

An apparatus method and software for providing a request in a request oriented service architecture are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In certain embodiments the communication integration platform may include or have access to a transaction database and a profile database e.g. a virtual enterprise state database . For example the communication integration platform may generate or update a transaction in the transaction database and utilize the transactions to update product service features in the profile database . In addition in various embodiments resource managers or resource managers e.g. event packages may receive for instance a verb noun request e.g. initiated by a user device and provide the transformation of the verb noun request into a request that defines the behaviors and structures of the associated product service features e.g. such as those features that may be provided by a voice station for a particular ROSA instance.

It is noted that the user devices may be any type of mobile or computing terminal including a mobile handset mobile station mobile unit multimedia computer multimedia tablet communicator netbook Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone media receiver personal computer workstation computer set top box STB digital video recorder DVR television automobile appliance etc. It is also contemplated that the user devices may support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchange of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms accelerometer e.g. shaking the user device and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable. It is noted that in certain embodiments the user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies i.e. near field communication NFC Bluetooth infrared etc. Also connectivity may be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

As mentioned products and product features are frequently added to network services and systems to provide consumers with additional value and convenience. New product developments typically involve disparate system integration which generally requires a system to provide means of maintaining a long transaction extending beyond a particular system domain transformations between the disparate systems a common protocol and workflow service system framework and a clear concrete implementation for the actions and their derived actions that define the behavior of the product being developed. Developers designing a system for a new product will create or utilize architectures e.g. service oriented architecture emphasizing that a server includes the concrete implementation of the product to varying degrees and thus the definition of the product s features. In this manner requests are generated in a manner dictated by the concrete implementation of the product to varying degrees . However the development of any new product under this approach generally requires substantial time and effort and involves production systems that service many users at any one time affecting the overall cost quality and time to market for any new product or product feature.

To address this issue the system of introduces the capability to provide a request in a request oriented service architecture. Such a request allows any new product or product feature to be pushed away from the network e.g. server and into the request itself. In one scenario a typical verb noun request may be initiated by a user device for access to a particular product or service feature. The verb noun request may then be received by a resource manager e.g. an event package that provides the transformation of the verb noun request for instance into a canonical form that includes the declarations or definitions for the particular product or service feature. The transformed request may thereafter be transmitted from the resource manager to a communication integration platform which may then merge the contents of the request with the current state of the feature to generate or update a transaction in a long transaction database e.g. the transaction database for updating the current state of the feature e.g. in the profile database . The transaction may for instance specify the feature the action to be performed on the feature the current state of the feature the declaration information and a current status of the transaction. Additionally or alternatively the transaction may specify an intended state of the feature. In particular embodiments the request may include the minimal information necessary to create or update the transaction. On the other hand the transaction may be based on the request the current state of the feature and other requests for instance to provide the explicit action and status. It is noted that in some embodiments the transformed request and its children may for instance be the only means of defining the structure and behavior of a product or service feature. The platform may be deployed within one or more servers and act as a broker or a facilitator of the request rather than define or maintain the new product or product feature. As such the servers may only be required to provide very abstract services for maintaining long transactions providing domain integrations points and defining the request meta model.

In certain embodiments the communication integration platform may decompose the request e.g. a parent request into one or more child requests based on the declaration information. The communication integration platform may further route the one or more child requests to one or more destination resource managers e.g. compensating resource managers based on the declaration information. By way of example the declaration information may include behavior declarations and or structure declarations for product service features. Since the behaviors and the structures for a product service feature are declared in the request they may for instance be utilized by the communication integration platform as a set of instructions for breaking down the request into corresponding child requests and for routing of the child requests to the various resource managers to carry out respective parts of the request. It is noted that in some embodiments the communication integration platform may also act as a compensating resource manager. For example a child request may be destined for the communication integration platform to be further decomposed into one or more grandchild requests based on the declaration information.

In one embodiment the request may include an action to setup a conference using a conferencing feature provided by a conferencing service. Based on the declaration information the request may then be decomposed into several child requests for instances including 1 a child request that includes the necessary behavior and structure declarations for a provisioning feature for routing to a provisioning adapter that will transform the child request into instructions to provision network resources e.g. bandwidth for the conference 2 a child request that includes the necessary behavior and structure declarations for the directory feature for routing to a directory adapter that will transform the child request into instructions to provide contact information of invitees for the conference and 3 a child request that includes the necessary behavior and structure declarations for the conference feature for routing to a conference adapter that will transform the child request into instructions to utilize the provisioned network resources and the contact information to setup the conference.

In various embodiments the communication integration platform may receive one or more child responses in response to the routing of the one or more child requests. The communication integration platform may further generate a parent response based on the declaration information and the one or more child responses for transmission to the originating resource manager. By way of example the provisioning adapter the directory adapter and the conference adapter may respectively transmit child responses with the state completed for instance upon learning that the network resources have been provisioned that the contact information has been provided and that the conference has been setup based on the provisioned network sources and the contact information. As such a parent response will be generated based on the declaration information to inform the originating resource manager e.g. a conference event package that the conference has been setup.

In other embodiments the communication integration platform may transmit the one or more child responses to a long transaction database to trigger an update for the transaction in the long transaction database wherein the current state of the feature is updated in a profile database based on the updated transaction. In one scenario when the child responses are respectively received from the provisioning adapter the directory adapter and the conference adapter with the state completed the communication integration platform may for instance update the associated transaction in the long transaction database. This may in turn cause an update to the current state of the feature or features in the profile database e.g. when the update to the transaction is detected by a virtual enterprise state manager .

Furthermore the communication integration platform the user devices the computing device the resource managers the voice station and other elements of the system may be configured to communicate via the service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as the data network the telephony network and or the wireless network may interact with the service provider network . The networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network. The telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Meanwhile the wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

Although depicted as separate entities the networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that the networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of the system . In this manner the networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

The controller may execute at least one algorithm for executing functions of the resource manager . For example the controller may interact with the provisioning module to determine content to deliver to for example a user device . The provisioning module may then for instance specify a product e.g. user agent plug in application etc. to be provided to the user device . Once the user device is configured the controller may interact with the profile module to determine settings associated with a user of user device such as a schedule calendar and contracts. The controller may then for example interact with the call controller to establish a connection between the user device and another user device using a contact of the user.

The controller may also work with the call controller to facilitate the use of services provided by the resource manager . The call controller may establish a connection between any device provisioned and other devices e.g. a voice station . Such a connection may be modified to for example provide a connection between more than two devices hold or transfer an established connection provide voice messaging services and the like.

As mentioned the controller may further utilize the communication interface to communicate with other components of the communication integration platform the user devices and other components of the system . The communication interface may include multiple means of communication. For example the communication interface may be able to communicate over short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS internet protocol instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network email or other types of communication. By way of example such methods may be used to initiate transmission of child requests to their respective destination resource managers.

In one embodiment a request orient service architecture moves the declaration or definition information e.g. structural declarations behavior declarations etc. associated with a transaction a feature etc. away from concrete system specification e.g. web services UNIX like daemons window services rule engines or work flow systems etc. to the request itself which enables the request to know how to act within its own ROSA system or ROSA domain of systems. In other words the request may include declaration information that can be understood by a single ROSA instance or common trusted ROSA instances groups which share behavioral and structural definitions. However an external or untrusted system may not understand for instance the definitions for the behaviors of another system.

In one scenario an external application may send a traditional verb noun request pattern to instigate a system task. Once received at the ingress a transform to the internal canonical form of that request may occur forming for instance the request . This canonical form may contain both structure and behavior definitions derived from the original verb noun request. Thus from the ingress point the request may be self sufficient. That is the request may have its own life cycle and the ability to traverse its environment in order to accomplish the task for which the request was intended. In some embodiments the request may include the current state of the system and the concept library and or aspect dictionary for the particular ROSA instance. As used herein a concept may refer to a language neutral operation or type e.g. for a particular ROSA instance and an aspect may define the meaning of a structure a behavior etc. As an example an Extensible Markup Language XML library may be utilized as the concept library and the various functions or other constructs created by architects and developers for defining behaviors structures or other elements may make up aspects of the aspect dictionary.

In a further scenario the communication integration platform may receive the request from an originating resource manager e.g. an event package configured to act as a compensating resource manager at the ingress and then merge the request with a current state of the virtual enterprise to create or modify a long transaction e.g. a transaction that extends beyond the system domain but not necessarily long in terms of time that is stored or updated in the long transaction database . As such an update to the relevant portions of the profile database may then be automatically initiated. In certain embodiments the profile database is not updated directly. Instead the profile database is updated by a transaction that is created or modified by requests e.g. requests responses and .

Then the communication integration platform may decompose the requests into child requests e.g. based on the behavior declarations in the request and subsequently route the child requests to their respective destinations e.g. based on the behavior declarations . It is noted that spokes of a hub and spoke architecture may include the destination components which may for instance be compensating resource managers e.g. adapters of product service features . It is also noted that in some cases the destination for the child requests may be within the communication integration platform e.g. if the communication integration platform is acting as the associated compensating resource manager allowing for those child requests to be further decomposed into grandchild requests for routing to their respective destinations.

In response to the routing of child requests the communication integration platform may receive child responses from the destination components. A long transaction coordinator may then trigger an update to the associated transaction in the transaction database which in turn may cause an update to the current state of the virtual enterprise. Based on the behavior declarations of the request e.g. the parent request a response may for instance be generated and sent to the originator of the request e.g. the event package configured to act as a compensating resource manager once all of the child responses are collected and analyzed. In various embodiments the response may for instance relate to the updated state of the virtual enterprise state.

In various embodiments the difference between a request and a transaction is that the request may only include the minimal information necessary to create or update the transaction but the transaction itself would use the current enterprise state and other requests to provide the explicit action and status. Nonetheless the schemas for a request and a transaction may be identical even where their respective contents are different. In some embodiments the schemas for the various requests and responses may also be the same even if for instance their respective actions may be different. As such there may be no need for an explicit request or response type since they may both just be variations of the transaction type.

As mentioned the transaction type may be utilized for a request and a response e.g. parent request child request parent response child response etc. . As shown in this scenario a parent request may be associated with and decomposed into many child requests while a child request may only be derived from or associated with one parent request. In addition as depicted an element of the transaction type may for instance specify up to one instance of the profile type and its instances of the profile feature type . However in some cases the particular instances of the profile type and the profile feature type may be specified by more than one element of the transaction type in the transaction database . As such in certain embodiments the transaction database may allow for multiple instances of a single profile and its features. It is noted that in some embodiments differences between the transaction database schema and the virtual enterprise state database or profile database schema may exist. For example the transaction database schema may hold a transaction element and allow for multiple instances of a single profile and its features. On the other hand the virtual enterprise state database or profile database schema may not include the transaction element and may only allow for up to one instance of any particular profile and its various features. Nonetheless despite potential schema differences the transaction database and the profile database or virtual enterprise state database may for instance work together to provide the history of requested changes the current status of changes occurring at any point in time the current state of the enterprise at any point in time etc.

In step the platform causes in response to the verb noun request generating of a transaction based on the verb noun request and a current state of a feature. The transaction may for instance specify the feature the action to be performed on the feature the current state of the feature the declaration information and a current status of the transaction. In one embodiment the transaction is generated by merging contents of a canonical request e.g. created by a proxy device based on the verb noun request with a current state of the feature. In some embodiments the transaction may be a long transaction stored in the transaction database . Additionally or alternatively the transaction may specify an intended state of the feature. As mentioned in particular embodiments the request may include the minimal information necessary to create or update the transaction. On the other hand the transaction may be based on the request the current state of the feature and one or more other requests for instance to provide the explicit action and status.

Once the transaction is generated platform determines as in step a response indicating the current state of the feature is updated by the transaction. By way of example resource manager processes a transaction to provision bandwidth and platform updates a current state e.g. bandwidth provisioned and sends a response to user device that the bandwidth has been provisioned. As is discussed further with regards to a single verb noun or canonical request may result in multiple child responses. In one embodiment the platform waits until all child responses are received before sending a response to the request. Once the response is received user device displays an indication relating to the response by the user interface. For example a response indicating an availability of bandwidth necessary to establish a requested connection to user device may cause a display indicating that a connection is established to user device

The platform determines a current state of the feature indicated in the canonical request generates a transaction that is the canonical request merged with the current state and sends as in steps and a transaction to resource managers and which process the transactions to cause an update to the current state of the feature. That is a single request e.g. verb noun canonical generates multiple transactions as discussed with respect to . For example resource manager processes a request to provision bandwidth and resource manager processes a request to access a telephony connection to a voice station e.g. voice station . In this manner new products e.g. telephonic services using a data connection may be implemented using disparate systems e.g. resource managers and by use of a verb noun request. Once processed e.g. bandwidth is provisioned and a telephony connection is established responses as in steps and are sent to the platform . In the exemplary embodiment platform waits to update the feature and send a response as in step until responses are received from resource managers and i.e. steps and . In this manner a request e.g. establish a connection with voice station is not indicated as complete in a response until all child responses are received e.g. a bandwidth is provisioned and a connection is established. .

The processes described herein for providing a request oriented service architecture may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. Additional output mechanisms may include haptics audio video etc. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball touch screen or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable a request oriented service architecture. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

According to exemplary embodiments user interface may include one or more displays keypads microphones and or speakers . Display provides a graphical user interface GUI that permits a user of mobile device to view dialed digits call status menu options and other service information. Specifically the display may allow viewing. The GUI may include icons and menus as well as other text and symbols. Keypad includes an alphanumeric keypad and may represent other input controls such as one or more button controls dials joysticks touch panels etc. The user thus can construct templates enter field values initialize applications select options from menu systems and the like. Specifically the keypad may enable the inputting of characters and words. Microphone coverts spoken utterances of a user or other auditory sounds e.g. environmental sounds into electronic audio signals whereas speaker converts audio signals into audible sounds or utterances. A camera may be used as an input device to detect images for example a quick response QR code.

Communications circuitry may include audio processing circuitry controller location module such as a GPS receiver coupled to antenna memory messaging module transceiver coupled to antenna and wireless controller coupled to antenna . Memory may represent a hierarchy of memory which may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Computer program instructions and corresponding data for operation can be stored in non volatile memory such as erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory. Memory may be implemented as one or more discrete devices stacked devices or integrated with controller .

Additionally it is contemplated that mobile device may also include one or more applications and thereby may store via memory data associated with these applications for providing users with browsing functions business functions calendar functions communication functions contact managing functions data editing e.g. database word processing spreadsheets etc. functions financial functions gaming functions imaging functions messaging e.g. electronic mail IM MMS SMS etc. functions multimedia functions service functions storage functions synchronization functions task managing functions querying functions and the like. As such signals received by mobile device from for example platform may be utilized by API s and or controller to facilitate the sharing of information and improving the user experience.

Accordingly controller controls the operation of mobile device such as in response to commands received from API s and or data stored to memory . Control functions may be implemented in a single controller or via multiple controllers. Suitable controllers may include for example both general purpose and special purpose controllers and digital signal processors. Controller may interface with audio processing circuitry which provides basic analog output signals to speaker and receives analog audio inputs from microphone .

Mobile device also includes messaging module that is configured to receive transmit and or process messages e.g. enhanced messaging service EMS messages SMS messages MMS messages instant messaging IM messages electronic mail messages and or any other suitable message received from or transmitted to platform or any other suitable component or facility of system . As such messaging module may be configured to receive transmit and or process information shared by the mobile device . For example platform can send an SMS information relating to a template code word and the like.

It is also noted that mobile device can be equipped with wireless controller to communicate with a wireless headset not shown or other wireless network. The headset can employ any number of standard radio technologies to communicate with wireless controller for example the headset can be BLUETOOTH enabled. It is contemplated that other equivalent short range radio technology and protocols can be utilized. While mobile device has been described in accordance with the depicted embodiment of it is contemplated that mobile device may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

