---

title: Promoting offers through social network influencers
abstract: Mechanisms are provided to facilitate buying and selling products utilizing social pricing. Sellers initiate sale of a product with volume discounts for a limited time. In other words, the more people that buy a product, the lower the price for the group. Buyers have a real incentive to become prosumers that not only purchase a product but also promote purchase by others. A social pricing system brokers interaction between sellers and buyer groups, and provisions mechanisms to aid promotion of products by consumers utilizing social networks and other online activities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620765&OS=08620765&RS=08620765
owner: eWinWin, Inc.
number: 08620765
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120813
---
The present application is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 424 226 filed Mar. 19 2012 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 285 598 which is a continuation and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 788 513 filed May 27 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 140 402 which 

 1 is a continuation in part and claims the priority benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 922 884 filed Aug. 6 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 290 824 which 

 2 which claims the priority benefit of U.S. provisional application 61 183 390 filed Jun. 2 2009 and

Buying and selling of goods and services collectively referred to as products has resulted in a vast array of costing schemes which are used to select the price at which such products are sold. One of the most common costing schemes that consumers encounter everyday is known as fixed pricing. According to this costing scheme sellers set a fixed price for their products based on a past demand for the product and or anticipated future demand. Buyers who desire to purchase products from seller are each required to pay the same fixed price regardless of the number of products purchased. If a seller finds that the demand for a given product is greater or less than expected the seller may later adjust the fixed price of the product to account for such findings. Although fixed pricing provides a simple way for a seller to conduct business with multiple buyers one drawback of this costing scheme is that it fails to reward buyers willing to purchase greater quantities of products. Accordingly the discount quantity pricing scheme evolved.

The discount quantity pricing scheme approach to costing involves pricing a product at different levels depending on the quantity of products a customer is willing to purchase. The more products a customer is willing to purchase the lower the price per product. Sellers have an incentive to lower prices for large quantity buyers since the fixed costs associated with producing the product is spread over more items. Thus sellers are able to make equal or greater profits despite the lowered price of the product. While volume pricing offers a benefit to larger buyers who are able to purchase large quantities of goods at one time smaller buyers are often unable to obtain the lowered prices and therefore are more likely to shop around for the best available deal. This in turn hurts both the buyer and seller. For instance the smaller buyer is burdened with needing to search for alternative deals and still often ends up paying a higher price than larger buyers pay. The sellers on the other hand are faced with lost business since they are unable to reduce their price for the smaller buyers and still make sufficient profit.

Another common costing scheme for pricing a product is an auction. In an auction a seller sets an initial price for an item and then multiple buyers are given an opportunity to bid against one another for the product. The buyer who agrees to pay the highest price for the product purchases the product at the end of the auction at the final price bid. In order to provide a larger forum for buyers and sellers a recent trend has been to auction goods electronically over the Internet. For example one company known to operate an auction site over the Internet is eBay Inc. Although auctions provide advantages when selling unique products for which customers are willing to competitively bid the auction forum is not well suited for sellers desiring to sell large quantities of goods to multiple buyers given the inherent inefficiencies involved with selling one product at a time in a bidding environment.

Yet another costing scheme that has been advanced is buyer driven bidding. According to this costing scheme a single buyer desiring to obtain a product communicates a price at which the buyer is willing to purchase the product to multiple sellers. Each of the sellers is provided an opportunity to review the buyer s price. A sale is complete when one of the sellers agrees to sell the product to the buyer at the price suggested by the buyer or at a price included in a counteroffer. While the buyer driven bidding scheme provides advantages for certain types of transactions when for example sellers may be willing to sell products at lower than normal prices the uncertainties involved with whether a buyer s offer will be accepted is often problematic.

While the costing schemes described above have various advantages and disadvantages in different situations a commonality among all of the costing schemes is that each buyer operates independently with one or more sellers to set a purchase price of a product. For example in the fixed pricing scheme and discount quantity purchasing scheme buyers individually determine whether the sellers preset price schedule is acceptable regardless of whether other buyers have decided to purchase the product or not. In an auction not only do buyers operate independently of other buyers but in fact each buyer s decision to place a bid has a negative effect on all other buyers desiring to purchase the same good since the price of the good increases for all potential buyers. Similarly in a buyer driven bidding scheme each buyer is completely unaware of the amount other buyers are bidding for a given product.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Briefly described the subject disclosure pertains to social pricing and mechanisms in support thereof. In particular systems and methods are provided to broker group buying transactions between buyers and sellers as well to utilizing social networks and other online technologies for promoting purchases by others. Sellers can initiate a sale of a product with volume discounts for a limited time. Buyers have a real incentive to become prosumers who not only purchase a product but also promote purchase by others to obtain a lower price all buyers. Consequently sellers can increase sales profit market share and or brand awareness while buyers realize true costs savings for participating in a deal and can recognize additional cost savings by promoting the service to others or by engaging in other behavior mutually beneficial behavior.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosed subject matter may be employed and the disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinguishing features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed subject matter. It may be evident however that the disclosed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the disclosed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms system component interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. These components also can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry that is operated by software or firmware application s executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. An interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the disclosed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosed subject matter.

As used herein the terms infer or inference generally refer to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Referring now to the drawings with reference initially to product purchase system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the disclosure. As depicted system can include one or more deal room all or a portion of which can be coupled to one or more social network by way of a wide area network such as the Internet or web.

As used herein a deal room can be an electronic forum in which a product is offered for sale. For example deal room can be embodied as a particular web page website banner ad pop up dialog box web based application or the like. Furthermore deal room can include a price curve or price schedule that affords discounts based on aggregate purchases. In other words the price per unit can lower for all participants as quantity purchased increases. The seller of a product and or the creator of deal room can control the specific slope number of tiers break points tipping points or other price schedule characteristics. Furthermore while all products offered in deal room will generally be associated with a price curve that breaks to lower price tiers with increasing aggregate volume or tips upon reaching a particular critical mass deal room in one or more aspect need not display the entire price curve or even be configured with more than one price break tipping point.

In fact research suggests that buyers often disfavor or are confused by price curves especially those with multiple price breaks. Such can be so in spite of the fact that multiple price breaks affords the buyer multiple opportunities to save additional amounts on their purchases. Thus at any given point in time access to deal room can present inter alia a current price time remaining for the offer a current discount received thus far e.g. versus retail and or the starting price and the amount of additional purchases necessary to meet the next break point. In addition the amount of additional savings that can be obtained upon reaching that next break point can also be presented while additional break points can be suppressed from presentation until a prior price break is reached. Moreover the number of deal rooms and particular type e.g. public private can also vary as will be discussed further hereinafter.

Since the final price of a product unit can be dependent upon the total quantity purchased buyers or consumers have a natural incentive to promote purchase of the product. Stated differently consumers can become prosumers those that not only purchase a product but also act in desired ways typically intended to promote inform or evaluate with respect to the deal or product offered in deal room and thus can contribute to what can be referred to herein as social pricing. One manner in which such promotion can be accomplished is via one or more social networks e.g. Facebook MySpace LinkedIn . . . . Prosumers can advertise a particular product to friends family and or coworkers or other contacts e.g. by utilizing social network and can optionally provide a link to a particular deal room to purchase a product.

It should be appreciated that by encouraging prosumers value can be created for all participants. For example all buyers e.g. consumers can benefit from the activities of the prosumer as does the prosumer by virtue of a lower price for the product. To offset this lower price afforded to buyers the seller has increased sales providing an economic benefit due to fixed cost production and has potentially increased market share or brand awareness as well. Moreover the seller can save a significant amount of money up front by reducing an advertising budget all or a portion of which can be redirected to discounts for actual buyers instead which can lead to higher customer loyalty and satisfaction with less risk than traditional methods of advertising or marketing. It should be understood that while the notion of offering incentives and or rewards for marketing one s product exists in conventional systems the above can be distinguished in that all or a portion of the incentives rewards obtained by the prosumer can be allocated to other buyers in addition to the individual prosumer.

It is therefore to be noted that prosumers need not be seen as merely self interested profiteers relying on the purchases of others which is a particularly undesirable viewpoint when those others are friends family or colleagues. In accordance with one embodiment a prosumer can be required to make a purchase or become an active buyer prior to receiving any type of incentive for promoting a purchase to others. In this way the prosumers has put his money where his mouth is which ostensibly he or she would not have done unless the deal is perceived as a bargain. Furthermore sharing bargains with others or advocating products genuinely esteemed is more readily identified with a generous enterprise and certainly the type of behavior friends or family would expect to be made aware of. That such behavior can also be beneficial to the prosumer makes such a symbiotic win win and that much better. In addition such viral advertising from prosumers typically carry much more weight than say spam ads reviews or the like from an unknown party or entity.

On the other hand by leveraging existing social networks it can be presumed a trust relationship of some type already exists between the promotee e.g. a friend of the prosumers and the promoter e.g. the prosumers and further that the promoter may have personal knowledge of the needs tastes desires or interests of the promotee. Moreover if the promotee is aware that the promoter has put his money where his mouth is then any such advertisements from the promoter will typically carry even more weight. For instance the promotee can be further assured that the promoter truly believes the offer exhibited by deal room is both bona fide and a bargain as evidenced by his or her own willingness to purchase. Moreover the prosumer can also receive additional value out of his or her social network by e.g. receiving discounts or other economic benefits with very little additional effort all while keeping in touch with friends family colleagues or other contacts. In addition the prosumer can also share similar benefits with those contacts which can be a source of gratitude or esteem within his or her social circle.

One means of accomplishing the foregoing is to provide a buyer promote page upon the conclusion of a product order. Hence the buyer promote page can be displayed after the buyer has made an order even though the offer may still be live for several more hours or days and the ultimate price paid can be lower than the current price . The buyer promote page can congratulate the buyer for successfully ordering a product that is likely to represent a deep discount over retail even at the current or initial price as well as displaying and updating in real time various data associated with the offer. For example the buyer promote page can indicate e.g. that 15 more buyers have agreed to purchase the product so the final price paid is now an additional 11 lower.

Furthermore the buyer promote page can also entice the buyer to become a prosumer. Any such enticement can be configured according to the seller s desires. For example the buyer promote page can further indicate e.g. that if X more buyers purchase the product then everyone in the buying group will get an additional Y off.

Accordingly to aid the buyer in reaching the next price break and thereby facilitating a transition from mere consumer to prosumer the buyer promote page can include icons representative of and including embedded links to popular potentially third party social network . Some example existing social networks can be e.g. Facebook Twitter MySpace Wordpress or the like as well as an icon to send targeted emails to indicated individuals. Upon clicking one of these links the buyer can be redirected to the selected social network whereupon he or she can login and be given an option to download a social pricing app.

Additional detail with respect to features consistent with a social pricing app can be found with reference to and particularly with respect to elements and . However as a brief introduction the social pricing app can be expressly designed to help promote the product ordered in deal room . Moreover the social pricing app can be programmed for operability with the selected social network . For instance each social pricing app can be designed for substantially the same purpose but will likely differ in implementation due to various proprietary constraints of the many disparate social networks . Furthermore although each social pricing app can be designed to facilitate prosumer activity each social pricing app can operate differently due to various distinguishing platform features many of which can be leveraged in different ways to facilitate promotion of the product offered in deal room .

It should be appreciated that access to various suitable social pricing apps is merely one example of elements that can be included on the buyer promote page. Ultimately the seller can be free to suggest or require any type of prosumer activity that is deemed to have value to the seller any of which can be indicated on the buyer promote page. For example from the seller s perspective many different activities of the prosumer can be valuable e.g. telling friends about the deal writing reviews ranking . . . while from the prosumer s perspective some activities can be more difficult than others to accomplish. Therefore the buyer promote page can include e.g. a drop down list of activities the seller desires the prosumer to engage in. Accordingly the prosumer can select among the list choosing which behavior to pursue and thereby satisfying the desires of the seller as well. Appreciably certain activities can be deemed to have more value to the seller than others. Therefore the buyer promote page can indicate e.g. that if the prosumer engages in at least one activity listed from box A e.g. encourage at least 3 new buyers download and activate a social pricing app to a preferred social network . . . and two activities from box B e.g. email at least 5 friends about the deal write a review of the product or offer give a ranking of the product or offer . . . then the prosumer can be eligible for additional rewards.

As another example it may be that the price has already reached its lowest possible price according to a price curve set by e.g. the seller in which case such can be indicated on the buyer promote page. However that does not mean additional value to the seller cannot be created by prosumers for which the seller can reciprocate in some way. In this case as well as some others various incentives can be offered specifically to the prosumer rather than to the entire buying group however such need not necessarily be the case as these incentives can also be group wide. Regardless it should be appreciated that the rewards need not be confined to a lower price for the product. Rather rewards can relate to discounts on other items or future deals an upgrade to the product or related accessory a free gift redeemable points personal recognition e.g. displaying the prosumer s name or username or possibly a profile photo and with accolades distributed to various interface dashboards banner ads social pricing apps or the like and so forth. It should be appreciated that personal recognition can also be employed in connection with buyers as well as prosumers e.g. when a particular buyer tips the offer or breaks the price to the next tier such recognition can be showered upon that buyer potentially creating a more exciting and or rewarding environment.

Continuing the discussion it should be noted that market studies suggest ratings of the product or the seller or manufacturer from other buyers can operate as the most powerful influence on another buyer s decision to purchase. Due to certain ratings and feedback mechanisms available on many ecommerce platforms an entire generation of buyers has been trained to check star ratings on a vendor read the experiences of others do other research and compare price options prior to ordering. Vendors as well as their products are being vetted by the wisdom of the crowd. Therefore social pricing can improve upon the above by e.g. ensuring such vetting originates from an actual buyer rather than say from an anonymous representative of the vendor which is a common fear of the product researcher . Moreover social pricing can in some cases further bolster the veracity of a review or ranking by virtue of the social relationships that previously exist when utilizing social network platform. For example if a friend or contact on a particular social network writes a review of or gives a high rating for or provides a link to an offer in deal room then the motives of that friend or contact can be known with greater reliability due to the established relationship.

However it should be noted that social pricing does not work for all products equally. For example there are certain known conditions for increasing the likelihood of sustainable success when using social pricing. These are e.g. 1 Standard product with standard options 2 Highly fragmented price sensitive buyers 3 Product that has a repeat purchase cycle an item that is consumed or resold to others 4 Product that can be stored easily so that a buyer could be enticed to purchase more 5 A Favorable Product life cycle can be anywhere in the life cycle but clearly benefits have been dramatic when it is an early life cycle product in search of a expanding customer acceptance and conversely the product late in the life cycle when slower moving items can be liquidated effectively to a fragment set of buyers and 6 A leader within the seller organization who can experiment with what works for their particular situation. Regardless merely because a product does not meet all six criteria does not necessarily mean the product will not be successful in connection with social pricing. Rather the criteria above are meant to illustrate where the low hanging fruit exists for vendors and is not intended to be exclusive of other opportunities in which social pricing makes sense and or can function successfully.

As one example of a potentially successful viral marketing and or social pricing of the type indicated supra if is a prosumer provides a link to a deal on social networking site s for which the prosumer is a member at least a portion of the prosumer s friends are likely become prosumers themselves. Should those new prosumers post information on their own networking sites or pages a large number of people can be notified and potentially grouped quite rapidly. However aggregation need not be confined to friends and friends of friends or members of a particular contact list or the like. Rather purchases by others of no relation or connection who also become aware of the deal in some manner e.g. electronically verbally by way of search . . . can also become prosumers and can have their purchases aggregated to lower the price for everyone. In this manner the power of computer networks can be leveraged to group purchases amongst large numbers of people who may not know each other may not be geographically related or related any other way except for a shared desire to purchase or promote a particular product during a given period. Still further yet such grouping can be performed in real time in accordance with one or more aspect.

It should be appreciated that products ordered via deal room are not necessarily limited only to conventional online order and ship models. For example when purchasing say a book it is common to do so online whereby the vendor charges the buyer and ships the book to an address on file. On the other hand the vendor may operate widespread brick and mortar stores whereby shipping can be an option but the vendor might prefer if the buyer physically visits a local store. In the latter case rather than shipping the book the vendor can authorize a voucher or certificate for the buyer which can be printed or mailed to the buyer. In either case the vendor can capture payment information e.g. credit or debit card information bank account information . . . upon completing an order but process the actual debit of funds after the deal closes and the final price potentially with additional discounts is determined.

Accordingly the exclusively online vendor can have the option to mail the book immediately upon order or wait until funds are actually received. Likewise the brick and mortar vendor can have similar options with respect to the voucher. It should be appreciated that there can be an incentive for the vendor in either case to immediately remit the product e.g. either the book or the voucher because should the buyer obtain the product prior to the close of the offer in deal room the buyer can provide additional feedback that can be desired by the vendor. For example rather than merely ranking or reviewing the offer the buyer can now rank or review the product itself as well as the quality of the transaction with the vendor which expands the options in which a prosumer can contribute to the social pricing ecosystem.

Moreover for certain products especially services such as restaurant dining salon visits or the like vouchers can be much more suitable. In one or more aspects the voucher can be printed at the time of order e.g. with the buyer s attached printer and thereafter redeemed at a vendor s place of business. In other cases the vendor can mail the voucher or certificate which unlike with immediate printing can be implemented as e.g. a gift card with a magnetic stripe on the card. Another approach can be to allow the download of a barcode which can be stored to a mobile device to be redeemed at the store. Appreciably numerous other options can exist.

It should be understood that in certain cases the voucher can include one or more fraud prevention mechanisms. For example the voucher can include a unique coupon code which upon redemption can be scanned or otherwise input to a database to ascertain the identity of the valid recipient. Similarly the voucher or certificate can include the buyer s name and in either case then compared with ID of the redeemer at the point of sale. As yet another example notifications can be delivered to the authorized owner of record of the voucher upon redemption e.g. via email . Thus if the owner of record did not redeem the voucher various resolution procedures can be initiated. Of course numerous other fraud prevention mechanisms can be employed such as holographic marks certificates of authentication COA secret pin numbers and so forth.

On the other hand various mechanisms can be provided to enable transferability to these vouchers even while maintaining a degree of fraud prevention. For example suppose the product offered in deal room is a 50 gift card good at a participating restaurant. Suppose at the time of order the buyer intends the gift card to be used by her parents for their upcoming anniversary. Deal room can provide a mechanism for this information to be entered e.g. a check box or radio button and collect all necessary information at the time of order. As another example if the buyer decides to transfer the voucher at a later time the buyer can be provided with a mechanism to do so e.g. by following a URL on the voucher or included in an email associated with the purchase where the recipient s information can be entered. The above examples are intended to be merely exemplary and in some embodiments such as those that allow completely free transfer or those that include a secret pin number that can be shared with the recipient can be unnecessary in any event.

Regardless of the means for fraud detection or prevention it can be appreciated that these vouchers can represent stored value and can even trade and function as a market until themselves. Accordingly when dealing with such stored value the disclosed subject matter can provide numerous additional features either to facilitate transfer or to mitigate fraud attempts. For example print limits can be implemented for a given voucher such that the recipient can only print the voucher a predetermined number of times or for a predetermined period of time. Another example can be viewless printing where the voucher is not reproduced on a monitor but merely capable of being printed by a suitable device. Still another example can be single use printing wherein the voucher can only be printed once. Additionally or alternatively watermarking can be employed such that watermarks can be printed on the background of the voucher in order to mitigate fraud e.g. thwart photocopying or similar reproduction means . It should be understood that mechanisms can be distributed to provide any of the above mentioned functionality to a buyer s personal computer. In other cases a link to the voucher can be delivered to an email address of the buyer whereupon clicking the link directs a browser to a particular URL that can facilitate any of the above features and can track and regulate the printing without any control of personal devices of the buyer.

In other aspects group offers can be tied to a particular IP address or to the location of a device for example determined by way of global positioning satellites GPS or other means. In particular approximate location can be determined by signal triangulation or trilateration . For example signal strength measures at various stationary transceivers can be measured by well known means in order to pinpoint the location of the transmitting device. One such example is Wireless Application Protocol W AP wherein radio location triangulation and or trilateration can be employed in connection with radio waves or other electromagnetic radiation. Another example can be radio frequency identification RFID . Regardless group offers can be based upon the exact or approximate location of the recipient e.g. within 20 miles of the vendor s place of business . Should the offer be received by one beyond the predetermined boundaries then an opt in email page can be provided upon a click through rather than the offer.

In other words location of one or more buyer or one or more seller can be monitored or tracked potentially in real time and typically based upon express permission and or based on an opt in program expressly consented to. Thus for example consumers can search based upon location and vendors can as noted above broadcast ads or incentives to consumers within a particular radius of the vendor s place of business. In either case results can be presented automatically on a cell phone or other mobile device via email etc.

Moreover such location information can be integrated with or further leveraged in connection with other features disclosed herein. For instance general or custom ad space can be provided to an interface such as a banner ad or small pop up or dialog box presented at an allocated portion of the interface on the mobile device or other interface component. The ad can change or be selected based upon location category preferences profile friends contacts location or logistics of friends contacts. Additionally or alternatively the ad can present special group or individual deals directly to particular consumers based upon the selected criteria. Furthermore various maps or graphs or charts can be presented relating to information about those in a particular buying group e.g. purchased a common product etc. or in a related group or based upon some other relationship. For example a map of a geographic region of interest to a buyer or a seller can be presented. The map can include visual indicia relating to the location or identity of who e.g. purchased rated ranked provided feedback influenced others responded to the influence of another shared feedback and so forth. Hence sellers can be apprised of the proximity of potential buyers or mavens in proximity of his or her place of business while potential buyers can use these features to locate friends or contact or anyone who grants access . Moreover various information relating to particular points of interest included in the map can presented within the map. For instance if a particular restaurant is selected or is in the visible map region a ranking rating or recommendation e.g. pulled from a social network given by a member of one s contact list can be displayed or accessed. Likewise local deals e.g. pulled from or pushed by deal room can be presented as well. It should be appreciated that each classification e.g. selected from among various map controls listed above on the map or chart as well as others can potentially be distinguished with unique visual indicial such as color coding or the like and such can be presented to buyers or sellers alike. As another example ad space included in the banner ad or other ad real estate can be bid upon by sellers. For instance a seller can bid on certain product classes keywords groups or group deals as well as location or combinations thereof.

Furthermore a rifle shoot deal can be directed to a primary contact e.g. a maven or influential individual potentially based upon past activity or an inference thereof such as similarity to known mavens . Typically this maven will have a large network of contacts that can be influenced which can be even more beneficial if it is known the maven or members of the maven s social network is in close proximity to the vendor s place of business. As another example the rifle shoot can be targeted to or be activated by a location of the target e.g. deal goes live when it is detected an individual is local .

In one or more aspects searches of one individual or potential buyer e.g. a maven can be saved or copied and delivered to others such as contacts of the maven. Such a feature can also be dependent upon an opt in program or can be utilized to help disparate buyers formulate more effective searches. Moreover common searches can provided as a set of defaults which can be selected from among various databases and or indexed in specific ways such as e.g. see all local deals see all bargains that I might be interested in that are being offered right now in my present area view what my friends have bought provided feedback recently at this location or other permutations.

In view of the above features described with respect to location data consider the following example. Suppose a restaurant owner e.g. seller displays a map of her restaurant which indicates that 100 potentially random people are currently within 500 feet of her restaurant. Ads or other enticements or requests can be delivered immediately to all or a portion of those 100 people. Moreover the time of day can be logged e.g. meal time which can be compared to other data points at other times to e.g. determine the highest volume time of day date of week or the like. Regardless the restaurant owner can configure a deal to be broadcast at a specific time and repeat at specific intervals e.g. daily weekly . . . . Ratings of those who gave feedback can be tracked and shared with friends or in the aggregate with all. Moreover distinctions between different ads and their resultant effects e.g. increased decreased clicks or conversions feedback etc. can be stored for future analysis.

Leaving now examples specifically directed to location based criteria in one or more aspects a notion of game theory can be applied to the demand aggregation mechanisms utilized in deal room specifically when conditional orders orders in which the buyer is not obligated to purchase unless the deal reaches a certain price are employed. In particular the concept of a buyer voluntarily giving a portion of her discount due to a tipping point price break to other buyers if they will agree to order. For instance consider an item currently priced at 10 with a price curve that indicates the price will drop to 8 per unit if at least 200 units are order and drop again to 7 per unit if 500 units are ordered. Assume in this case that 100 units have been ordered at the starting price of 10 and another 50 have been conditionally ordered if the price reaches 8 and still another 50 units have been conditionally ordered if the price reaches the minimum illustrated on the price curve of 7.

It is readily apparent that if 100 units were conditionally ordered at 8 dollars then the server could immediately note this and fill all 200 units at the middle price point of 8. Specifically both the first 100 units ordered at 10 as well as the second set of 100 ordered at 8 can all be filled at 8 since the seller s first break point was reached. However in this case there are only 150 units ordered in which the buyer is willing to pay 8 or more e.g. 100 ordered at 10 and 50 conditionally ordered at 8 which does not satisfy the seller s minimum to lower the price to 8. However in this situation there are also 50 conditional buyers at 7 per unit that remain to be considered. If each of these 50 conditional buyers at 7 per unit could be allocated an extra dollar then the total number of units ordered would reach 200 thereby obligating the seller to drop the price from 10 to 8.

Naturally this 1 subsidy is not especially likely to be allocated by the seller or the buyers at 7 or 8 per unit however for those 100 already willing the buy the product at 10 even if desiring an eventual lower price there is an incentive. In this case and assuming 1 buyer per unit of the 100 buyers willing to pay 10 per unit can offer a portion of their volume based discount which would be a discount of 2 if the volume reaches 200 to entice further buying. In particular those 50 buyers at 10 can each give 1 to the 50 buyers at 7 or all 100 can give 0.50 to each buyer at 7 . As a result the 50 buyers at 7 can be treated as though their order is at 8 per unit thereby satisfying the first break point of 200 units ordered necessary to drop the price from 10 to 8. As a further result all or a portion of the buyers willing to pay 10 will not get the lowest price at the conclusion of the offer. However those buyers will still receive the product at a price lower than they would have if they had not voluntarily agreed to reduce their eventual discount e.g. 9 per unit as opposed to 10 even though others will receive a price of 8 per unit and still others only at 7 . Such can be accomplished by e.g. a check box or radio button on an order form indicating something to the effect of Are you willing to apply some portion of further discounts to entice additional buyers which will not operate to raise you final price just lower it albeit not as low as what some others might receive. 

In the above example if more than 50 buyers at 10 check this box then the 50 ultimately selected can be based upon a first in first out FIFO queuing method based upon customer preference server preference or some other criteria. Likewise if more than 50 buyers exist at 7 then the 50 who receive the 1 windfall can be based upon first come first served basis or some other criteria. Moreover the features described above can be configured to activate only at the expiration of the offer. Thus if more orders are received at either 10 or 8 fewer enticements from 10 buyers need be distributed to those willing to buy at 7 in order to meet the volume requirement of 200 units.

Turning now to depicted is a social pricing system that can be employed in accordance with an aspect of the disclosed subject matter. System can include a plurality of components to facilitate inter alia social pricing and or to mediate interaction between sellers and buyers typically in connection with and or operatively coupled to deal room of . In particular system can include seller interface component and buyer interface component . These interfaces can provide suitable mechanisms to facilitate registration for sellers and buyers respectively. For example a plurality of mechanisms can be utilized to collect information about from sellers or buyers e.g. name address billing information . . . .

In one embodiment one or more wizards can be provided to assist buyers or sellers with the input or collection of such information. In one particular instance seller interface can include one or more mechanisms to help the seller offer products for sale. For example the interface can aid specification of a sales unit e.g. piece box barrel . . . minimum maximum orders product options deliver choices offer length e.g. hours days . . . discount offers e.g. coupon discount codes commissions public private offers price schedule buy it now price marker placement start at a particular price tier first buyer discounts and or rules or preference to facilitate automatic store front generation among other things. Further yet seller interface can similarly be employed to later adjust the terms of the offer if so desired.

It is also to be noted that the interface components and can provide customizable dashboards for buyers or sellers which among other things can present valuable information thereto in an intuitive manner. For example and not limitation a buyer dashboard can include historical information about purchases automated purchase criteria and active offers of interest. In one or more aspects the buyer dashboard can be formatted as e.g. a banner ad or popup or widget. Accordingly the buyer dashboard need only occupy a small amount of screen real estate but can still deliver potentially in a configurable manner all the relevant information of the offer. For example current discount link to place an order use a card or coupon code share with others get a final price download the stored value of the transaction potentially along with additional details and so on. Appreciably this banner ad or other mechanism can be embedded into a social network in a manner similar to social pricing apps. Hence potential buyers who are e.g. still on the fence about whether or not to commit to a purchase can monitor the action and excitement of the offer by visiting page of a prosumer and likely friend who has embedded the banner ad.

Similarly a seller dashboard can include information about visitors e.g. top visitor locations prosumers orders current inventory production capacity production schedule and or other key performance indicators. In one instance a number of graphical elements can be utilized to render such valuable information including various graphs and charts among other things. These and other mechanisms can also be employed to filter or sort a variety of information in various manners to allow users to acquire significant information from such mechanisms. Appreciable with the potential wealth of information available the host can be afforded a powerful opportunity to present advertising opportunities to both buyers and sellers. For example the host can offer targeted advertising or ads to either buyers or sellers based on history statistics search location and so forth. For instance sellers can be informed automatically primed on potential deals based upon a number of prospective buyers in certain locations while buyers can be proactively served deals based upon their own geographic location. Moreover by utilizing product interest data or inferences to drive ads more effective display or ad selection can be effectuated.

For example in one or more aspects a seller dashboard or seller social pricing app can be provided to support various information and levels of detail about prosumers with respect to products offered by the seller. For instance a means for contacting the prosumer can be provided e.g. to indicate appreciation provide special recognition or other information as well as a means of providing the prosumers with other additional incentives such as coupon codes. Another purpose of this feature included on the seller dashboard can be to give sellers the ability to filter or sort those prosumers who have generated the most views the most orders the most prosumers and to visually indicate how each prosumer is connected to others.

For example any number or variety of representations can be employed such as tables charts graphs trees maps and so forth. Any suitable representation can thus display metrics indicative of how well offers are performing. In particular such metrics can relate to e.g. a total number of orders total revenue for the day total number of views which offers have closed which offers are still live a total number of prosumers various click through rates bounce rates and the like. These and other additional metrics that can be displayed in some manner by the seller dashboard are summarized below in various tables which are not intended to represent a comprehensive list as other metrics can be suitable as well. Moreover certain displayed metrics can relate to multiple or individual products as well as for multiple or individual buyers and can typically be further filtered by date.

For example upon selecting a particular offer from the seller dashboard the seller can be presented with various reports regarding seller and buyer social pricing apps. These reports for the seller social pricing app can appear if the seller shared the seller social pricing app. The reports for the buyer social pricing app can appear if at least one of the seller s buyers shared the buyer social pricing app. The seller can be able to access reports on offers that are currently live as well as those that have closed. These reports include but are not limited to the following 

Table 1 below relates to offers that are live wherein an associated seller social pricing app will typically display graphical representations the following to the seller 

Likewise Table 11 below relates to offers that have closed and therefore generally removed from the seller social pricing app 

It should be appreciated that buyer social pricing app can display similar items as those noted above with respect to seller social pricing apps.

Furthermore still referring to a seller dashboard in connection with seller interface component various other metrics can be provided to sellers. For example the seller dashboard can indicate the seller s top 5 most active prosumers which can be defined however the seller chooses such as the top 5 quantity buyers the top 5 in total activity the top 5 who lead to the most sales or orders and so forth in connection with their active offers. A prosumer can be considered active when the offers those prosumers have included in their social pricing applications have not yet expired. The seller dashboard can provide a drop down menu that will allow selection dates for the information in that is to be ultimately displayed. Moreover the seller dashboard can also provide the ability to sort this table as well as provide the ability to select all or individual prosumers. A Reward button located on the seller dashboard can then allow the seller to send an email or coupon to all selected prosumers. Appreciably displaying information relating to prosumers need not be with respect to active or current or recent offers but can also relate to say the seller s top 5 prosumers of all time or with respect to certain product categories and so forth.

Hence the seller dashboard can display items such as e.g. a username of prosumers activity to date for offers submitted by the seller a total amount each prosumer has personally spent on the seller s products a total amount spent on the seller s products that were initiated by activities of the prosumer or any of the above with respect to a particular category or class of product as well as a reward link to allow transmission of a message or coupon code or the like. In addition the seller dashboard can also provide an option of adding prosumers to a future watch list which can be employed to track various prosumers typically to later engage or reward them.

Although not necessarily limited to a particular form often such rewards will take the form of coupon codes. Moreover coupon codes can apply to all or some subset buyers or merely to selected buyers or selected prosumers. Coupon codes can operate to reduce the final price after the offer closes by a predetermined percentage by a predetermined notational value e.g. dollar amount or operated to provide other economic advantages such as free shipping extended warranty and so forth. In some cases an alert can be delivered to the seller illustrating the effects the coupon code will likely have on the initial price curve.

In one or more aspect the seller dashboard can allow the seller to limit the number of uses or iterations of a particular coupon code which can further encourage immediate buying. It should be appreciated that a coupon code can be applied to substantially any offer that is live as well as substantially any offer that is scheduled for an upcoming date. System can also include deal room constructor component which can utilize information specified by the seller to generate and subsequently activate a deal room e.g. deal room of . Turning briefly to example screenshot of an exemplary deal room that can be generated by component is illustrated. Here a product name is displayed in the upper left corner with a picture of the product situated below. A description of the product which can include any combination of text audio and or video is also provided in toward the bottom left corner.

A price schedule is graphically depicted close to the middle of the page. Here two price tiers are shown one for purchase of 10 20 product units and another for purchase of over 21 product units. Although depicted here as a three dimensional graph it should be noted that the price schedule can take any number of different forms including amongst others a price curve and a table. Further additional information can be provided such as the amount or percentage saved at each tier for example as shown in . In addition in an arrow or some other visual indicia can indicate that current pricing for the product is the first tier.

Further graphical element is provided to allow specification of particular product options. For example where a picture is for sale various sizes and or frames can be made available as options. The price with options can be displayed therein. Beneath element at the time remaining and ship date can be specified. Button can also be provided e.g. as depicted next to the price schedule to initiate purchase of a product. Further still various icons links can be provided to initiate e.g. help send email and return to a home page . Of course screenshot is only exemplary. It is to be appreciated that many different combinations of interface elements and functionality can be provided within the scope and spirit of the described subject matter.

Returning to recommender component can provide among other things product recommendations to buyers as a function of e.g. a particular product of interest. For example a product recommendation can be made by component based on a product category associated with a currently viewed and or purchased product. In this way additional sales including cross selling opportunities can be encouraged. Furthermore the recommender component can provide a mechanism to receive user feedback and or product ratings to aid a purchase decision. Optionally reputation management functionality can be incorporated or otherwise employed with respect to users to further facilitate a purchase decision.

The recommender component can provide recommendation to sellers as well. For example smart recommendations can be provided on pricing and or durations of offers among other things. Although not limited thereto in one embodiment such recommendations can be inferred and or otherwise determined utilizing various analytics based at least on historical market data and optionally on contextual data information. Further recommender component can operate in connection with deal room constructor component to e.g. facilitate automated construction thereof as a function of one or more recommendations.

System can also include analysis component which can analyze all or a portion of potential buyers and or product markets among other things to assist a seller in offering a product for sale. Moreover analysis component can receive retrieve or compute various metrics. For instance analysis component can facilitate identification collection or storage of the following metrics for sellers total number of orders total revenue for the day total number of views which offers have closed which offers are still live total number of prosumers percentage of people who became prosumers which prosumers brought in the most revenue which consumers had the most impressions click through rate CTR or bounce rate.

Further the analysis component can facilitate provisioning of a default pricing option for automated pricing or recommendation based on the current market recent market or forecasted market for a particular product. Additionally or alternatively sensitivity analysis can be performed and potentially return computed based inferences on a proposed offer. Still further yet it should be noted that various simple or advanced analytics can be performed by analysis component . For example trend analysis can be utilized to determine how particular social networks and or prosumers are performing with respect to promotion and purchase of one or more seller products.

To provide a concrete example of the functionality of analysis component consider following. Analysis component examines and or parses comments made about an offer from different groups of buyers possibly based upon demographics or other known characteristics. Based upon such analysis component can infer how a target demographic might respond to a similar or disparate offer . Hence analysis component can substantially infer various probabilities of success for any given offer set forth by a seller. Additionally or alternatively analysis component comments e.g. positive or negative on the offer product particular words used responses thereto with respect to a particular offer or product. Based upon such examination the influence exerted by particular individuals who made comments can be tracked or measured.

Naturally certain individuals e.g. mavens can be found who exert substantially more influence over others than the average case. Thus how a maven reacts to a particular offer or similar previous offers can be employed to infer how well the particular offer will do. Therefore upon constructing an offer the seller can be informed of this information prior to posting the offer to a deal room and therefore be able to employ the delivered information to intelligently modify the offer. For example in one or more aspects the seller can plug in a product database and or business model. In response analysis component can examine all available relevant data to output e.g. if you offer a certificate voucher of 20 face value for 10 have the offer expire in 3 days then the odds of you getting 750 people to purchase 20 of whom are new fans is 56 . If the offer is lowered from 10 to 9 analysis component can indicate e.g. that the probability rises to 82 and so forth. Moreover analysis component can be employed to automatically optimize offers for a given criterion such as e.g. profitability brand awareness or another focus determined by the seller.

In one or more aspects analysis component can model a suitable profile for mavens with respect to the seller s product domain. Such modeling can relate to e.g. types of words used types of common activities frequency of activity number of contacts tools or settings used for a deal room or an associated social network character of replies to the maven or the like. Based upon this model analysis component can identify other potential mavens e.g. those in the seller s geographic region. Hence the seller can be apprised of a potentially very customer base provided by the inferences of analysis component .

It should be appreciated that inferences can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inferences can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data.

Such inferences can result in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier can be a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hyper surface in the space of possible inputs where the hyper surface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. naive Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

Automated order component can automatically facilitate purchases of products and or place orders for products as a function of buyer specified criteria. For example a particular buyer can specify utilizing buyer interface component for instance particular product quantities price points or delivery dates. In one instance such information can be provided with respect to a subscription. The automated order component can also monitor offers for products and if an offer matches buyer specified criteria an order can be automatically executed and shipped.

Search component which can provide search functionality over a plurality of products offered for sale with respect to the social pricing system . Accordingly buyers can employ the search functionality via interface component for example to locate products of interest. As well sellers can search products to identify competing offers hot products among other things.

Data collection component can collect a plurality of data surrounding the sale of a product. For example product sales can be tracked by seller product category or the like and demographic information recorded about particular buyers e.g. gender age ethnicity marital status religion education income . . . and other contextual information e.g. date time day of week season weather events . . . . Such data can subsequently or concurrently be employed by other components to improve shopping experience. In one instance such information can be utilized to populate key performance indicators KPIs specified on a seller dashboard or interface and or afforded to analysis component for processing. As one example demographic and other information relating to buyers or potential buyers can be obtained from social networking platforms such as social network of .

Import Export component can provide a mechanism to aid importing or exporting information with respect to the social pricing system . By way of example and not limitation data can be exported to web services RSS XML feeds particular applications e.g. spreadsheet inventory management system or the like. Similarly data can be imported from particular applications of sources e.g. inventory management system product catalog . . . . Consider a company with many products for example. Rather than inputting each product individually import export component can enable an entire product catalog to be imported. Furthermore import export component can operate in combination with other components to e.g. aid automated deal room construction. In accordance with one aspect a business can be easily import numerous products and a virtual storefront including a specific uniform resource locator URL and product offers can be generated automatically or semi automatically e.g. inferences rules manual input . . . .

In more detail import export component can in one or more aspects provide an ability to extract product database information from a client or vendor site or other data repository and import such data into a new database resident on a hosted server. Additionally import export component can allow various defaults to be set. For instance component can pull volume price schedules for any item such as 1 3 units 20 4 6 units 19 and so on. Such can be accomplished by product and can even distinguish based upon various classes or categories. Hence import export component can pull a price list for distributors and a different price list for resellers and so on. Regardless the pulled data can automatically feed a storefront with product description image price curve or table offer period ship date etc. Moreover such can be performed rapidly in an automated manner and can even be allocated a unique URL associated with the managing entities with items displayed according to the storefront selected. Furthermore import export component can provide the ability to take the base volume prices for all items and add a predetermined possibly product category specific markup to all or a subset of items before feeding into the selected price curves for instance by adding 5 to all products at all price curves.

Similarly import export component can facilitate an application of certain incentives e.g. coupons discounts . . . to specific items categories of items subcategories of items or the like all or a portion of which can be on top of or in lieu of the determined price curves. Such features can imbed additional flexibility into the host platform by e.g. enabling the seller to further customize the storefront or multiple storefronts accordingly. Moreover import export component can feed sort and or display imported data by substantially any pivot such as e.g. product category type UPC number and so forth. Moreover specific offers or a group for a sub criteria can be subject to further analysis to feed business intelligence recommender systems smart pricing or the like.

The above mentioned storefront can be equipped with a Shopping cart function e.g. via cookies or related mechanisms and tagged per user so that future visits can automatically pull earlier products and prices coupons etc. and can be utilized to incorporate a new distinct storefront with select items based on business intelligence and or recommendation algorithms. Again the items displayed availability price curves coupons can all change in unison based on the unique buyer on the site as can what is ultimately delivered as part of that shopping experience.

For example if a buyer orders from the storefront and then proceeds to become a prosumer by e.g. placing a social app on his her social networking page the seller can be notified of this event and can respond with unique offers directly to that person and or to their social network. As more buyers click through this link the group s activities can be recorded as well as an identity or profile of the various individuals. This information can be further refined over subsequent visits to support proper profiling which can then be used to generate smart storefronts pricing incentives and recommendation systems to increase the value of the service for both buyer and seller.

Data store s provide a mechanism to persist and retrieve data. For example the data store s can electronically house all product offers and make them available for retrieval utilizing the search component . Further all or a portion of information collected by data collection component can be housed by data store s . As well component can utilize the data store s to import and or export data. In other words data store is intended to be a repository of all or portions of data data sets or information described herein or otherwise suitable for use with the described subject matter. Data store can be centralized either remotely or locally cached or distributed potentially across multiple devices and or schemas. Furthermore data store can be embodied as substantially any type of memory including but not limited to volatile or nonvolatile sequential access structured access or random access and so on.

Access component can control access to the social pricing system or particular portions thereof. In other words access component can act as a authorization mechanism. In this manner offers can be limited to registered users of social pricing system or in accordance with terms or conditions set by an entity e.g. buyer or seller who constructs a particular deal room. Further some offers can made public such that any member of the public can view the offer while other offers can be private and potentially inaccessible to any but approved users for example. In one instance terms and conditions can be specified satisfaction thereof allowing entrance into a private deal room. For example a prosumer may be provided access to a private deal room with a more advantageous price schedule for a product after generating a set number of other prosumers.

Port component can operate as a mechanism that allows at least a portion of the functionality provided by the social pricing system to be ported to particular devices applications environments or the like. In this manner social pricing can be integrated with most any other context or suitable platform.

Turning attention to a representative port component is illustrated in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. In one instance a portable chunk of code can be produced and provided for execution within a particular application e.g. web browser and or environment e.g. social network . In particular components and provide widgets and applets for download and or use. In one embodiment such widgets and or applets can provide promotional functionality as well as real time updates in connection with deal room activity. For example an applet can be dropped on a social networking page which identifies a particular product being offered for sale with social pricing and can further provide a link thereto to effect a purchase. Moreover the widget applet can present updated information such as current pricing rice breaks quantity sold discounts to date and those that can be obtained probability of reaching price breaks time remaining for the offer to name but a few examples. Additionally or alternatively discount codes or a link can be provided to encourage a purchase as well as configurable product search or watchlists.

Further yet mobile interface component can be downloaded and or otherwise employed by a mobile device e.g. phone tablet terminal . . . to facilitate interaction with the social pricing system. For example a mobile interface or dashboard can be provided that is specifically constructed e.g. in terms of form factor processing bandwidth . . . for use on a mobile phone or other mobile device. Additionally or alternatively such functionality can be embodied as a mobile device application.

Stated differently the widgets applets or other small applications can act as a dynamic billboard where various information can be provided. Furthermore the widget or the like can update information in real time. For example the most current unit price can be updated as it changes in accordance with a schedule and current volume purchased. Additionally remaining time can be updated such as the number of days or minutes left before expiration of an offer. Sellers can also offer discounts in real time to encourage purchases. By way of example special coupons and or codes associated therewith can be provided for use on orders placed in the next five minutes e.g. flash offers . Still further yet the widget can provide the ability to provide feedback to sellers in real time. For instance product description errors can be noted questions asked regarding a product suggestions made pertaining to a current or future price curve and or various other suitable elements. Furthermore search functionality can be provisioned to enable identification of one or more similar or dissimilar group purchase opportunities.

Regardless the product quantities ordered through all or a subset of each public deal room and all or a subset of each private deal room can be combined by aggregation component which can also be included in social pricing system . Hence the final price per unit for the offered product can be based on the total quantity ordered with respect to both public and private deal rooms in accordance with a price schedule associated with each room. Appreciably all other things being equal buyers from public deal room can end up paying a different price per unit than do buyers employing private deal room even though both utilize the same aggregate volume of total units ordered since the price curves for each can differ .

To facilitate clarity and understanding the following non limiting example is presented. An individual can identify or otherwise become of aware of a product offered for sale by a seller offering a volume discount. For example he she can become aware after searching for a product or be informed by a friend or family member via written or verbal communication and or by way of a widget or applet on a networking site. The individual can then purchase a quantity of the product for at most the current price according to a price schedule. At this point the individual becomes a consumer and can be obligated to buy the product at the initial price agreed upon but with additional orders from others may well end up paying a final price that is lower than the initial price in accordance with a given price curve .

Thus to obtain a lower price the consumer can promote purchase of the same product to colleagues friends family or others. For example the consumer can acquire a widget applet or other application and place it on one or more of his her social networking pages or other websites. The widget can be network agnostic and can provide a means for directing others to a location e.g. deal room where the product can be further examined and or purchased. By promoting the purchase of the product the consumer becomes what is deemed a prosumer. While a prosumer can be motivated by self interest to obtain the lowest price possible on the product the prosumer can also be subject to altruistic motives as well such as to inform friends family or other contacts of the best deal. Regardless the prosumers can be provided additional motivation beyond those listed above to continue to promote purchase of products which can be initiated by sellers or other interested parties by way of offering e.g. additional discounts entry into private deal rooms points gift cards and or other incentives. At the expiration of an offer consumers can be charged the lowest unit price reached by aggregating all consumer purchases. Some consumers may obtain additional price breaks as a function of one or more discounts acquired by that consumer for example as a function of prosumer activity.

Further it should be noted that social network providers themselves or even prosumers prosumer groups or organization etc. can offer discounts host a sale and or provision widgets or the like to members so it should be appreciated that incentives are not merely limited to sellers. This can be done to increase traffic and or social network membership for a particular provider. Further sellers can enter into agreements with one or more particular network providers. These agreements can be structured to afford additional discounts or other incentives to members of the network provider for its role in promoting purchase of a product which can then be passed on to social network members. Additionally buyers or prosumers can be incentivized to promote a purchase on a particular social network by offering a discount for example.

Further yet the disclosed social pricing system can be employed in conjunction with various resellers alone or in combination with other prosumers. For example affiliate networks or the like can be provided with a commission as a function of sales completed through or with the aid of the network click through rates or other metrics.

Reward based incentive programs can be implemented by social network providers affiliate network providers among others in which individuals earn points or the like which can be utilized to purchase items earn discounts or acquire privileges among other things. In this manner a further incentive can be provided to increase traffic of deal rooms and social network platforms and buyers of products.

Still further yet it should be appreciated that a broker and or other third party to a transaction can verify or certify proper operation. In other words a transaction can be analyzed to ensure that a seller is providing buyers with a group discount in accordance with a provided price schedule among other things. Such a certification verification seal of approval can be provided to particular sellers and or deal rooms to assure consumers that they will receive a deal as promised.

The aforementioned systems architectures and the like have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or subcomponents specified therein some of the specified components or subcomponents and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component to provide aggregate functionality. Communication between systems components and or sub components can be accomplished in accordance with either a push and or pull model. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below can include or consist of artificial intelligence machine learning or knowledge or rule based components subcomponents processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Referring to a method of selling a product is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the claimed subject matter. At reference numeral an offer is afforded with social pricing. At one or more mechanisms are provided to facilitate promotion or an increase in quantity purchased. For example such a mechanism can include an applet or widget for inclusion on a social network. At numeral purchases are collected from buyers. Purchase information is provided to a seller at reference and buyers are notified of a final unit price based on the total quantity purchased at . Discounts provided to buyers for various reasons can also be taken at this time.

It is also to be noted that the social pricing system can interface interact with inventory management productions scheduling and or other seller systems. As a result sellers can construct profitable offers and increase efficiency. By way of example and not limitation it if it can be determined that there is a open period between manufacturing runs a seller an post an offer for products that can be produced during this time. Further a minimum quantity can be specified to ensure profitability. If the minimum is met production is run. Otherwise it is not. Furthermore a first buyer can be offered a discount or other benefit to get things going and or a buyer who purchases the minimum quantity can be incentivized. Overall the seller is able to leverage the social pricing system to make money when he would otherwise simply experience some downtime thereby increasing overall profitability and efficiency.

Discussion has focused primarily on utilizing social networks to provide others an ability to purchase a product such that a group can obtain a volume discount. In particular widgets applets or the like can be utilized to provide such functionality. However other mechanism can also be utilized. For example the some mechanisms can be utilized with respect to a blog or personal website. Further different mechanism can be employed depending upon a communication medium. For instance if widgets are not supported or desired then links can be utilized to a deal room. Further short messages can be utilized to promote purchases such as tweets text messages or the like. In other words any means can be employed to get the word out virally or otherwise to a particular group.

The term social pricing or the like as used herein refers to group purchases in which a volume discount or cost savings is provided. Social pricing also encompasses demand aggregation as specified herein and with respect to related applications.

As used herein the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an instance an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary or various forms thereof are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Furthermore examples are provided solely for purposes of clarity and understanding and are not meant to limit or restrict the claimed subject matter or relevant portions of this disclosure in any manner. It is to be appreciated that a myriad of additional or alternate examples of varying scope could have been presented but have been omitted for purposes of brevity.

As used herein the term inference or infer refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the subject innovation.

Furthermore all or portions of the subject innovation may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed innovation. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

In order to provide additional context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the systems methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor multiprocessor or multi core processor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed subject matter can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects disclosed herein includes a computer e.g. desktop laptop server hand held programmable consumer or industrial electronics . . . . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available microprocessors. It is to be appreciated that dual microprocessors multi core and other multiprocessor architectures can be employed as the processing unit .

The system memory includes volatile and nonvolatile memory. The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM . Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which can act as external cache memory to facilitate processing.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example mass storage . Mass storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic or optical disk drive floppy disk drive flash memory or memory stick. In addition mass storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media.

The computer also includes one or more interface components that are communicatively coupled to the bus and facilitate interaction with the computer . By way of example the interface component can be a port e.g. serial parallel PCMCIA USB FireWire . . . or an interface card e.g. sound video network . . . or the like. The interface component can receive input and provide output wired or wirelessly . For instance input can be received from devices including but not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner camera other computer and the like. Output can also be supplied by the computer to output device s via interface component . Output devices can include displays e.g. CRT LCD plasma . . . speakers printers and other computers among other things. In accordance with another aspect it should be noted that one of the interface components can include one or more antennas for receiving and transmitting wireless communications between and or amongst other computers processor based devices and or peripherals among other things.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Client server interactions can be utilized with respect with respect to various aspects of the claimed subject matter. By way of example and not limitation a server can afford a social pricing system or service that is accessed by way of a client device directly or indirectly. Further the server can provide or support a social networking application or technology also accessed by individuals via one or more clients .

Referring to an exemplary system for conducting business is shown in which multiple buyers and sellers are electronically linked via a central server . The central server is configured to provide the buyers and sellers with a convenient forum in which to buy and sell goods in accordance with a social pricing technology described herein. By way of example and not limitation the forum can be a pre established Internet web page where sellers are able to post product information and the buyers are able to order the products. The volume pricing scheme preferably calls for a seller to post a pricing structure for a product which provides discounted pricing as more products are purchased during a preset open session period e.g. limited time . Each buyer is able to place an order for the product during the open session at the then current price. At the end of the open session the total quantity of products ordered by all buyers is calculated and the product is sold to all buyers at the same lowest price based on the preset price for that quantity amount. In this manner each of the buyers work together to increase the total quantity of products purchased so that all of the buyers realize discounted pricing due to the cumulative order.

Each of the buyers and sellers may access the central server in any of a variety of ways. For example in the subject embodiment each buyer and seller is shown to be part of separate establishments which include one or more respective computer systems and local servers . The computer systems may for example be a desktop or laptop computer with a local area network LAN interface for communicating over a network backbone to the local server . The local servers in turn interface with the central server via a network cable or the like. It will be appreciated that while the subject embodiment depicts the computer system communicating with the central server via hardwired network connections in an alternative embodiment the computer system may interface with the central server using a modem wireless local area and or wide area networks etc. Further it will be appreciated that while the buyers and sellers are shown to communicate with the central server via different computer systems it will be appreciated that the buyers and or sellers may access the central server from the same computer system .

It should be appreciated that central server or managing entity thereof can provide services to any of buyer or sellers in accordance with a contractual agreement. Moreover central server can structure agreements in disparate ways for different classes of users or for particular users and so on. For example central server can provide various packages such as a standard package and a pro package or substantially any permutation thereof or substantially any number of disparate tiers of service wherein various features can be available only for a particular level of service. One example of such can be found with respect to Table III below which lists various product features along with an indication of whether or not a particular feature is included in various packages. In this case only two packages are listed yet it should be appreciated that others can be included as well e.g. each reflecting a desired level of service.

Appreciably solutions described herein can evolve into a working data warehouse to provide business intelligence specifically to individual sellers. One result can be to give sellers as much relevant information as possible about the performance of their offers. Such can include high level metrics as well as the ability to do a deep dive into specific information such as that associated with any particular metric. In one embodiment a seller can purchase access to various functionality or features provided by the seller dashboard or another portion of seller interface component of .

Because such information can represent as substantial revenue opportunity for the seller the seller will likely find value in purchasing such information. To meet expectations of such value the seller dashboard can provide accurate real time metrics in the most usable manner as substantially described herein. For example high level metrics can appear on the dashboard tab of the seller dashboard. The idea being that this information is the first thing the seller sees when logging into the system.

In addition simple intuitive navigation can be provided that allows the seller to drill down into any of the metrics obtain additional information or detail. In particular design and or layout of the dashboard ideally will be such that the next likely question a seller would ask can be answered with a single additional click on the seller dashboard. Furthermore the navigation scheme can be consistent with the remainder of the dashboard in order to add to the intuitive nature of navigation.

Thus information at every level can be cleanly presented based upon previous experimentation with charts graphs tables and other representations directed to discovering preferred and or intuitive formats for each piece of data. Accordingly it can be appreciated that a tool employed to display one particular data set may not be the most usable or likely tool to be selected to display another data set.

Moreover the seller dashboard or another suitable component described herein such as import export component can provide the ability to sellers to export data to another format outside of the host system provided by central server . The most likely formats will be Microsoft Excel or Quicken but other formats may make sense as well. Accordingly algorithms for export to popular formats can be optimized and maintained for multiple versions to provide backward compatibility.

In one or more aspects a trial period can be provided to the seller for instance to give the seller access to various features prior to purchasing the service. However upon provision of payment by the seller which can be negotiated through a broker site access to the sellers data can be provided immediately. Moreover data prior to receipt of seller s payment can also be made available to the seller for example ten days prior. Furthermore assuming the service is provided on a subscription basis or is otherwise recurring then the seller can utilize all purchased tools or data sets for a specified period. At the end of the period the seller can be charged again potentially in an automatic fashion.

Among the features that can be provided and or provisioned on a subscription basis can relate to prosumer activity past current future offers product mix and order and can include at least the following sub features 

To provide additional detail with respect to prosumer marketing tools it should be understood that such tools can be implemented as a web based platform which can be attached or accessed via the seller dashboard. Activation of these tools e.g. through purchase can enable another tab on the seller dashboard. One purpose of these tools in the platform can be to market specifically to prosumers typically the most active and or valuable buyers for any given seller.

As noted previously these tools may not be available until the seller purchases access. In such cases however after payment processing these tools can be available in real time which are described in more detail below 

Furthermore in connection with other features discussed herein e.g. seller interface component prosumer interaction etc. prosumer tools can be segmented into at least four distinct categories including by way of illustration an email engine coupon engine aggregate prosumer database and prosumer metrics each of which is detailed herein.

What has been described above includes examples of the various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the detailed description is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the embodiments. In this regard it will also be recognized that the embodiments includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

