---

title: Recognizing financial document images
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to methods, apparatus systems and computer program products that provide for using real-time video analysis for recognizing financial document images by capturing a real-time video stream using a mobile device, wherein the video stream features one or more financial documents, analyzing and correlating the images in the real-time video stream to the images necessary to process the financial document, providing notice to a user of additional images needed to process the financial document and communicating the information associated with the financial document to a financial institution to complete a transaction once sufficient images of the financial document have been captured to process the financial document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08811711&OS=08811711&RS=08811711
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08811711
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120101
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 450 213 filed Mar. 8 2011 entitled Real Time Video Image Analysis Applications for Commerce Activity and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 508 944 filed Jul. 18 2011 entitled Recognizing Financial Document Images the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Modern mobile devices such as smart phones and the like combine multiple technologies to provide the user with a vast array of capabilities. For example many smart phones are equipped with significant processing power sophisticated multi tasking operating systems and high bandwidth Internet connection capabilities. Moreover such devices often have additional features that are becoming increasingly more common as standardized features. Such features include but are not limited to location determining devices such as Global Positioning System GPS devices sensor devices such as accelerometers and touch pads and high resolution video cameras.

As the hardware capabilities of such mobile devices have increased so to have the applications i.e. software that rely on the hardware advances. One such example of innovative software is a category known as augmented reality AR or more generally referred to as mediated reality. One such example of an AR application platform is Layar available from Layar Amsterdam the Netherlands.

The Layar platform technology analyzes real time video data location data compass direction data and the like in combination with information related to the objects locations or the like in the video stream to create browse able hot spots or tags that are superimposed on the mobile device display resulting in an experience described as reality browsing .

Presently most financial institutions require their customers to visit traditional deposit locations such as banking centers automated teller machines ATMs and the like in order to deposit cash checks and or other deposit items. However traveling to and from a traditional deposit location in order to make a deposit is increasingly viewed by financial institution customers as burdensome time consuming and wasteful.

If a financial institution has a mechanism in place to capture deposit items remotely it is done with the capture of a single image and or static image and the image is not actively processed. This results in delays in the processing of transactions as deficiencies in the captured images are not discovered as the image is being captured and the financial institution and the customer will be burdened with having to verify and correct the originally captured image.

Therefore a need exists to implement real time video analysis i.e. AR or the like to assist in the recognition of financial documents to enable financial institution customers to engage in deposit transactions in ways that are easier more efficient and less costly.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods apparatus systems and computer program products are described herein that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user with the recognition of financial documents. Through the use of real time image object recognition magnetic ink character recognition MICR lines endorsements watermarks account numbers payee identity payor identity financial institution identity deposit amount appearance of a deposit item type of a deposit item text shapes logos colors locations and other features that can be recognized in a real time video stream to identify authenticate and process financial documents.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a method wherein a mobile device is used to capture a real time video stream that includes one or more images of a financial document. A processor analyzes the real time video stream to identify images that may be used to process the financial document. The processor then correlates the collected images of the financial document to the information needed to process the financial document. If additional images are needed to process the financial document the mobile device provides notice to the user. Once sufficient images of the financial document have been captured the mobile device communicates the information associated with the financial document to a financial institution to complete a transaction.

In some embodiments the financial document is a check cash draft bond share bill of exchange future option money order promissory note deposit slip security stock invoice or statement. In certain embodiments the notice to the user that additional images are needed to process the financial document comprises instructions to the user of how to manipulate the mobile device to capture the required images. The transaction may be a deposit transfer sale payment or exchange.

In some embodiments the method for recognizing financial document images includes the additional step of presenting one or more indicators via the display of the mobile device each indicator being associated with an image that may be used to process the financial document. In certain embodiments the one or more indicators are interactive allowing the user to access additional information associated with the image or take an action using the information associated with the image. In some such embodiments the action taken may be making a payment transferring funds to a financial institution or depositing funds with a financial institution. The indicators may also be a representation of the amount of images captured as compared to the number of images remaining to be captured before the financial document may be processed.

In certain embodiments the method also includes the additional step of creating a substitute image such as an enhanced payment order using the captured images of the financial document. In such embodiments communicating the information associated with the financial document to a financial institution comprises communicating the substitute image to the financial institution to complete a transaction.

Embodiments of the invention also provide an apparatus where the apparatus has a device for capturing a real time video stream that includes one or more images of a financial document a display operably connected to the device a processor operably connected to the device and the display and configured to analyze the real time video stream to identify images that may be used to process the financial document and correlate the images to the images needed to process the document. The processor is also configured to provide notice to the user of additional images needed to process the financial document. Such an apparatus may also include a communication device operably connected to the processor for communicating information associated with the financial document to a financial institution to complete a transaction once sufficient images of the financial document have been captured to process the financial document.

In some embodiments of the apparatus the images of the financial document being captured by the device are from a check cash draft bond share bill of exchange future option money order promissory note deposit slip security invoice or statement. The notice provided to the user by the apparatus may comprise instructions to the user of how to manipulate the device to capture the required images. The relevant transaction may be a deposit transfer sale payment or exchange.

In certain embodiments of the apparatus the processor is further configured to present one or more indicators via the display wherein each indicator is associated with an image that may be used to process the financial document. In certain embodiments the one or more indicators are interactive allowing the user to access additional information associated with the image or take an action using the information associated with the image. The action may include making a payment transferring funds to a financial institution or depositing funds with a financial institution. The indicators may also be a representation of the amount of images captured as compared to the number of images remaining to be captured before the financial document may be processed.

In further embodiments of the apparatus the processor is also configured to create a substitute image using the captured images of the financial document. The substitute image may be an enhanced payment order. The substitute image may then be communicated using the communication device to a financial institution to complete a transaction.

Embodiments of the invention also provide a computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable code stored thereon. In one embodiment the computer executable code includes a first code portion stored in memory and configured to capture via a mobile device a real time video stream that includes one or more images of a financial document a second code portion configured to analyze the real time video stream to identify images that may be used to process the financial document a third code portion configured to correlate the captured images of the financial document to the information needed to process the financial document a fourth code portion configured to provide notice to the user of additional images needed to process the financial document and a fifth code portion configured to communicate instructions to a financial institution to complete a transaction once sufficient images of the financial document have been captured to process the financial document.

In other embodiments the computer program product will include a sixth code portion stored in the memory and configured to present one or more indicators via a display each indicator being associated with an image that may be used to process the financial document. Some embodiments will also include a seventh code portion that is stored in the memory and configured to create a substitute image using the captured images of the financial document. In such embodiments communicating the information associated with the financial document to a financial institution comprises communicating the substitute image to the financial institution to complete the transaction.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present invention or may be combined with yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Thus methods systems computer programs and the like are herein disclosed that provide for using real time video analysis such as AR or the like to assist the user with the recognition of financial document images.

The methods systems computer programs and the like disclosed herein use real time vision object recognition to identify magnetic ink character recognition MICR lines endorsements watermarks account numbers payee identity payor identity financial institution identity deposit amount appearance of a deposit item type of a deposit item text shapes logos colors locations and other features that can be recognized in a real time video stream to identify authenticate and process financial documents. Once the financial document is sufficiently identified the information is communicated to a financial institution to complete a transaction.

It will be understood that financial document or financial instrument as used herein refers to any document that has a monetary value or represents a legally enforceable agreement between two or more parties regarding a right to payment of money or the obligation to pay money. Financial documents include but are not limited to checks cash drafts bonds shares bills of exchange futures options money orders promissory notes deposit slips securities invoices statements and the like.

While embodiments discussed herein are generally described with respect to real time video streams or real time video it will be appreciated that the video stream may be captured and stored for later viewing and analysis. Indeed in some embodiments video is recorded and stored on a mobile device and portions or the entirety of the video may be analyzed at a later time. The later analysis may be conducted on the mobile device or loaded onto a different device for analysis. The portions of the video that may be stored and analyzed may range from a single frame of video e.g. a screenshot to the entirety of the video. Additionally rather than video the user may opt to take multiple still pictures of a financial document to be analyzed immediately or at a later time. Embodiments in which real time video recorded video or still pictures are analyzed are contemplated herein.

The mobile device may generally include a processor communicably coupled to such components as a memory user output devices user input devices a network interface a power source a clock or other timer a camera a positioning system device e.g. a Global Positioning System GPS device one or more integrated circuits etc.

The processor and other processors described herein may generally include circuitry for implementing communication and or logic functions of the mobile device . For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and or other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the mobile device may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor thus may also include the functionality to encode and interleave messages and data prior to modulation and transmission. The processor may additionally include an internal data modem. Further the processor may include functionality to operate one or more software programs or applications which may be stored in the memory . For example the processor may be capable of operating a connectivity program such as a web browser application . The web browser application may then allow the mobile device to transmit and receive web content such as for example location based content and or other web page content according to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and or the like.

The processor may also be capable of operating applications such as an object recognition application . The object recognition application may be downloaded from a server and stored in the memory of the mobile device . Alternatively the object recognition application may be pre installed and stored in a memory in the integrated circuit or operated directly from a website operably linked to the mobile device through the network interface . In embodiments where the object recognition application is pre installed or run from a website the user may not need to download the object recognition application from a server.

The integrated circuit may include the necessary circuitry to provide the object recognition functionality to the mobile device . Generally the integrated circuit will include data storage which may include data associated with the objects within a real time video stream that the object recognition application identifies as having certain marker s discussed in relation to . The integrated circuit and or data storage may be an integrated circuit a microprocessor a system on a chip a microcontroller or the like. As discussed above in one embodiment the integrated circuit may provide the AR functionality to the mobile device .

Of note while illustrates the integrated circuit as a separate and distinct element within the mobile device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the integrated circuit functionality may be incorporated within other elements in the mobile device . For instance the functionality of the integrated circuit may be incorporated within the mobile device memory and or the processor . In a particular embodiment the functionality of the integrated circuit is incorporated in an element within the mobile device that provides object recognition capabilities to the mobile device . Moreover the functionality may be part of the firmware of the mobile device . Still further the integrated circuit functionality may be included in a removable storage device such as an SD card or the like.

The processor may be configured to use the network interface to communicate with one or more other devices on a network. In this regard the network interface may include an antenna operatively coupled to a transmitter and a receiver together a transceiver . The processor may be configured to provide signals to and receive signals from the transmitter and receiver respectively. The signals may include signaling information in accordance with the air interface standard of the applicable cellular system of the wireless telephone network that may be part of the network. In this regard the mobile device may be configured to operate with one or more air interface standards communication protocols modulation types and access types. By way of illustration the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with any of a number of first second third and or fourth generation communication protocols and or the like. For example the mobile device may be configured to operate in accordance with second generation 2G wireless communication protocols IS 136 time division multiple access TDMA GSM global system for mobile communication and or IS 95 code division multiple access CDMA or with third generation 3G wireless communication protocols such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS CDMA2000 wideband CDMA WCDMA and or time division synchronous CDMA TD SCDMA with fourth generation 4G wireless communication protocols and or the like. The mobile device may also be configured to operate in accordance with non cellular communication mechanisms such as via a wireless local area network WLAN or other communication data networks.

The network interface may also include an object recognition interface in order to allow a user to execute some or all of the above described processes with respect to the object recognition application and or the integrated circuit . The object recognition interface may have access to the hardware e.g. the transceiver and software previously described with respect to the network interface . Furthermore the object recognition interface may have the ability to connect to and communicate with an external data storage on a separate system within the network as a means of recognizing the object s in the video stream.

As described above the mobile device may have a user interface that includes user output devices and or user input devices . The user output devices may include a display e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or the like and a speaker or other audio device which are operatively coupled to the processor . The user input devices which may allow the mobile device to receive data from a user may include any of a number of devices allowing the mobile device to receive data from a user such as a keypad keyboard touch screen touchpad microphone mouse joystick stylus other pointer device button soft key and or other input device s .

The mobile device may further include a power source . Generally the power source is a device that supplies electrical energy to an electrical load. In one embodiment power source may convert a form of energy such as solar energy chemical energy mechanical energy etc. to electrical energy. Generally the power source in the mobile device may be a battery such as a lithium battery a nickel metal hydride battery or the like that is used for powering various circuits e.g. the transceiver circuit and other devices that are used to operate the mobile device . Alternatively the power source may be a power adapter that can connect a power supply from a power outlet to the mobile device . In such embodiments a power adapter may be classified as a power source in the mobile device.

The mobile device may also include a memory operatively coupled to the processor . As used herein memory may include any computer readable medium configured to store data code or other information. The memory may include volatile memory such as volatile Random Access Memory RAM including a cache area for the temporary storage of data. The memory may also include non volatile memory which can be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or the like.

The memory may store any of a number of applications or programs which comprise computer executable instructions code executed by the processor to implement the functions of the mobile device described herein. For example the memory may include such applications as an AR application described herein in relation to a web browser application an SMS application an email application an object recognition application etc.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an object recognition experience in which a user utilizes the mobile device to capture real time video of an environment that includes at least one financial document is shown. The user may be without limitation an individual for example a customer of a financial institution seeking to perform a remote deposit a merchant seeking to verify a financial document as part of a transaction a financial institution or the like. As denoted earlier the mobile device may be any mobile communication device. The mobile device has the capability of capturing real time video of the surrounding environment . The real time video capture may be by any means known in the art. In one particular embodiment the mobile device is a mobile telephone equipped with a camera capable of video capture.

The environment includes at least one financial document . Within the document or the document considered as a whole are a number of objects . Some of such objects may include a marker identifiable to the mobile device in some embodiments through an object recognition application that is executed on the mobile device or within the wireless network. A marker may be any type of marker that is a distinguishing feature that can be interpreted by the mobile device to identify the specific object or the financial document as a whole. For instance in identifying a financial document a marker may be MICR lines and endorsement watermarks account numbers payee identity payor identity financial institution identity deposit amount appearance of a deposit item size of the financial instrument other text logos shapes colors etc. Moreover the marker may be a sensor transmitter chip radio frequency identification RFID tag or the like embedded or otherwise incorporated in the financial document. The marker may be any size shape etc. Indeed in some embodiments the marker may be very small relative to the object such as a watermark or a security strip in a type of currency whereas in other embodiments the marker may be the entire object such as the size ratio and proportion of a check.

The marker may also be or include customer data maintained by a financial institution or merchant such as transactional data account history data and biographical data. For example the mobile device may capture a video stream or a financial instrument such as a check determine from the image that the check belongs to a customer of the financial institution correlate the check number and amount to a transaction in the customer s transactional history data to verify the authenticity of the check. Similarly the mobile device may capture an image of the endorsement line of a financial document and compare the endorsement to a signature on file with the financial institution. In such cases the customer data serves as one of the markers used to process the financial document.

In some embodiments the mobile device accesses one or more servers networks applications and or the like in order to retrieve and or search for information useful in performing object recognition. In some embodiments the mobile device accesses another application by way of an application programming interface or API. In this regard the mobile device may quickly search and or retrieve information from the other program without requiring additional authentication steps or other gateway steps.

In some embodiments the mobile device accesses one or more databases or datastores not shown to search for and or retrieve information related to the object and or marker . In some embodiments the mobile device accesses one or more datastores local to the mobile device and in other embodiments the mobile device accesses datastores remote to the mobile device. In some embodiments the mobile device accesses both a memory and or datastore local to the mobile device as well as a datastore remote from the mobile device .

In some embodiments the marker is not actually a feature associated with the financial document . For instance the marker may be some type of identifiable feature such as objects text locations and other features that indicate that the object may be used to process the financial document . The marker may be anything that enables the mobile device to interpret to a desired confidence level what the object is. For example the mobile device may capture a video of a financial document collect the user s position using the positioning system device and correlate that position to the address of a customer s residence or place of business. The mobile device may then also capture a real time video of a signature being applied to the financial document by someone writing with his left hand which is consistent with the customer s biographical data maintained by the financial institution and conclude that the signature on the financial document belongs to the customer and is sufficient to process the financial document. Accordingly the markers associated with the location of where the signature was applied and the individual s biographical data were sufficient to identify images of the financial document that could be used to process the financial document without relying on the markers of the financial document.

While illustrates that the objects with markers only include a single marker it will be appreciated that the object may have any number of markers with each equally capable of identifying the object . Similarly multiple markers may be identified by the mobile device such that the combination of the markers may be utilized to identify the object . For example the mobile device may utilize the markers of the image of a routing number from a check and text printed on the check to identify the issuing financial institution.

In some embodiments an marker may be the location of the object . In such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user . As noted above a location based marker could be utilized in conjunction with other non location based markers identifiable and recognized by the mobile device to identify the object . However in some embodiments a location based marker may be the only marker . For instance in such embodiments the mobile device may utilize GPS software to determine the location of the user and a compass device or software to determine the direction or tilt of the mobile device in order to identify the object . In still further embodiments the mobile device does not utilize any GPS data in the identification. In such embodiments markers utilized to identify the object are not location based.

The object recognition application may use any type of means in order to identify desired objects . For instance the object recognition application may utilize one or more pattern recognition algorithms to analyze objects in the financial document and compare with markers in data storage which may be contained within the mobile device such as within integrated circuit or externally on a separate system accessible via the connected network. For example the pattern recognition algorithms may include decision trees logistic regression Bayes classifiers support vector machines kernel estimation perceptrons clustering algorithms regression algorithms categorical sequence labeling algorithms real valued sequence labeling algorithms parsing algorithms general algorithms for predicting arbitrarily structured labels such as Bayesian networks and Markov random fields ensemble learning algorithms such as bootstrap aggregating boosting ensemble averaging combinations thereof and the like.

Upon identifying an object within the real time video stream in some embodiments the AR application is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display . The virtual image is generally a tab or link displayed such that the user may select the virtual image and retrieve information related to the identified object. The information may include any desired information associated with the selected object and may range from basic information to greatly detailed information. In some embodiments the virtual image may provide the user with an Internet hyperlink to further information on the object . The information may include for example all types of media such as text images clipart video clips movies or any other type of information desired. In yet other embodiments the information related to the identified object may be visualized by the user without selecting the virtual image

In embodiments in which the virtual image provides an interactive tab to the user the user may select the virtual image by any conventional means for interaction with the mobile device . For instance in some embodiments the user may utilize an input device such as a keyboard to highlight and select the virtual image in order to retrieve the information. In a particular embodiment the mobile device display includes a touch screen that the user may employ to select the virtual image utilizing the user s finger a stylus or the like.

In some embodiments and depending on the nature of the user i.e. customer of a financial institution merchant etc. selecting the virtual image will cause the AR application to present the user with the opportunity to take a specific action such as contacting via e mail chat phone call etc. the issuing financial institution viewing transaction data relating to the account associated with the financial document verifying sufficient funds to cover the amount specified in the financial document visually comparing the endorsement on a check to an image file of a signature associated with the account pull up additional information about a payee authorizing a payment approving a transfer of funds etc.

In some embodiments the virtual image is not interactive and simply provides information to the user by superimposing the virtual image onto the display . For example in some instances it may be beneficial for the AR application to merely identify an object so the user has a visual indication that the mobile device has captured an image that may be used to process the financial document rather than provide extensive detail that requires interaction with the virtual image . The mobile device is capable of being tailored to a user s desired preferences.

The virtual image may be displayed at any size on the mobile device display . The virtual image may be small enough that it is positioned on or next to the object being identified such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image . Additionally the virtual image may be semi transparent such that the object remains discernable behind the virtual image. In other embodiments the virtual image may be large enough to completely cover the object portrayed on the display . Indeed in some embodiments the virtual image may cover a majority or the entirety of the mobile device display .

The user may opt to execute the object recognition application and AR application at any desired moment and begin video capture and analysis. However in some embodiments e.g. in situations where images of a number of financial documents are being captured over an extended period of time such as in a retail environment the object recognition application and AR application include an always on feature in which the mobile device is continuously capturing video and analyzing the objects within the video stream. In such embodiments the object recognition application may be configured to alert the user that an insufficient number of objects have been identified to process the financial document or that a particular object e.g. payor information from an individual that has previously been associated with a check requiring further inquiry has been identified. The user may set any number of user preferences to tailor the object recognition experience to their needs. Additionally it will be appreciated that the always on feature in which video is continuously captured may consume the mobile device power source more quickly. Thus in some embodiments the always on feature may disengage if a determined event occurs such as low power source low levels of light for an extended period of time e.g. such as if the mobile device is in a user s pocket obstructing a clear view of the environment from the mobile device if the mobile device remains stationary thus receiving the same video stream for an extended period of time the user sets a certain time of day to disengage etc. Conversely if the always on feature is disengaged due to the occurrence of such an event the user may opt for the always on feature to re engage after the duration of the disengaging event e.g. power source is re charged light levels are increased etc. .

In some embodiments the user may identify objects that the object recognition application does not identify and add it to the data storage with desired information in order to be identified and or displayed in the future. For instance the user may select an unidentified object such as initials entered above a correction within a financial document and enter information associated with the object to be saved in the data storage for future use by the object recognition application . Furthermore in cases where the object information is within the data storage but the object recognition application fails to identify the object e.g. the financial instrument is smudged or damaged making a quality image capture difficult or the marker simply was not identified the user may select the object and associate it with an object already stored in the data storage . In such cases the object recognition application may be capable of updating the markers for the object in order to identify the object in future real time video streams.

In some embodiments the processor may also be capable of operating one or more applications such as one or more applications functioning as an artificial intelligence AI engine. The processor may recognize objects that it has identified in prior uses by way of the AI engine. In this way the processor may recognize specific objects and or classes of objects and store information related to the recognized objects in one or more memories and or databases discussed herein. Once the AI engine has thereby learned of an object and or class of objects the AI engine may run concurrently with and or collaborate with other modules or applications described herein to perform the various steps of the methods discussed. For example in some embodiments the AI engine recognizes an object that has been recognized before and stored by the AI engine. The AI engine may then communicate to another application or module of the mobile device an indication that the object may be the same object previously recognized. In this regard the AI engine may provide a baseline or starting point from which to determine the nature of the object. In other embodiments the AI engine s recognition of an object is accepted as the final recognition of the object.

In addition in some embodiments the user may opt to edit the information or add to the information provided by the virtual image . For instance the user may opt to include user specific information about a certain object such that the information may be displayed upon a future identification of the object . For instance the user may add a note associated with a specific payor that the payor has previously forged financial documents or presented false identification information so that this information is provided in the future if the mobile device captures an image of a financial document with that individual as the payor. Conversely in some embodiments the user may opt to delete or hide an object from being identified and a virtual image associated therewith being displayed on the mobile device display . For instance if the user is capturing images of a number of financial documents known to have issued from a certain financial institution the user may hide any object identifying the issuing financial institution so as not to crowd the display .

As represented by block the user presents one or more financial documents e.g. a check deposit slip currency etc. . At block the mobile device captures a real time video stream of the financial document. In an exemplary embodiment the user operates a mobile smartphone with a built in camera to capture the real time video stream. The video may be displayed concurrently in a display on the mobile device or the video may be streamed to another device for display. As previously discussed in some embodiment the real time video stream is always on or on until the battery reaches a pre determined level. In some embodiments the user will be required to authenticate himself or herself as an authorized user before the mobile device object recognition application and or AR application will operate. In some instances the authentication will be in the form of a password finger swipe pattern challenge question etc. The authentication may also be taken from the user s biometric data such as an iris scan palm print fingerprint or the like. This biometric information may be collected directly by the mobile device or by a suitable collection apparatus or system operatively connected to the mobile device. This authentication step may be required at one or more of the steps described in process flow and discussed below including capturing a real time video stream presenting indicators of identifying images to a display and communicating instructions to a financial institution .

In block the mobile device analyzes the real time video stream to identify images of the financial document that may be used to process the financial document. In some instances the information or image needed to process a financial document is set by the receiving financial institution and the amount nature quality type etc. of images that must be captured to process the financial document will be unique to the financial institution. The information necessary to process a financial document may also be set by law regulation standards organizations industry best practices etc. In some embodiments the information relating to what images are required to process a financial document will be stored in a memory that is accessible to the mobile device e.g. memory . In other embodiments this information will be dynamically collected for instance from a website or intranet. In some embodiments the user will be presented with the opportunity to identify the type of financial document being scanned e.g. identifying it as money order or share and thereby determine the images needed to process the financial document. In other embodiments the object recognition application or another application will identify the type of financial document directly from the captured image. For instance the object recognition application may identify the MICR lines or similarly standardized images and identify the financial document as a check. This identification will not only indicate the nature quality and type of images that needs to be captured to process the document but may direct the application to other areas of the document with images that may be relevant to processing the document e.g. if the object recognition application identifies the document as a check it can automatically look for a check amount number payor information etc.

As represented by block in certain embodiments the mobile device will present on a display one or more indicators each indicator being associated with an image that may be used to process the financial document. In certain embodiments such indicators will take the form of a virtual image as discussed herein. In other embodiments the indicators will take the form of a status bar image painting percentage indicator or the like indicating the amount of images collected as compared to the number of images remaining to be collected before the financial document may be processed. As shown in block the user in some instances will be able to interact with the indicators presented on the display. In some embodiments the user will be able to select an indicator to gather additional information relating to the image. For instance if an indicator associated with a payee is presented the user can select the indicator and additional information about the payee may be presented on the display or selecting the indicator may take the user to a website associated with the payee. By way of another example in use a merchant may be presented with a check in connection with a retail transaction. The merchant can use the present invention to capture an image of the check with a mobile device such as a hand held scanner that is connected to a display. In addition to being able to determine when sufficient images of the check have been captured to process the check the merchant may be presented on the display an indicator associated with the check amount. The merchant may be able to select that indicator and receive an indication from the financial institution from which the check is drawn as to whether the balance in the customer s account will cover the amount of the check. As yet another example a user may capture an image of an invoice and an indicator or indicators may appear to indicate sufficient images of the invoice of have been captured to arrange for payment of the invoice by the user s financial institution e.g. the issuer s name and address the amount due an invoice number the user s account number etc. . The user may be able to select one such indicator to authorize a one time payment of the invoice. The user may also be able to select an indicator associated with the image of the invoice to set up recurring payments to the issuer of the invoice.

In block the mobile device correlates the collected images of the financial document to the information needed to process the financial documents. As previously discussed the information needed to process the financial documents may be set by law regulation policy procedure best practices etc. If the mobile device determines that additional images are needed to collect sufficient information to process the financial document as represented by block the mobile device provides notice to the user that additional images are needed. Such notice may consist of specific instructions of what images need to be captured or merely indicate that the user needs to capture additional images in order to process the financial document. In use lighting shadows wrinkles smudges or other defects in the document etc. as well as camera angle distance from the financial document etc. may inhibit the mobile device from capturing a sufficient image of the financial document to identify all information necessary to process the document. By capturing a video stream and moving the mobile device around the financial document to different quadrants of the document tilting the camera at different angles zooming in and or out from the financial document the mobile device will capture a fuller image of the financial document. The processor of the mobile device can analyze the images captured and determine what aspects of the image may be enhanced e.g. insufficient pixels have been captured as compared to a test image or quality standard and what actions of the user may be done to capture the necessary images. For example if the user is at such an angle to the financial document that the image capture device is only getting a good image of the left half of the document the mobile device may notify the user that it needs to move the image capture device to the right in order to capture the additional images needed to process the financial document. At block the user adjusts the mobile device to capture the additional images and the flow of recognizing financial document images moves back to analyzing the real time video stream to identify images that may be used to process the financial document at block and proceeds on until there are no additional images that are required to process the financial document.

As represented by block once sufficient images of the financial document have been captured to process the financial document the mobile device communicates the necessary information to a financial institution. The communication of the information to the financial institution may occur automatically after sufficient images have been captured. Alternatively in some embodiments the user will receive notification that sufficient images have been captured and may be required to affirmatively instruct the AR application mobile device etc. to communicate the necessary information to the financial institution for example by swiping or tapping the image of the financial document or actuating an indicator or other button presented on the display . In some embodiments communicating information to a financial institution will include encrypting the data or the like before it is transmitted to the financial institution in order to protect the information from being intercepted during transmission.

In some embodiments communicating the information associated with the financial document to a financial institution may involve the transfer of the actual image of the financial document captured by the mobile device to the financial institution. In such embodiments the user manipulates the mobile device capturing images of the financial document and the mobile device sends a high quality image of the financial document e.g. a still frame of the real time video with the most complete image of the financial document or compiles the captured pixels from multiple images into a single image of the financial document. In other embodiments the mobile device will use the capture of the real time video stream to recognize information from the financial document and use this information to create a substitute image such as an enhanced payment order that correlates to the information in the financial document. In such embodiments the mobile device will combine recognized data from the real time data stream with image data to create a clearer image. For instance if the mobile device captures the image of a handwritten check the mobile device may recognize the payment amount and the payee from the handwriting on the check and create a substitute image wherein this information appears in typed text and numbers rather than in the original handwritten form. In such embodiments the substitute image may then be communicated to the financial institution for completion of the transaction.

As shown in block the financial institution processes the transaction embodied by the financial document. For example if a customer of a financial institution used an embodiment of the invention to deposit a paycheck the customer might scan her paycheck with a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone until the object recognition application and or AR application was able to collect an image of the amount payor name payor account information issuing financial institution routing number and a verified signature. The customer may then also scan a deposit slip issued by the financial institution filled out to deposit the amount of the paycheck into a savings account. In some embodiments the user may scan a blank deposit slip issued by the financial institution and the mobile device may present indicators in the available fields of the deposit slip that the user can interact with to enter the necessary deposit information using the mobile device. In yet other embodiments after the deposit slip is scanned the application may populate the identified fields in the deposit slip with the appropriate information from the paycheck. Also a blank deposit slip may have been previously scanned by the user and stored in the memory of the mobile device so that it is not necessary to scan a new blank deposit slip to complete a transaction. At some point the mobile device may indicate to the user that she needs to scan an image of the endorsement of the paycheck before the documents can be processed. The user captures a video of the endorsement on the check and the mobile device communicates the images to the financial institution which in turn deposits the amount of the paycheck into the user s account. In another example a user may use the mobile device to scan a statement issued by a credit card company. The user manipulates the mobile device until the mobile device captures sufficient images from the credit card statement to pay the credit card issuer. Such images may include the credit card issuer s name and logo from the top of the statement the credit card number the user s name and address the current balance and minimum payment due and the date the payment must be submitted. While scanning the statement interactive indicators may appear on the display of the mobile device over the minimum payment and or current balance allowing the user to select the indicator and pay the associated amount i.e. the minimum balance or current balance . The mobile device may then communicate the collected information about the credit card statement to a financial institution to complete the transfer of funds from the user s account with the financial institution to the credit card issuer.

It should be understood that every step of flow does not need to occur in the order described herein and in some instances will not occur at all. Different steps in the computer implemented method can be skipped or moved around and still accomplish the goal of recognizing financial document images. For example the mobile device may only display indicators associated with images that may be used to process the financial document block after the mobile devices has captured all of the necessary images. Accordingly the steps disclosed herein are not limiting to the exact order discussed.

Referring now to a series of exemplary display pages and of a mobile device consistent with an embodiment of the present invention are provided. It will be understood that in some embodiments each of the pages and are displayed on the display of the mobile device . It will also be understood that the mobile device is configured in some embodiments to navigate from page to page and or vice versa either by actuating one of the buttons or one of the other input devices . It will be further understood that the display pages and can be embodied as portions of the AR Application as Internet web pages and or the like. In addition it will be understood that in some embodiments the apparatus having the process flow and are configured to implement any one or more of the embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein in connection with the display pages and .

Referring now to it will be understood that in some embodiments the display page is displayed in connection with presenting one or more indicators associated with an image that may be used to process a financial document as represented by block of an apparatus having a process flow and or in connection with providing notice to a user of additional images needed to process the financial document as represented by block of an apparatus having a process flow . Alternatively the display page is displayed after the user navigates to the page from another display page e.g. . As shown in this embodiment the display page includes an image painting i.e. visual reproduction of the amount and quality of the image collected and indicator of the percentage of the completed image capture and instructions for capturing the additional images needed to complete the image capture to a sufficient degree to process the financial document. As illustrated the user has only captured 47 of the images necessary to process the financial document . The mobile device is also prompting the user to move the camera to the right and tilt the camera towards and away from the financial document to capture additional images .

Referring now to the display page in some embodiments is displayed in connection with presenting one or more indicators associated with an image that may be used to process a financial document as represented by block of an apparatus having a process flow . Referring to after identifying an object e.g an endorsement MICR lines within the real time video stream the mobile device in some embodiments is configured to superimpose a virtual image on the mobile device display . In the embodiment shown in the display page includes a plurality of virtual images superimposed over the image of the financial document . The image of the financial document as shown in display page may be a display of the image in the real time video stream or alternatively may be the completed image painting discussed in references to display page . In such embodiments the user may be able to actuate the virtual images to perform certain functions or collect additional information about the identified image. For instance the user may actuate virtual image which is associated with the routing number of the financial institution from which the financial document is drawn. Actuating virtual image may allow the user to contact the financial institution to inquire about the account payor transaction etc. By way of further example virtual image as shown in display page is associated with the signature line on the financial document . By selecting the virtual image the user may be presented with a side by side comparison of the signature on the financial document and a signature file associated with the account enabling the user the AR application or the like to compare the two signatures. Similarly actuating the virtual image may present information about the signatory collected from customer data held by financial institution. In yet another example virtual image is associated with the payor information. If a merchant submitted the financial document for payment from the payor s financial institution but the check exceeded the balance in the customer s account the merchant may be able to use the mobile device to scan the financial document and generate automatic communications to the payor by selecting the virtual image . Similarly a merchant may be able to actuate the virtual image to collect additional information about the payor such as a driver s license number phone number membership in the merchant s loyalty program etc. to further validate the check. Such information may be collected from data maintained by the merchant or from a financial institution or vendor with which the merchant partners to validate its checks. As yet one further example in some embodiments the user may be able to determine whether the balance of the account associated with the financial document is greater than the amount involved in the transaction by selecting the virtual image . In other embodiments the virtual image will automatically present this information without the user having to select the virtual image. For instance the virtual image associated with the check amount may be displayed as green if the account has sufficient funds and red if there are insufficient funds.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

The systems methods computer program products etc. described herein may be utilized or combined with any other suitable AR related application. Non limiting examples of other suitable AR related applications include those described in the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference 

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

