---

title: Geospatial data based assessment of driver behavior
abstract: A method of geospatial data based assessment driver behavior to improve driver safety and efficiency is disclosed. A method of a server device may comprise determining that a telemetry data is associated with a vehicle communicatively coupled with the server device and comparing the telemetry data with a driver objective data. A variance between the telemetry data and the driver objective data may then be determined. A performance score may be generated upon comparison of the variance to a threshold limit and/or the driver objective data. The performance score may be published along with other performance scores of other drivers in other vehicles also communicatively coupled with the server device to a reporting dashboard module. Elements of game theory may be implemented to create a team driving challenge and/or a driver performance program to generate the performance score to improve driver safety and efficiency for commercial fleets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510200&OS=08510200&RS=08510200
owner: Spireon, Inc.
number: 08510200
owner_city: Knoxville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120315
---
This utility patent application is a Continuation In Part CIP of and incorporates by references in its entirety U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 310 629 titled ALERT GENERATION BASED ON A GEOGRAPHIC TRANSGRESSION OF A VEHICLE and filed on Dec. 2 2011 and U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 13 328 070 titled GEOSPATIAL DATA BASED MEASUREMENT OF RISK ASSOCIATED WITH A VEHICULAR SECURITY INTEREST IN A VEHICULAR LOAN PORTFOLIO and filed on Dec. 16 2011.

This disclosure relates generally to geospatial data based assessment of driver behavior with the goal of improving driver safety and efficiency and in one example embodiment using telemetry data associated with a vehicle to determine a variance between the telemetry data and one or more driver objectives and or pattern of usage information and to generate and publish a performance score associated with an individual driver and or a team and or fleet of drivers. The performance score may be utilized to incentivize and improve driver safety and efficiency of the individual driver and or the team and or fleet of drivers by using components of game theory.

Driver safety and efficiency is of paramount concern to any party operating a vehicle on roads and highways. Improving driver safety and efficiency is very important to a company running and or managing a fleet of commercial vehicles. Such commercial vehicle fleets are typically comprised of trucks and other heavy duty vehicles that usually transport high value goods over vast distances. Other vehicle fleets may also use and or operate passenger vehicles e.g. taxi companies security companies etc. to be operated off highway. Therefore parties interested in assessing one or more driver s safety and or efficiency may be interested in assessing the driving behavior of the driver of the vehicle in relation to the driving behavior of other drivers of other vehicles that are part of the same fleet. A non punitive yet challenging competition between drivers may give individual drivers the incentive to drive safely and efficiently. Telemetry data from vehicles may give interested parties an understanding of the driver s driving patterns and may contribute to the assessment of safety and or efficiency.

Interested parties may use and or employ geospatial positioning devices that communicate geospatial data based on a worldwide navigational and surveying facility dependent on the reception of signals from an array of orbiting satellites e.g. Global Positioning System GPS technology . Another device might be a Real Time Locator System RTLS which uses Radio Frequency Identification RFID technology to transmit the physical location of RFID tagged objects. In addition such geospatial positioning devices may be placed directly within vehicles by Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs . For example car manufacturers may install OEM telematics solutions e.g. OnStar within all their vehicles.

The use of GPS RTLS RFID or OEM telematics based geospatial positioning devices to enable the gathering of telemetry data is gaining prominence. Geospatial positioning devices are frequently used to track and gather telemetry data associated with the vehicle. Certain locations driving behaviors and or patterns of movement associated with the driver and his her vehicle may be indicative of an increased or decreased safety and or efficiency risk. Gathering such data indicative of a driver s safety and or efficiency may be useful to improve the safety and or efficiency of the driver and or a fleet of drivers using components of game theory.

For example one reliable indicator of the safety of a driver may be the acceleration rate of the driver s vehicle. If the vehicle acceleration is high it is likely that the driver may be wasting gasoline and increasing risks of accidents and other mishaps. This determination may be extrapolated to analyze and assess the safety and or efficiency risk of an entire fleet of vehicles and their corresponding individual drivers. Therefore what is needed is a method for utilizing geospatial data e.g. locational data associated with the a vehicle to assess driver behavior by gathering and using telemetry data associated with the vehicle to improve driver safety and efficiency by incorporating components of game theory e.g. mathematics statistics economics and psychology to incentivize and motivate drivers to drive safely and efficiently.

A method of geospatial data based assessment of driver behavior is disclosed. In one aspect the method may involve determining that a telemetry data is associated with a vehicle that is communicatively coupled to a server device. The method may also involve comparing the telemetry data with a driver objective data associated with the vehicle determining a variance between the telemetry data and the driver objective data generating a performance score upon comparison of the variance to the driver objective data and or a threshold limit and publishing the performance score along with other performance scores of other drivers in other vehicles also communicatively coupled with the server device to a reporting dashboard module.

In another aspect comparing the telemetry data with the driver objective data may further comprise an algorithm that may consider a number of key performance indicators associated with a behavior trait of the driver of the vehicle. These performance indicators may comprise a limit data a route plan data an engine idling duration data a maximum rate of acceleration of the vehicle data and or a maximum rate of deceleration of the vehicle data. According to one aspect the telemetry data may comprise of a position of the vehicle a velocity of the vehicle a direction of the vehicle an acceleration of the vehicle a deceleration of the vehicle and or an engine ignition status of the vehicle.

In at least one illustrative aspect the method may comprise utilizing a geospatial positioning device in a vehicle to receive a telemetry data associable with the vehicle on a server device that contains at least one driver objective data. It may also involve gathering a pattern of usage information associable with a driver of the vehicle from the telemetry data and comparing the pattern of usage information associable with the driver of the vehicle to at least one driver objective data contained on the server device. A performance score associable with the driver of the vehicle based on the driver objective data may then be generated.

According to another aspect a method of improving a driver s behavior may comprise utilizing a geospatial positioning device in a vehicle to receive a telemetry data associable with the vehicle on a server device that contains at least one driver objective data. A pattern of usage information indicative of a safety rating and or an efficiency rating associable with the driver of the vehicle from the telemetry data may then be gathered. The method according to one or more aspects may involve comparing the pattern of usage information indicative of the safety rating and or the efficiency rating and associable with the driver of the vehicle to at least one driver objective data contained on the server device and generating a performance score indicative of the safety rating and or the efficiency rating associable with the driver and based on the driver objective data.

In another aspect the performance score indicative of the safety rating and or the efficiency rating associable with the driver may be further compared to a plurality of performance scores indicative of another safety rating and another efficiency rating associable with a plurality of drivers. The plurality of drivers may then be ranked based on a comparison of the performance scores associable with the plurality of drivers. According to one aspect a competitive situation may thus be created wherein the outcome of a driver s performance score may depend critically on the actions of the plurality of drivers that may be a part of the driver s own team and or fleet. This competitive situation among drivers may be created by incorporating components of mathematics statistics economics and psychology to analyze a theory of competition stated in terms of gains and losses e.g. the performance score among opposing drivers. The goal according to one or more aspects would be to improve driver safety and or efficiency in a non punitive yet competitive manner.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may be implemented by any means for achieving various aspects and may be executed in a form of a machine readable medium embodying a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations disclosed herein. Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Other features of the present embodiments will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

A method of a server device comprising determining that a telemetry data is associated with a vehicle communicatively coupled with the server device and comparing the telemetry data with a driver objective data associated with the vehicle is disclosed. According to one or more embodiments a variance between the telemetry data and the driver objective data may be determined. A performance score may be generated upon comparison of the variance to the driver objective data and or a threshold limit . According to an illustrative embodiment the performance score may be published along with other performance scores of other drivers in other vehicles also communicatively coupled with the server device to a reporting dashboard module .

According to other embodiments the party driving vehicle may be an agent of an organization e.g. a bank a lender or any other lending institution or person that may possess a security interest in vehicle . The relationship between the driver of vehicle and the party having a security interest in vehicle and or the party that may predetermine and or choose the driver objective data may expressly or impliedly authorize the party having the security interest and or the driver to work under the control and on behalf of the organization. The party having the security interest may thus be required to negotiate on behalf of the organization to secure and or provide services. The security interest in vehicle may be a singular security interest associated with one vehicle or a vehicular loan portfolio security interest associated with multiple vehicles according to one or more embodiments.

In one or more embodiments the telemetry data associated with vehicle may be automatically determined based on a situs of vehicle . The situs may be determined using GPS technology and may be the location where vehicle may be treated as being located for legal and jurisdictional purposes according to one embodiment. The situs may also be the place where vehicle is situated e.g. the impound lot . It may also be the temporary and or permanent location of vehicle e.g. the driver s favorite drinking establishment or the driver s home . The situs may be a home address or a work address of the driver. The driver may have multiple locations according to one embodiment.

According to an illustrative example telemetry data may be associated with vehicle based on the periodic analysis of the location and movement of vehicle . The telemetry data may then be compared to the driver objective data . This driver objective data may include a particular predetermined movement of vehicle . For example and according to one or more embodiments vehicle may have a high rate of acceleration the driver of vehicle may leave the engine idling for a period of time vehicle may not have been driven for a certain period of time or vehicle may have been driven but too infrequently e.g. less than 10 miles . The number of ignition starts and stops e.g. the driver may not have started vehicle for a period of time or may have only started vehicle once in a given week and vehicle decelerating and or braking suddenly may also be communicated as telemetry data to be compared with driver objective data according to one or more embodiments.

According to another embodiment the amount of time may vary as determined by the party setting determining and or choosing the driver objective data a lender e.g. a bank or lending institution or a provider e.g. a company selling GPS geospatial positioning devices and or a company providing the corresponding web interface to track vehicles . The party setting determining and or choosing the driver objective data may sell the hardware and or may provide a software solution to track vehicle and receive telemetry data from vehicle . The predetermined driver objective data and threshold limit may be determined by the party having a security interest in vehicle according to one or more embodiments.

The threshold limit module may permit the comparison of the variance to a threshold limit according to one embodiment. The threshold limit may be the point where the performance score may yield zero points. According to one or more embodiments if a driver s ratio of safe deceleration minutes to total driving minutes decreases below the threshold limit e.g. 97 the driver may receive zero points. If the driver s ratio exceeds the threshold limit e.g. 97 the driver may start scoring points up to a maximum score which may be achieved for a 100 ratio e.g. a perfect driving record . The performance score module may generate a performance score upon comparison of the variance to a threshold limit and or the driver objective data . It may also according to one embodiment publish the performance score along with other performance scores of other drivers in other vehicles also communicatively coupled with the server device to a reporting dashboard module . The dashboard module may visually indicate and or publish the performance score and other information to be viewed by the driver of vehicle see . Varying performance scores may be calculated based on the same driving objectives in a way that may make a fair comparison between drivers with differing driving profiles according to one or more embodiments.

The safety and efficiency module may create and implement a driver performance program in the form of a game and or a non punitive yet challenging competition among drivers of a plurality of vehicles to incentivize and improve overall driver safety and efficiency. It may according to one or more embodiments incorporate components of game theory that may use one or more mathematical models of devising an optimum strategy to a given driving situation and or driving behavior wherein the driver of vehicle may have the choice of limited and fixed options e.g. threshold limit and or driver objective data . The safety and efficiency module may store and implement algorithms based on mathematics statistics economics and or psychology to improve driver safety and efficiency. It will be appreciated that it may also perform analysis of strategies for dealing with competitive situations wherein the outcome of a driver s action may depend critically on the actions of other drivers according to one or more embodiments.

According to other embodiments the telemetry data may comprise but may not be limited to a position of vehicle a velocity of vehicle a direction of vehicle an acceleration of vehicle a deceleration of vehicle and or an engine ignition status of vehicle see . Comparing the telemetry data with the driver objective data may further comprise an algorithm that may consider several key performance indicators associated with a behavior trait of the driver of vehicle and may comprise but may not be limited to a limit data a route plan data an engine idling duration data a maximum rate of acceleration of the vehicle data and or a maximum rate of deceleration of the vehicle data according to one or more embodiments see .

According to another embodiment the route plan data may be associable with a predetermined route plan within the particular geospatial location surrounding the present location of the vehicle as determined through the mapping data source having all route plans in the geospatial vicinity such that the actual driving behavior data is compared with the route plan at the particular geospatial location to determine whether the variance is beyond the threshold limit . According to an illustrative example if the driver of vehicle varies from a desirable predetermined and or given route plan his performance score would reflect the variance with the threshold limit when compared with the desirable driver objective data applicable to route plans Likewise an engine idling duration data may be used to calculate the amount of time an engine of the vehicle is idle in the geospatial vicinity surrounding the present location of the vehicle such that the actual driving behavior data is compared with the amount of time the engine of the vehicle is idle to determine whether the variance is beyond the threshold limit . According to an illustrative example if the driver of vehicle varies from a desirable predetermined and or given engine idling time his performance score would reflect the variance with the threshold limit when compared with the desirable driver objective data applicable to engine idling duration.

According to one or more embodiments a maximum rate of acceleration of the vehicle data may be used to measure the rates of acceleration of the vehicle in the geospatial vicinity surrounding the present location of the vehicle such that the actual driving behavior data is compared with the maximum rate of acceleration of the vehicle to determine whether the variance is beyond the threshold limit . Similarly a maximum rate of deceleration of the vehicle data may be used to measure the rates of deceleration of the vehicle in the geospatial vicinity surrounding the present location of the vehicle such that the actual driving behavior data is compared with the maximum rate of deceleration of the vehicle to determine whether the variance is beyond the threshold limit . According to both embodiments if the driver of vehicle varies from a desirable predetermined and or given maximum rate of acceleration and or deceleration his performance score would reflect the variance with the threshold limit when compared with the desirable driver objective data applicable to maximum rate of acceleration and or deceleration of vehicle . According to an illustrative example the number of minutes that the acceleration exceeds the threshold limit may also be calculated and compared to the total driving minutes for the period. This ratio may be used to compute the driver s performance score according to one or more embodiments.

Vehicle according to one or more embodiments may be a part of a fleet of vehicles and may refer to all forms of transportation including cars motorcycles planes trucks heavy equipment jet skis and all other modes of commercial and or recreational transportation. The party that may predetermine the driver objective data and or may structure a driver performance program e.g. using game theory may be a company that provides GPS devices GPS vehicle tracking services OEM telematics e.g. OnStar and or fleet management services. The company may also provide fleet tracking and mobile asset management services. It may also be a sub prime vehicle finance and or asset tracking company a financial institution an automobile dealership a specialty finance company a dealership finance company a bank a credit union or a private financier in addition to any entity or organization according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

According to an illustrative example the performance score associable with the driver of the vehicle may be compared to another performance score associable with a driver of another vehicle see . The performance score may be based on at least one driver objective data measured over a predetermined period of time. A master score e.g. a master performance score may be assigned to a team of multiple drivers according to one or more exemplary embodiments see .

According to one or more exemplary embodiments a performance score indicative of the safety rating and or the efficiency rating associable with the driver and based on the driver objective data may be generated. It will be appreciated that according to one embodiment the performance score indicative of the safety rating and or the efficiency rating associable with the driver may be further compared to a plurality of performance scores indicative of another safety rating and another efficiency rating associable with a plurality of drivers see . The method according to one embodiment may involve ranking the plurality of drivers based on a comparison of the performance scores associable with the plurality of drivers.

According to an illustrative example a method for improving commercial driver safety and efficiency may involve using individual and team competition based on actual driver behavior. According to one embodiment the method may be used for improving the safety and efficiency of drivers in commercial vehicle fleets. Each driver may have a GPS tracking module installed in his her vehicle. The GPS module may transmit vehicle telemetry e.g. telemetry data back to a central server e.g. server device . According to one or more embodiments vehicle telemetry may include but may not be limited to position velocity direction acceleration and or engine on off status of vehicle . The server device may contain information on driver objectives e.g. driver objective data . These objectives according to one or more embodiments may include but may not be limited to posted speed limits route plans engine idling durations maximum rate of vehicle acceleration and or deceleration days hours for approved vehicle use etc.

According to one or more exemplary embodiments each driver may have an average ratio of minutes spent driving at or below the posted speed limit e.g. limit date of to the total number of minutes spent driving. The ratio for each objective may be converted to numerical scores e.g. see for each driver. Each driver may then be given an aggregate score resulting from a combination of individual objective scores according to one embodiment. According to another embodiment each driver may be assigned to a team of drivers e.g. see . Each team may have a score that may be a combination of individual driver scores. According to one or more embodiments each team may participate in a multi week scoring competitions. Winning teams may be calculated at intervals throughout the competition season. The final interval of seasons may be a championship competition between season leading teams. A new season according to one embodiment may begin after completion of the final interval with all scores reset to zero.

According to an illustrative example a 12 week season may run sequentially throughout the year. The teams may be ranked at the end of each week and winners may be calculated. Week according to one embodiment may be the Superbowl of Driving Week. Top teams from the regular season may be eligible to compete in the final week of competition for the grand champion award. According to other embodiments all individual and team scores would be reset to zero and a new competition reason would begin.

It will be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments central servers e.g. server device may share live and historical scoring information to drivers in a variety of matters including but not limited to web based applications mobile applications e.g. see periodic emails and or periodic SMS messages. This may allow all drivers to access current scoring and ranking information for all teams and individuals in the competition. In one or more exemplary embodiments commercial fleet managers may have the opinion of establishing an incentive plan based on driver and or team performance in the competition. It will be appreciated that the combination of inherent driver competitiveness and optional incentive programs may cause drivers to improve their driving performance with respect to the objectives e.g. driver objective data established by the fleet manager according to one or more embodiments.

According to other embodiments driver behavior may be positively impacted by providing trend information directly to the driver in a constructive fashion. This method may eliminate management in the review mirror. It will be appreciated that according to one or more exemplary embodiments the driver performance program may work as a contest and or a game with drivers competing as teams as well as for individual incentives. Drivers according to one embodiment may have a view into and or access to summary and or trend information of their overall performance e.g. see . Drivers may be able to drill down into the specific aspects of their driving behavior and or performance such as speeding idle time and or aggressive driving e.g. a fast rate of acceleration and or a hard braking incident .

According to one or more illustrative embodiments direct summary feedback to the driver in a game and or contest format may incentivize coach and or influence the driver to improve his her driving safety and efficiency. The driver safety program may have a mobile application dashboard e.g. see . It may affect change at the driver level by implementing game and or contest aspects such as team competition individual recognitions e.g. most valuable driver pole position winner race winner etc. configurable seasons e.g. dates duration etc. the ability to see the performance of other teams and teammates and or collaboration and or communication between various team members.

According to other exemplary embodiments driver performance may be scored and or monitored in the following areas including but not limited to engine idling time speeding hard braking incidents and hard acceleration incidents etc. According to one embodiment only trending data may be displayed in the dashboard module not specific incident data . The initial user interface screen may indicate driver performance as well as relative performance compared to other teams and other drivers e.g. see . Such data and information may be visible in near real time to all drivers. The goal of the method may be to tie merits and incentives and to create a relationship with the driver according to one or more embodiments. It will also be appreciated that such performance data and information may be shared on social media websites such as Facebook Twitter etc. according to one or more embodiments.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices e.g. the server device modules analyzers generators etc. described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry e.g. CMOS based logic circuitry firmware software and or any combination of hardware firmware and or software e.g. embodied in a machine readable medium . For example the various electrical structure and methods may be embodied using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. application specific integrated ASIC circuitry and or in Digital Signal Processor DSP circuitry . For example data transmission technologies geospatial positioning devices and devices other than ones employing GPS technology e.g. RFID RTLS OEM telematics location detection based on cell phone towers electromagnetic waves optical emissions infrared radar sonar radio Bluetooth etc. may be used to transmit telemetry data for the purposes of the invention described herein according to one or more exemplary embodiments.

Particularly several modules as illustrated in may be employed to execute the present embodiments. The telemetry data module the server module the driver objective data module the vehicle module the variance module the threshold module the performance score module the dashboard module the safety efficiency module and all other modules of may be enabled using software and or using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. application specific integrated ASIC circuitry such as a security circuit a recognition circuit a dynamic landmark circuit an ignition event circuit a store circuit a transform circuit an ICE circuit and other circuits.

In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a computer system and may be performed in any order e.g. including using means for achieving the various operations . Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

