---

title: Optical based tactile shear and normal load sensor
abstract: Various technologies described herein pertain to a tactile sensor that senses normal load and/or shear load. The tactile sensor includes a first layer and an optically transparent layer bonded together. At least a portion of the first layer is made of optically reflective material. The optically transparent layer is made of resilient material (e.g., clear silicone rubber). The tactile sensor includes light emitter/light detector pair(s), which respectively detect either normal load or shear load. Light emitter(s) emit light that traverses through the optically transparent layer and reflects off optically reflective material of the first layer, and light detector(s) detect and measure intensity of reflected light. When a normal load is applied, the optically transparent layer compresses, causing a change in reflected light intensity. When shear load is applied, a boundary between optically reflective material and optically absorptive material is laterally displaced, causing a change in reflected light intensity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09052775&OS=09052775&RS=09052775
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09052775
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120724
---
This invention was developed under contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Tactile sensors have conventionally been used for many applications examples of such applications include robotic hands and skins as well as biomedical sensing at human machine interfaces e.g. in prosthetic sockets . Various types of tactile sensors have conventionally been employed for these various applications. Examples of such tactile sensors include force sensitive resistors capacitive sensors optical sensors and MEMS sensors.

Many conventional tactile sensors can sense normal loads while being unable to sense shear loads. A normal load is a load perpendicular to a sensing surface. A shear load is a load parallel to the sensing surface. However for many applications it may be desirable to sense both normal loads and shear loads. For instance in a robotic hand shear load information can be used to enhance object manipulation and tactile exploration. Shear load information also has been seen to be important in monitoring prosthetic socket interface loads.

Some conventional approaches for multi axis sensing are based on use of traditional strain gauge based load cells which are oftentimes large and expensive. Other conventional approaches for multi axis sensing for tactile sensors use capacitive sensors MEMS sensors or optical sensors. For instance a capacitive sensor can infer shear information of overlapping conductors through a dielectric. A MEMS sensor can include small cantilevers with piezo resistive traces embedded in an elastomer these sensors oftentimes have relatively small load capacity and are commonly frail. Conventional optical shear sensors oftentimes include a mechanical separation between an emitter and a photodiode so that the two are displaced relative to one another by shear loads. However conventional optical shear sensors are unable to sense normal loads and typically are unable to differentiate between shear loads on differing axes.

Described herein are various technologies that pertain to a tactile sensor that senses normal load and or shear load. The tactile sensor includes a first layer and an optically transparent layer bonded together. At least a portion of the first layer is made of optically reflective material. The optically transparent layer is made of resilient material e.g. clear silicone rubber . The tactile sensor includes light emitter light detector pair s which respectively detect either normal load or shear load. Light emitter s emit light that traverses through the optically transparent layer and reflects off optically reflective material of the first layer and light detector s detect and measure intensity of reflected light. When a normal load is applied the optically transparent layer compresses causing a change in reflected light intensity. When shear load is applied a boundary between optically reflective material and optically absorptive material is laterally displaced causing a change in reflected light intensity.

According to various embodiments a tactile sensor can sense a normal load applied from an external source. The tactile sensor can include an optically reflective layer e.g. which can be part of a first layer bonded to an optically transparent layer. Further the tactile sensor can include a light emitter light detector pair. The light emitter can emit light that traverses through the optically transparent layer and reflects off of the optically reflective layer. Further the light detector can detect the reflected light and measure an intensity of such reflected light. The intensity of the reflected light can change due to compression of the optically transparent layer thus the normal load applied to a top surface of the optically reflective layer can cause the optically transparent layer to compress which leads to the change in the intensity of the reflected light.

In accordance with various embodiments a tactile sensor can sense a shear load applied from an external source. The tactile sensor can include a first layer that includes an optically reflective region an optically absorptive region and a boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region. Moreover the tactile sensor includes an optically transparent layer bonded to the first layer. The tactile sensor can also include a light emitter light detector pair positioned below the boundary. The light emitter can emit light that traverses through the optically transparent layer and reflects off the optically reflective region and is absorbed by the optically absorptive region. The light detector can detect the reflected light and measure an intensity of such reflected light. The intensity of the reflected light can change due to the boundary being laterally displaced relative to the light emitter light detector pair. Accordingly the shear load applied to a top surface of the first layer can cause the boundary to be laterally displaced which leads to the change in intensity of the reflected light.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to optical based tactile sensors that can sense normal and or shear loads are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects. Further it is to be understood that functionality that is described as being carried out by certain system components may be performed by multiple components. Similarly for instance a component may be configured to perform functionality that is described as being carried out by multiple components.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a cross sectional view of an exemplary tactile sensor that senses a normal load and a shear load as applied from an external source. The tactile sensor includes a first layer having a first top surface and a first bottom surface. The first layer is an opaque layer. The first layer includes an optically reflective region and an optically absorptive region . Further the first layer includes a boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region .

According to an example the first layer can be made of a resilient material. An example of such a resilient material is silicone rubber. Following this example where the first layer is made of silicone rubber white dye can be added to the silicon rubber in the optically reflective region of the first layer . Moreover black dye can be added to the silicone rubber in the optically absorptive region of the first layer . However it is contemplated that the first layer can be made of other types of resilient material other types of dyes pigments etc. can be utilized for the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region or the like. Further in accordance with other examples it is to be appreciated that the first layer need not be resilient.

The tactile sensor also includes an optically transparent layer having a second top surface and a second bottom surface. The second top surface of the optically transparent layer is bonded with the first bottom surface of the first layer . The optically transparent layer is made of a resilient material. An example of the resilient material is clear silicone rubber yet it is to be appreciated that other types of clear resilient material are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

The first layer and the optically transparent layer can be mechanically uniform throughout e.g. uniform material properties . Accordingly the tactile sensor can provide uniform load sensitivity across the first top surface of the first layer .

By way of illustration the first layer can have a thickness on the order of 1 mm and the optically transparent layer can have a thickness on the order of 1 mm. The thickness of the optically transparent layer can correspond to sensitivity to normal loads e.g. more sensitive when the optically transparent layer is thinner . However it is to be appreciated that differing thicknesses for the first layer and or the optically transparent layer are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Moreover the tactile sensor can include a plurality of light emitters and a plurality of light detectors. In particular the tactile sensor can include a plurality of light emitter light detector pairs referred to herein as emitter detector pairs . Many of the examples set forth herein describe a light emitter and a light detector in an emitter detector pair being included in the same sensor housing. It is contemplated however that these examples can be extended to a configuration where the light emitter and the light detector in an emitter detector pair are adjacent each other in separate housings.

According to various examples the light emitters described herein can be light emitting diodes LEDs . According to another example the light detectors set forth herein can be phototransistors. It is contemplated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing examples as any type of light emitter and or light detector is intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

For instance each emitter detector pair can be a photomicrosensor. A photomicrosensor can include both an infrared LED and a phototransistor included within a common package e.g. common sensor housing . By way of illustration the photomicrosensor can have a size of approximately 3.2 mm 1.7 mm 1.1 mm. Moreover the photomicrosensor can provide a wide angle detection field and can have a sensitivity that peaks at approximately 1 mm. Yet the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing illustration.

As shown in the tactile sensor can include a first emitter detector pair and a second emitter detector pair . The first emitter detector pair includes a first light emitter and a first light detector. The first light emitter and the first light detector of the first emitter detector pair are packaged within a first sensor housing. Moreover the second emitter detector pair includes a second light emitter and a second light detector. The second light emitter and the second light detector of the second emitter detector pair are packaged within a second sensor housing. Although not depicted it is contemplated that the tactile sensor can include more than two emitter detector pairs e.g. as shown in or below .

The optically reflective region of the first layer can be centered above the first emitter detector pair . Moreover a side of the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region of the first layer can be positioned above the second emitter detector pair . However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing orientations.

The first emitter detector pair can detect the normal load applied to the first top surface of the first layer . For instance the first light emitter of the first emitter detector pair can emit light that traverses through the optically transparent layer towards the first layer . The optically reflective region of the first layer can reflect the light from the first light emitter incident thereupon as reflected light from the first light emitter. The reflected light from the first light emitter can traverse through the optically transparent layer towards the second bottom surface of the optically transparent layer . Further the first light detector of the first emitter detector pair can detect the reflected light from the first light emitter and can measure a first intensity of the reflected light from the first light emitter.

According to an illustration the optically transparent layer can compress due to the normal load applied from the external source to the first top surface of the first layer . Following this illustration the first intensity detected by the first light emitter of the first emitter detector pair can change due to compression of the optically transparent layer since the optically reflective region can be moved closer to the first emitter detector pair when the optically transparent layer is compressed. Thus the first intensity can be indicative of the normal load applied to the first top surface of the first layer .

The second emitter detector pair can detect the shear load applied to the first top surface of the first layer . For instance the second light emitter of the second emitter detector pair can emit light that traverses through the optically transparent layer towards the first layer . The optically reflective region of the first layer can reflect the light from the second light emitter incident thereupon as reflected light from the second light emitter. The reflected light from the second light emitter can traverse through the optically transparent layer towards the second bottom surface of the optically transparent layer . Further the second light detector of the second emitter detector pair can detect the reflected light from the second light emitter and can measure a second intensity of the reflected light from the second light emitter.

As noted above normal or shear loads applied to the first top surface of the first layer can result in changes in reflected light detected by the light detectors. Accordingly a load e.g. normal and or shear can be detected at a location at which it is applied by measuring an electric signal outputted by the light detectors. For example the light detectors can output currents voltages or the like corresponding to the respective measured intensities of the reflected light.

A side of the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region can be laterally displaced relative to the second emitter detector pair e.g. the second light emitter and the second light detector from a position above the second emitter detector pair due to the shear load. Accordingly the second intensity detected by the second light detector of the second emitter detector pair can change due to lateral displacement of the side of the boundary . Thus the second intensity can be indicative of the shear load applied to the first top surface of the first layer .

The tactile sensor can further include a circuit board . According to an example the circuit board can be a flexible circuit board yet it is contemplated that other types of circuit boards are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims. The first sensor housing of the first emitter detector pair and the second sensor housing of the second emitter detector pair can each be positioned on the circuit board as well as any additional sensor housing s for other emitter detector pair s . Various other component s for controlling analyzing signals from etc. the emitter detector pairs of the tactile sensor can also be positioned on and or integrated in the circuit board .

Further the tactile sensor can include an epoxy layer having a top surface and a bottom surface. The top surface of the epoxy layer can be bonded to the bottom surface of the optically transparent layer . For example the epoxy layer can be bonded to the optically transparent layer with an adhesive or the like.

By way of example the first emitter detector pair and the second emitter detector pair as well as any additional emitter detector pair s can be arranged below the second bottom surface of the optically transparent layer . Following this example the epoxy layer can be cast up to a height of the first sensor housing and the second sensor housing as well as any additional sensor housings of the tactile sensor . Thus the epoxy layer can provide a flat smooth surface up to top surfaces of the first sensor housing and the second sensor housing. Accordingly the optically transparent layer can be built upon such smooth surface thereby providing a uniform thickness of the optically transparent material e.g. silicon rubber across such surface. The epoxy layer for instance can be a rigid material adjacent to the first sensor housing and the second sensor housing so that rigid material around the sensors comes to the top surfaces of the first sensor housing and the second sensor housing. It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the foregoing example.

Turning to illustrated is a top view of the tactile sensor . As illustrated the tactile sensor includes the first emitter detector pair and the second emitter detector pair . The first emitter detector pair includes a first light emitter and a first light detector and the second emitter detector pair includes a second light emitter and a second light detector . Moreover the tactile sensor includes a third emitter detector pair which can be substantially similar to the first emitter detector pair and or the second emitter detector pair . The third emitter detector pair includes a third light emitter and a third light detector .

Moreover shows a top view of the boundary that separates the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region . As depicted the boundary has a square shape. According to an illustration a length of a side of the square boundary can be on the order of 6 mm yet it is to be appreciated that other dimensions are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims. In accordance with yet another example the boundary can have a rectangular shape. Yet it is further contemplated that other shapes for the boundary are intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

As noted above a side e.g. a first side of the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region of the first layer can be positioned above the second emitter detector pair . Further a second side of the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region of the first layer can be positioned above the third emitter detector pair . The first side of the boundary positioned above the second emitter detector pair and the second side of the boundary positioned above the third emitter detector pair can be adjacent and non opposing.

Similar to the second emitter detector pair the third emitter detector pair can detect the shear load applied to the first top surface of the first layer . The third light emitter of the third emitter detector pair can emit light that traverses through the optically transparent layer towards the first layer . The optically reflective region of the first layer can reflect the light from the third light emitter incident thereupon as reflected light from the third light emitter . The reflected light from the third light emitter can traverse through the optically transparent layer towards the second bottom surface of the optically transparent layer . The third light detector of the third emitter detector pair can detect the reflected light from the third light emitter . Moreover the third light detector can measure a third intensity of the reflected light from the third light emitter .

When a shear load is applied to the top surface of the first layer the second side of the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region can be laterally displaced relative to the third emitter detector pair e.g. third light emitter and the third light detector from the position above the third emitter detector pair . Hence the third intensity detected by the third light detector of the reflected light from the third light emitter can change due to lateral displacement of the second side of the boundary . The third intensity can be indicative of the shear load applied to the top surface of the first layer . According to an example the second emitter detector pair can detect the shear load in a first direction and the third emitter detector pair can detect the shear load in a second direction where the first direction and the second direction can be orthogonal.

The tactile sensor can be a three axis optical sensor that can provide both normal and shear measurements. The tactile sensor can include small inexpensive surface mounted integrated circuits with multiple layers e.g. of silicon rubber thereupon. According to various examples the tactile sensor can be suited for applications where a compliant material covers a rigid body. Examples of such applications include robot skins or prosthetic sockets. Yet it is contemplated that the tactile sensor can be utilized for substantially any other application.

Turning to illustrated are cross sectional views of a portion of the tactile sensor under differing normal loading conditions. compare operation of the tactile sensor when a normal load is and is not applied to a top surface of the optically reflective region e.g. of the first layer above the first emitter detector pair . It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to this example. Moreover it is contemplated that the example shown in can be extended to a tactile sensor that includes an emitter detector pair for detecting normal loads applied to such tactile sensor while lacking emitter detector pair s for detecting shear loads applied to such sensor.

Now referring to illustrated is a scenario where a normal load is applied to the top surface of the optically reflective region e.g. the first layer above the first emitter detector pair . When the normal load is applied to the top surface of the optically reflective region the optically transparent layer can be compressed. Thus the reflective material of the optically reflective region is moved closer to the light emitter and the light detector which causes the light detector to detect an increase in reflective light from the light emitter . Thus when comparing light intensity at the light detector it is shown that intensity increases when the optically transparent layer is compressed responsive to the normal load applied to the top surface of the optically reflective region .

Accordingly the tactile sensor operates responsive to normal loads such as the normal load through compression of the height of the optically transparent layer and possibly the first layer . Thus the reflective surface of the optically reflective region can move closer to the light emitter thereby increasing the intensity of light detected at the light detector . Further reflected light intensity is used to detect proximity of the reflective material e.g. the optically reflective region .

Turning to illustrated are cross sectional views of another exemplary portion of the tactile sensor under various shear loading conditions. compare operation of the tactile sensor when a shear load is applied to the top surface of the first layer in a first direction and in a second direction that is opposite the first direction. It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the depicted example shown in . Further it is contemplated that the example shown in can be extended to a tactile sensor that includes emitter detector pair s for detecting shear loads applied to such tactile sensor while lacking emitter detector pair s for detecting normal loads applied to such sensor.

The portion of the tactile sensor illustrated in includes a portion of the first layer . The first layer includes the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region separated by the boundary . Moreover the portion of the tactile sensor depicted in includes a portion of the optically transparent layer . Further the portion of the tactile sensor shown in includes the second emitter detector pair which includes the second light emitter and the second light detector . Although not shown it is to be appreciated that the example shown in can be applicable to the third emitter detector pair which further includes the third light emitter and the third light detector .

Referring to a shear load is applied to the top surface of the first layer . The shear load causes the first layer to shift in a leftwards direction. Thus the shear load causes the boundary to be laterally displaced relative to the second light emitter and the second light detector . More particularly such lateral displacement increases a ratio of absorptive to reflective material between the second light emitter and the second light detector . Thus light emitted by the second light emitter is absorbed by the optically absorptive region leading to light not being reflected back through the optically transparent layer to the second light detector .

Now turning to a disparate shear load is applied to the top surface of the first layer . The shear load causes the first layer to shift in a rightwards direction. Thus the shear load causes the boundary to be laterally displaced relative to the second light emitter and the second light detector . More particularly the shear load causes a ratio of absorptive to reflective material between the second light emitter and the second light detector to be decreased. Hence light emitted by the second light emitter is reflected by the optically reflective region leading to an increased intensity of light that traverses back through the optically transparent layer and is detected by the second light detector .

Accordingly shear loads can be sensed by adding absorptive regions to the reflective layer. Shear loads can move the absorptive portion of the first layer relative to the second light emitter thereby changing an intensity of the reflected light received at the second light detector . Thus an applied shear load can change the ratio of absorptive to reflective material between the second light emitter and the second light detector . The changes in the amount of light reflected back to the light detector can accordingly be determined.

With reference to illustrated is a cross sectional view of another exemplary tactile sensor . The tactile sensor includes the first layer the optically transparent layer and the circuit board . The first layer can further include the optically reflective region the optically absorptive region and the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region . Moreover the tactile sensor can include the first emitter detector pair and the second emitter detector pair as well as the third emitter detector pair .

The first sensor housing of the first emitter detector pair and the second sensor housing of the second emitter detector pair as well as other sensor housing s can be positioned upon the circuit board . In contrast to the tactile sensor of where the sensor housings are arranged below the bottom surface of the optically transparent layer in an epoxy layer the tactile sensor of can lack such epoxy layer. Rather the first and second sensor housings can be arranged within the optically transparent layer . Moreover other tactile sensors set forth herein as including an epoxy layer can similarly lack such epoxy layer in various embodiments. It is to be appreciated however that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Turning to illustrated is a cross sectional view of an exemplary tactile sensor that senses normal load as applied from an external source. The tactile sensor includes an optically reflective layer having a first top surface and a first bottom surface. The optically reflective layer can be substantially similar to the optically reflective region of the first layer as described above. Further the tactile sensor need not include optically absorptive material.

The tactile sensor further includes the optically transparent layer having the second top surface and the second bottom surface. The second top surface of the optically transparent layer is bonded with the first bottom surface of the optically reflective layer . The tactile sensor further includes the first emitter detector pair . The tactile sensor can also include the circuit board and the epoxy layer yet the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

As compared to the tactile sensor of the tactile sensor of includes an emitter detector pair e.g. the first emitter detector pair used to sense a normal load applied to the first top surface of the optically reflective layer . Further the tactile sensor can lack emitter detector pair s for detecting a shear load applied to the first top surface of the optically reflective layer .

Now referring to illustrated is a top view of the tactile sensor . As shown the tactile sensor includes the first emitter detector pair . The first emitter detector pair further comprises the first light emitter and the first light detector .

With reference to illustrated is a top view of another exemplary tactile sensor that senses a shear load as applied from an external source. The tactile sensor includes the first layer having the first top surface and the first bottom surface. The first layer includes the optically reflective region the optically absorptive region and the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region . The tactile sensor further comprises the optically transparent layer although not shown .

As depicted the tactile sensor includes the second emitter detector pair and the third emitter detector pair . The second emitter detector pair includes the second light emitter and the second light detector . The third emitter detector pair includes the third light emitter and the third light detector .

The tactile sensor can detect a shear load applied to a top surface of the first layer . In contrast to the tactile sensor of the tactile sensor lacks emitter detector pair s for detecting a normal load applied to the top surface of the first layer .

Now referring to illustrated is a top view of another exemplary tactile sensor that includes five emitter detector pairs for detecting normal and shear loads as applied to a top surface of the first layer from an external source. Again the first layer has the first top surface and the first bottom surface and includes the optically reflective region the optically absorptive region and the boundary there between. Moreover the tactile sensor includes the first emitter detector pair e.g. including the first light emitter and the first light detector utilized to sense the normal load applied to the top surface of the first layer .

The tactile sensor also includes four emitter detector pairs for detecting shear loads as applied to the top surface of the first layer . More particularly the emitter detector pair and an emitter detector pair e.g. including a light emitter and a light detector can be utilized for detecting shear load in a first direction. Further the emitter detector pair and an emitter detector pair e.g. including a light emitter and a light detector can be utilized for detecting shear load in a second direction which is orthogonal to the first direction. Accordingly the tactile sensor is a three axis sensor that includes five emitter detector pairs one of the emitter detector pairs detects normal loads two of the emitter detector pairs detect shear in one direction and two of the emitter detector pairs detect shear in an orthogonal direction.

With reference to illustrated is a top view of another exemplary tactile sensor that includes a plurality of taxels. A taxel is a tactile pixel. A taxel provides information about a plurality of degrees of freedom. Because each emitter detector pair provides information about a single degree of freedom a taxel can provide three axes of information. Accordingly each taxel of the tactile sensor can include three emitter detector pairs for providing such information.

For instance a taxel can include the first emitter detector pair the second emitter detector pair and the third emitter detector pair . Moreover the taxel can include the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region of the first layer as well as the optically reflective region of the first layer . According to an example the taxel can include the first light emitter the second light emitter the third light emitter the first light detector the second light detector the third light detector the optically reflective region and the boundary between the optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region . A second taxel in the tactile sensor can include a fourth light emitter a fifth light emitter a sixth light emitter a fourth light detector a fifth light detector a sixth light detector a second optically reflective region and a second boundary between the second optically reflective region and the optically absorptive region . Moreover the tactile sensor can include more taxels substantially similar to the above noted first and second taxels. As depicted the exemplary tactile sensor includes nine taxels. It is to be appreciated however that a tactile sensor with substantially any number of taxels is intended to fall within the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Deduction of a direction and magnitude of applied loads can be determined if directional sensitivities of the three axes are independent. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited.

By way of other examples it is contemplated that more than three emitter detector pairs can be included in each taxel e.g. as set forth in . According to another example a taxel can include less than three emitter detector pairs e.g. the taxel can provide less than three axes of information .

Further as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something. 

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

