---

title: Pharmaceutical/life science technology evaluation and scoring
abstract: A method for evaluating and/or scoring pharmaceutical/life science technology is provided. The method includes importing data of a publication; transforming the data into a structured schema; ingesting the structured schema to determine a context of the data and draw associations between the data and a plurality of profiles; and generating a score based on the associations between the raw data and the profiles. The method may also include generating meta-data based on the determined context of the data and/or one or more quantitative metrics having a temporal component based on the ingested data. Related apparatus, systems, techniques and articles are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08725552&OS=08725552&RS=08725552
owner: DR/Decision Resources, LLC
number: 08725552
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121128
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 564 020 filed on Nov. 28 2011 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to data analysis and in particular to assembling aggregating and interpreting multiple complex data sources to generate strategic intelligence and business solutions in different topics including for example biologic genetic biopharmaceutical and medical topics.

Pharmaceutical innovation relies on a continuum of scientific and medical information that aims to address the cause treat the symptoms and improve the outcome of diseases. The pharmaceutical industry currently relies on the capacity of the involved stakeholders to evaluate an opportunity raise the necessary capital and develop a potential therapy. Assets are commonly purchased and sold at various stages of their life cycle. This has resulted in a diverse marketplace driven by transactions at all stages of drug development from pre clinical and discovery through phase III clinical trials.

Transaction decision making is made based on a number of criteria that aim to maximize the commercial value and future potential of an asset. This is a challenging process limited by two primary factors 1 overwhelming depth breadth and complexity of scientific information and 2 a scarcity of accurate and relevant market data.

Thus there is a need to provide methods and systems for assembling aggregating and interpreting multiple complex data sources to generate strategic intelligence and business solutions in different topics.

In accordance with the present subject matter a method for evaluating and or scoring a technology is provided. The method may include importing data of a publication transforming the data into a structured schema ingesting the structured schema to determine a context of the data and draw associations between the data and a plurality of profiles and generating a score based on the associations between the raw data and the profiles.

In some embodiments the method may also include generating meta data based on the determined context of the data and or generating one or more quantitative metrics having a temporal component based on the ingested data.

In some embodiments of the present subject matter the method may include assigning a weight to at least one of the profiles and may also include adjusting the weight.

In some embodiments the method may also include measuring a confidence in at least one of the associations by calculating a number of times the at least one of the associations has been associated with previous data. This may further include elevating a weighting of the at least one of the associations when the at least one of the associations has been associated with previous data.

In some embodiments of the present subject matter the method includes checking the data against a plurality of predefined key words.

Articles of manufacture are also described that comprise computer executable instructions permanently stored on non transitory computer readable media which when executed by a computer causes the computer to perform operations herein. Similarly computer systems are also described that may include a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may temporarily or permanently store one or more programs that cause the processor to perform one or more of the operations described herein. In addition operations specified by methods can be implemented by one or more data processors either within a single computing system or distributed among two or more computing systems.

The subject matter described herein provides many advantages. For example by assembling aggregating and interpreting multiple complex data sources strategic intelligence and business solutions in different topics can be provided. By generating Scores e.g. ranking that assess the value and multi attribute components of various entities such as for example drugs e.g. molecules companies genes people diseases and research topics these quantitative measures may be leveraged for example to aid in decision making on investment and or identify trends for users. The provided systems and methods may be leveraged in a multitude of contexts factorially created by the array of entities being defined. For example the present subject matter may be used to ask questions of people in a disease drugs and genes research topics and companies etc. This creates value for users in all realms including for example life science from basic to clinical science as well as within the business context of biopharmaceuticals life science tools diagnostics and patient care.

The details of one or more variations of the subject matter described herein are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the subject matter described herein will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Interfacing with the model is a controller e.g. implemented on a server which may include Service Bus Scoring Engine and Search Index Data Store . Service Bus is in communication with Score Engine and Search Index Data Store and may be configured to handle multiple data connectors e.g. for ingest and search work flows.

The controller also interfaces with a user interface e.g. via a client to display data to the user on request. As can be seen the users interface also communicates with Service Bus of the controller. In some embodiments the user interface can communicate with the controller over the internet or other services using for example HTTP REST XML SOAP or any combination of protocols and languages. This may be done for example by passing objects between the client and the server to handle search queries and chart requests. The user interface may include one or more user views such as views and as shown and may be configured to provide graphical illustration s of data and search functionality.

In some embodiments the architecture is configured to be data scalable and capable of supporting multiple products. This may be achieved by configuring the architecture to be data agnostic by using connectors to enable structured and unstructured data to build on existing system. The architecture may also be configured to provide workflow flexibility to enable database interaction. For example in some embodiments the scoring workflow can be carried out in parallel or through query functions. This way a new product can be provided by providing a new user interface and a new query workflow and the architecture is thus scalable to multiple products.

The present subject matter may be utilized in many different fields and topics. For example decisions regarding drug development are complex and rely on multiple variables and factors. Successful commercial biopharmaceutical development may require patent protection in order to justify the capital risk associated with development. The patent application database therefore serves as a base layer for drugs in development. However underlying any patent application is the basic medical science which is the main driver of innovation. The decision to target a particular mechanism of action for a disease may be based on the scientific literature and publically available data. Many of the underlying scientific trends precede novel patentable material if not overtly then through inference. Transactions are ultimately influenced by the current perception of the scientific evidence the interpretation of scientific trends by scientists and business partners deal factors such as the interaction with the commercial entity and market potential.

At the raw data are transformed by Ingest Engine for ingest to a schema by taking the raw data and converting it from its original format into a structure that can be interpreted by a downstream logic. A schema is a generalized architecture of document contents which enables the system to break a larger piece of text into subsections. In some embodiments the schema is utilized by targeted extraction of ontologies and selective targeting of queries. For example breaking the text of a press release into subsections in order to ask specific questions of the first paragraph as opposed to the second. The value of this approach in concert with ontologic and natural language driven queries is that it applies domain specific knowledge of the construction of the language within these documents to enable accurate extraction of information that is very difficult if not impossible to accomplish simply by keyword searching.

One component of the Innovation system is the use of natural language and controlled vocabulary phrases used to identify key concepts in scientific medical clinical and business literature. In some embodiments these phrases are grouped by key concepts to identify stage of development of pharmaceutical assets. This detection of experimental concepts and stages of development uses expert knowledge of drug development and life science research combined with text extraction and mapping. This approach is unique because the detection of key natural language concepts is designed to detect concepts specifically important to the value of a drug asset. This differs principally from typical natural language approaches which look for common terms and require no expert know how in fields of life science and or biopharma.

Using text mining and natural language processing Ingest Engine mines and processes the text to add meta data to incoming data streams i.e. schemas that apply a context and or describe what it s about. Ingest Engine also ingest the instance of the schema transform or parse each document with Entity Extraction into fields. In some embodiments this is done using XML workflows connectors.

Ingest Engine also performs an association process which is important to determining and automating the association of e.g. drugs diseases genes companies people and research topics. This process today is largely manual or wrought with false positives and negatives when done through keyword association. In some embodiments Ingest Engine applies weighting to specific sources of association e.g. mentions in a press release outweigh mentions in a PubMed document normalizes to commonly mentioned entities e.g. cancer is often mentioned with many things but may only be truly associated with a subset and adds a contextual basis e.g. a given person may only be associated with a drug in a basic animal testing sense as opposed to a financing and fundraising sense . This context is important to defining appropriate associations. In some embodiments this process is utilized to automate the process of profile building for e.g. a given drug or company in the Innovation. Engine. In some embodiments data transformation and association is run daily. In some embodiments this is run when new data is imported.

In some embodiments one or more of the following features may be extracted for each type of publication.

For PubMed Metadata from the publication record Journal name Title Abstract Listed Keywords All author s names Authors order Specifically first 2 author and last three authors Institution referenced Department Institution commercial entity City Pubmed ID Publication Date Day Month Year EPUB Date DOI NME Calculated fields Gene protein name in title Gene protein name in abstract Disease in title Disease in abstract Molecule name in abstract Molecule name in Title Tissue referenced in abstract Tissue Referenced Title Presence or absence of specific key words in abstract Presence or absence of Relay Key Words in title Alchemy identified terms and State.

For conference abstracts Conference name Gene protein name in title Gene protein name in abstract Disease in title Disease in abstract Molecule name in abstract Molecule name in Title Tissue referenced in abstract Tissue Referenced Title Presence or absence of Relay key words in abstract Presence or absence of Relay Key Words in title Listed Keywords Alchemy Identified terms All author s names Authors order Specifically first 2 author and last three authors Institution referenced Department institution commercial entity City State 

For Intellectual Property Patent Number Date of issuance Inventors names Inventor affiliation Inventor location Assignee Assignee location Filing date PCT tiling date application number PCT number PCT PUB date PCT PUB no. Foreign application countries Foreign application dates Patents cited Numbers Dates Inventors Foreign patents cited Number Country Dates Examiner Attorney agent or firm Number of claims Gene protein name in title Gene protein name in abstract Disease in title Disease in abstract Molecule name in abstract Molecule name in Title Tissue referenced in abstract Tissue Referenced Title Presence or absence of specific keywords in abstract Presence or absence of specific keywords in title Listed Keywords Alchemy Identified terms in title Alchemy Identified terms in the Abstract Chemical Nomenclature Term in Title Chemical nomenclature term in Abstract Gene protein name in Claims Number of times Number of claims present Gene protein name in description Disease in claims Number of times Number of claims present Disease in Description Molecule name in claims Number of times Number of claims present Molecule name in Description Tissue referenced in Claims Number of times Number of claims present Tissue Referenced Description Presence or absence of Relay key words in claims Number of times Number of claims present Presence or absence of specific keywords in Description Alchemy Identified terms in Claims Alchemy Identified terms in the Description Chemical Nomenclature Term in Claims Chemical nomenclature term in Description 

For Chemistry and Physical Properties Molecular weight LogD LogP Number of stereogenic centers Number of heteroatoms Number of hydrogen bond donors Number of hydrogen bond acceptors Aqueous solubility mg mL at different pH s Number of steps in synthesis Crystallinity Polymorphism Melting point Stability solid state thermal hydrolytic photo stereoisomeric Salt forms.

For Existing Drug Candidates Imported list Target mechanism Chemical name Marketing name Development name Associated Commercial entity.

For Orange Book Active Ingredient Dosage Form Route Concentration Proprietary name Commercial applicant Therapeutic equivalence application number Approval date Patent expiration Drug substance claim Drug product claim.

For Clinical Trial Information Gene protein name in title Gene protein name in purpose Disease in title Disease in purpose Molecule name in purpose Molecule name in Title Tissue referenced in Purpose Tissue Referenced Title Presence or absence of Relay keywords in Purpose Presence or absence of Relay Keywords in title Listed MESH terms Alchemy Identified terms in title Alchemy Identified terms in the Purpose Chemical Nomenclature Term in Title Chemical nomenclature term in Purpose CTG identifier Sponsor First received Last updated Condition Intervention Phase Study Type Study design Primary outcomes Secondary outcomes Estimated enrollment Start Date Estimated completion date Number of arms Inclusion criteria Exclusion criteria Locations Investigators Study sponsor Publications Author Journal Date Title Pubmed ID.

For NIH Grant Database Primary investigator PI email Title Awardee organization Project number City State Study Section Project start date Project end date Administering institution Total funding Year Funding per year Project terms Pub med ID of associated publications Associated clinical trial identifier Associated patent number Gene protein name in title Gene protein name in abstract Gene protein name in Keyword list Disease in title Disease in abstract Disease in Keyword list Molecule name in abstract Molecule name in Title Molecule name in Keyword list Tissue referenced in abstract Tissue Referenced Title Tissue referenced in keyword list Presence or absence of specific key words in abstract Presence or absence of specific Key Words in title Presence or absence of specific keywords in keyword list Alchemy Identified terms in title Alchemy identified terms in abstract.

In some embodiments of the present subject matter structured database profiles are generated and maintained within the Innovation Engine. For example attributes associated with biopharmaceutical assets may be assigned to different categories. In some embodiments the categories or profiles may include one or more of 

Decisions regarding asset development may take into account one or more of these factors. In some embodiments as new information enters the system it is automatically incorporated within their profiles.

As an example is a graphical illustration showing the Data Transformation and Association . As shown Publication A is imported from a source e.g. as raw data . Publication A includes various information including Gene X Investigator A Disease Y Institution Z and Compound D . By performing the data transformation and association process discussed above Ingest Engine generates Publication A Associated Data which includes Gene X Profile Investigator A Profile Disease Y Profile Institution Z Profile and Compound D Profile . In some embodiments ingest Engine may be configured to query this data to assess the quality of association. Examples of such queries include Has this gene been previously associated with this disease Has this investigator been previously associated with this disease Has this institution been previously associated with this disease and Has this compound been previously associated with this disease .

in some embodiments the innovation Engine maintains a dynamic database of experiments and milestones e.g. as a drug e.g. molecule continues its iterative process of development to track its progress. By anticipating the logical progression of drug development the Innovation Engine provides a framework for which to benchmark commercial drug development. In addition by following scientific trends through grants issued publications patents and people the nuance of discovery can be projected and trends can be identified at early stages. To this end at Scoring Engine may be configured to specifically identify and predict scientific trends by assigning a Score to for example each molecule key opinion leader commercial entity and or disease pathway. In some embodiments the Score may be a numerical value representing the likelihood that the market will favor assets associated with an entity.

Tier 4 includes variable calculation and counting. This may include counting the context specific occurrence of a variable e.g. Entity Raw Count Entity Count Norm Entity 2 2 and the number of other variables 500 Other Variables . For example a drug has been mentioned 3 times with positive news about clinical trial results in breast cancer. This generates a count which can be manipulated by e.g. normalization or binary filter to produce additional variables. These variables can be normalized to an aspect of the entities mentioned e.g. to the company drug disease or by phase.

Tier 3 includes generating trend data such as e.g. Publication Rate Grant Rate Development Stage and 40 Other Variables . For example the 3 mentions of positive data in clinical trials referenced above represent 5 of all positive mentions of clinical trial data in breast cancer or the growth in mentions over the last 3 years is the third highest of all breast cancer drugs.

Tier 2 includes sequence variables that have a temporal component. For example by assembling the variables of Tiers 4 and 3 for a given drug and analyze them on a temporal basis both in terms of how they compare to other breast cancer drugs but also how the different variables relate to each other temporally. This may include weighting through machine learning against other drugs with positive outcomes and creating additional variables related to sequence of events.

Tier 1 includes variables such as e.g. Investigator Therapeutic Advancement and Scientific Evidence . These variables roll up to become primary variables for evaluation of Scoring e.g. Compound Score of a given therapeutic. In some embodiments this score is calculated daily and or recalculates as time advances and as new information enters the system.

In some embodiments one or more of the following variables may be used The following are the specific variables considered by Scoring Engine 

In some embodiments the Score is generated to correspond to a relative value to a drug asset based on its likelihood of a transactional event in the following twelve months. This may be important for three main reasons 1 it provides a measurable outcome 2 it solves the issue of market value and 3 it gives a relative value metric to assets.

As shown in at machine learning may be applied to determine weighting of score e.g. when the attributes and subvariables of a given drug have been calculated and these attributes are then compared quantitatively to the attributes of drugs that historically have achieved success through value creation events. For example when analyzing phase 2 diabetes drugs all the drugs that have either been licensed achieved clinical success advanced phase or received additional funding can be analyzed. Regression may be applied to the variables and attributes of these historical drugs to determine which ones have the highest influence on outcome. Based on these calculations the Innovation Engine assigns the variables and attributes with the highest influence with more weight in calculating new Scores.

While the use of the Innovation Engine in biopharma drug development business development has been provided as an example uses in other areas such as medical devices chemical physical and energy technology development are also possible. For example additional data sources may be imported to develop separate products e.g. with different weightings sub Scores and Compound Scores etc. for different vertical markets and the approach of the present subject matter may be applicable in those settings as well.

As discussed above the Innovation Engine may include a data transformation step involving drawing associations between data sources within the profiles e.g. Molecule Compound Gene Mechanism Disease Personnel University Commercial Entity and Intellectual Property as discussed above . For example once a publication or patent becomes associated with a profile all associated data becomes a part of that profile. In some embodiments one or more associative rules are run upon database updates daily.

In one example publication title and abstract are searched for the presence of the gene disease molecule investigator institution or its synonym s . If an association is found the Pubmed ID data and record are added to the gene mechanism profile.

The Innovation Engine may also include measuring the confidence in an association through triangulation of existing profiles once the association is drawn. For example if an investigator recorded from a publications author list has been previously associated with the disease gene and or molecule found in that same publication the publication receives a higher confidence or quality score. In some embodiments associations of higher confidence receive elevated weighting when considering profile ranking.

To determine the relevant development information associated with a given molecule or disease mechanism in an automated fashion in some embodiments the Innovation Engine utilizes a list of keywords which draw further inference about the meaning of an imported piece of data. For example if a publication contains gene X molecule Y and the word inhibit inhibition and or inhibitor that publication is recorded as a publication that my describe inhibition of gene X by molecule Y. Similarly it may be recorded that molecule Y may be an inhibitor of gene X. Confidence in these types of associations may be built in the same way that other associations are built. This information may be considered when ranking molecules.

In order to answer the question what molecule is most likely to be acquired next the attributes of a molecule may be considered when valuing and acquiring an asset. The components may include one or more categories including for example 

At one or more sub scores discussed above may be generated and based on relevance may be added to generate one or more Compound Scores or simply Scores .

As an example the Innovation Engine may provide one or more Scores that include one or more components including for example 

1. Disease Subcategory Diseases can fall into therapeutic categories e.g. cancer and more specifically indications e.g. prostate cancer . The Score for a particular drug molecule or key opinion leader may be calculated differently for both therapeutic categories as well as specific indications. For example Professor Y at University X might have a Score of 95 100 for lung cancer but only a Score of 45 100 for breast cancer. This determination may be based on the specific research that he she conducts and how it relates to the market trends for each indication. For example scientific publications have suggested that RNAi would be best suited for an easily accessible and immune privileged organ such as the eye. Accordingly the Innovation Engine may be configured to assign an investigator working on developing RNAi technologies for the liver with a lower relative Score than an investigator working on RNAi for eye disease.

2. Risk of Stage of Development Risk of commercial development is inherently tied to the stage of development of the drug molecule. The earlier the stage of development the greater the risk. This is particularly the case in pre clinical drug development where there are many shades of grey when describing the stage of development of a molecule in vitro in vivo toxicology etc. . Just as the risk of technology may be impacted by the most advanced phase of development the Innovation Engine may also be configured to take into account the current stage of the individual molecule when calculating the Score.

3. Scientific Factors There are scientific factors such as toxicology pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetic data that may impact the probability of successful drug development and licensing. Much of this data may be included in patent abstracts publication abstracts and other data sources that may be imported into the Innovation Engine. The Engine may include one or more additional proxies such as for example the prestige of the publication which can be measured by factors such as journal impact factors and quantity quality of citations.

4. Importance of Intellectual Property Intellectual property as mentioned previously can play a quintessential factor in deciding which drugs to license acquire for commercialization. There are many factors that can influence the strength of biomedical intellectual property such as the term protection remaining the breadth of claims granted and indications listed among other factors.

5. Importance of University Commercial Entity Drug development decisions are not only made by examining scientific data. There are socially driven factors that influence the decision making process that are subtler and are inherently more subjective than objective. The reputation of particular Universities for having a successful track record of innovative science and efficient technology transfer are factors that influence this variable. In some embodiments the Innovation Engine incorporates quantitative metrics to calculate the impact of such factors.

6. Importance of People and Relationships Associated with the importance of the reputation of the University Commercial Entity are the personal relationships between for example scientists investors and or business people. In some embodiments the Innovation Engine examines one or more of the co authorship of scientific publication co inventors on patents venture capital and angel financings and other relationships to quantify the social network e.g. of scientists in a quantitative manner. In some embodiments this aspect directly impacts the scores for commercial entities Universities and or researchers key opinion leaders.

In some embodiments the Innovation Engine provides a score having a range that is determined by one or more of for example the therapeutic category indication mechanism s and phase of development. In some embodiments the Score is normalized to 100 and can vary depending on the above variables and evolves with market trends.

In some embodiments the Innovation Engine builds the Score over time. For example the Score for a particular drug molecule may increase decrease as for example additional validation from experiments become available and or as the marketplace evolves and additional licensing transactions are made. This continuous feedback may adjust the Score positively and or negatively. For example if a drug molecule reports an adverse side effect in phase I clinical trials the Score will be negatively impacted. Conversely if licensing trends reveal a trend towards stem cell therapies for a particular indication drug molecules utilizing such a technology would be favorably impacted.

In some embodiments a perfect score essentially represents the highest likelihood that the biopharma industry will act in a particular direction. A perfect score for a particular indication and phase of development is achieved when all relevant scientific experiments have been conducted and published in peer reviewed scientific journals. Market forces such as terms of intellectual property protection capital investment and licensing trends support the technology in a statistically significant manner.

In some embodiments the distribution of weighting factors that influence the Score may be determined by rigorous historical analysis of drug development trends clinical trial results and licensing merger acquisitions data. As new data continuously becomes available through the data sources the popular the Innovation Engine database the weighting of specific factors may be adjusted at to accurately reflect the current trends in drug development.

In some embodiments the Innovation Engine includes an internal quality assurance alert system which automatically notifies a user when significant changes occur to Scores for for example molecules key opinion leaders genes mechanisms diseases Universities and Commercial Entities. This system allows the user to monitor developments as they occur and also enable proactive quality assurance checks to be made. In some embodiments the system includes identifying of statistical outliers and makes this information available for quality control measures to be taken.

There are many factors that simultaneously impact the probability of a transaction occurring. The specific factors may vary based on for example indication and phase of development and may be determined through the machine learning approach.

Referring now to the Innovation Engine may provide a user interface through which the user may access the Scores and other data e.g. the original data sources and other data provided by the innovation Engine . This may be done by generating and sending a user query to the controller processing the user query and generating and sending a ranked profile list returned by the search query .

In some embodiments the user may access the Innovation Engine at their desktop e.g. a Personal Computer terminal tablet etc. on a continuous basis to stay abreast of scientific and market developments in their respective fields of interest. By providing a series of dashboards which may be customizable users will be able to monitor clinical trial developments publication trends funding awards and market dynamics On a real time basis.

The users may interact with the dashboards as well. In some embodiments the Innovation Engine utilizes one or more visualization tools such as e.g. Google widgets and SPOTFIRE TIBCO to provide a dynamic and hands on experience for business development and licensing professionals to explore complex data sets and gather insights that would not normally be available. This may be done for example by examining the historical trend analysis of a Score for a particular indication. For example the user interface may be configured to allow the user to visualize the overall trend and associated events that have impacted the Score for each mechanism of action.

In some embodiments the user interface may include graphical representations including various levers and dials that will allow the user to influence the weighting of the Score for a given search. In some embodiments the user may customize how the Score is calculated on a broad scale without revealing the actual calculation s that go into the Score. For example a user may be concerned with the strength of Intellectual Property for a given search specifically the mention of an indication s in the claims and the term of protection. The user in this case may at the same time not be particularly concerned with the publication record of the molecule and may choose to decrease this weighting aspect of the Score.

In some embodiments visualization of the Score over time may be displayed to the user using a temporal line graph that shows annotations of events that impact the Score. By allowing users to view how the score changes over time as well as the events associated with the change users will gain an appreciation for the components e.g. the sub scores of the Score without knowing the precise weighting and components. Additionally the interface may be configured to provide a natural history of the historical development trends associated with the search criteria.

The following case study which is based on real events is provided as an example to illustrate how the event of the purchase of Company S assets by Company R could be predicted by the Score and what happens when for example a paper P is published and how it impacts the scoring system in accordance with some embodiments of the present subject matter.

When paper P was published in 2007 all of these profiles would have been established for several years. Here is how the Score for the compound Company S s compounds and mechanism gene GeneX1 would have evolved in the Innovation Engine database.

While Compound R itself has a profile in the database that would show up as a GeneX1 activator according to the publication and patent records the actual Company S compounds that were sold to Company R entered the database as a result of a 2005 patent application. Based on that application the Innovation Engine would record that Company S owns a set of small molecule drugs targeted at GeneX for use in a cadre of diseases including Type 2 Diabetes. The list of gene targets that would be recorded include GeneX1 GeneX2 GeneX3 and all the associated genes. This is important because when the compound actually gets a name later which can be taken from press releases or future publications it will be associated back to the appropriate patent or set of patents. So when the original patent application comes in the Innovation Engine creates a defector compound profile for all compounds target matches. In other words based on what is in that patent application we know that company S may have compounds that modulate human GeneX1 GeneX2 GeneX3 etc. The database would therefore include all the compounds for company S based on this patent and the compound and their mechanism gene targets would be linked through the gene profile to a number of diseases researchers institutions etc. which would subsequently contribute to that compound s Score at the time they enter the database. Later on in publications and press releases when the name is identified it will be added as synonym to the current internal name joining the profiles. Furthermore company S had originally licensed Dr. X s compound R derivative compounds from Medical School M in 2004 these profiles would have already existed and would have been synonymously linked when the new filings were submitted.

It should be noted that while up to date and published list of known compounds and their synonyms have been used to build the basis for the system the issue of how to enter new compounds is a critical one. Because the Innovation Engine determines a predictive score which may be based on the likelihood of a compound to be licensed this commercial event is dependent largely on a base of intellectual property. In other words without a patent there is nothing to license. While compound profiles can exist without a patent driven largely by the mechanism gene profile and publication clinical history the important compounds have a patent for our purpose. Accordingly in some embodiments the Innovation Engine preferably obtains new compound profiles from patent applications. Furthermore patent application are likely to link the compound to an inventor researcher commercial entity institution gene mechanism disease or all four profiles thus instantly allowing the Innovation Engine to generate a Score or rankable profile for the compound within the database.

To see how the Score of a compound could evolve over time let s look back in time a hit more. In 1999 Dr. X eventual co founder of company S authored a paper with another researcher Dr. G which for the first time mentions GeneX1 with human disease. At that time Dr. X was a post doctoral fellow in Dr. G s laboratory and while an up and coming researcher particularly in the cell cycle and yeast field it would have been Dr. G s involvement that would be of importance. Dr. G was an established researcher with a strong grant history recorded in the Innovation Engine system from the NIH database who would have added to the importance of this paper to GeneX1 in drug development. The initial work focused around cell biology and most cell biology related to Cancer research focused on cell cycle DNA damage and senescence. The translational aspects of this research were primary to Cancer. Thus the initial work would have improved the rank of GeneX1 as a drug target within Oncology.

Between 2000 and 20001 a number of related publications and patents including a patent by Dr. G became available.

In 2002 Dr. G and other researchers received the first R01 s major research grants from NIH also captured by the Innovation Engine for GeneX1 and metabolism metabolism would link the grant and the mechanism to Diabetes in our database and the field essentially explodes from there. The number of grants patents and publications increased dramatically in both number and prestige between 2001 and 2004 for GeneX1 in metabolism and diabetes. In 2003 Dr. X now no longer working for Dr. G and with his own lab at Medical School M authors a paper which is published by a prestigious journal became the first one to demonstrate the positive effects of GeneX1 activation in metabolism which he did with a group of Compound R like compounds he had paid to have generated. He subsequently patented those compounds for activation of Gene1. All of this information was attainable from the related patent application and would have entered the Innovation Engine database as independent compounds which are linked directly to Dr. X s investigator profile in the database.

Over the following two years 2003 2005 the number and prestige of publications increased dramatically. The number of grants for GeneX1 research expanded. The number of patents filed with the USPTO expanded including Company S s patents. GeneX1 abstracts presence at multiple conferences also expanded over the period.

Company S was founded in 2004 by Dr. Y and licensed the original Dr. X compounds. All of this information was in press releases from 2004 and would have been linked to the profiles of company S Dr. X GeneX1 and Diabetes. At this stage sometime in late 2004 and early 2005 the GeneX1 compounds would have begun to be in the top ranked quartile within pre clinical Diabetes compounds according to the Score. This position would have only been enhanced by additional patent filings grant funding and the publication of results linking GeneX1 to more established diabetes disease pathways and other dysfunctions all of which the Innovation Engine database would already be able to correlate based on the data it pulls from the relational KEGG database . A number of other publications ultimately led up to the 2007 paper P sponsored by company S but the evidence had continued to build in multiple preclinical models of Diabetes that activation of GeneX1 could be a treatment. For company S the paper represented the first demonstration of in vivo efficacy for their compounds and certainly contributed to the purchase of the company by company R less than four months later.

Since the 2007 paper P a controversy developed in the literature surrounding GeneX1 activation by company S compounds and the lead candidate showed lackluster results in early clinical trials for diabetes. Both of these issues would have impacted the compound s Score. However company S has several compounds in development and the literature has expanded. One of the key findings is that other genes of the GeneX family may actually be more important targets in Diabetes and other diseases continue to pursue GeneX targets. Specifically Dr. G s own company has several patents surrounding GeneX modulating compounds and another company in 2009 acquired an exclusive option to acquire Dr. G s company after the company postponed an IPO during the economic downturn.

Calculating the Score As discussed above the Score may include one or more variables including for example 1 Stage of Development 2 Scientific Relevance 3 Therapeutic Relevance 4 Intellectual Property 5 Inventor Profile and 6 Commercial Entity Profile. Using the case study here is how the Score would be calculated in accordance with an embodiment of the Innovation Engine at two different time periods right after the paper P in late 2007 and January 2005.

Stage of Development 2005 At this time there are no GeneX1 compounds in the clinic for any indication. However there are several preclinical steps published including use of the compounds in a model use of the compounds in vitro use of the compounds rescue of Knock Out KO animals genetic KO Mouse yeast and publications on the gene in key diabetic disease models and relevant tissue models and a significant background literature on the core compound R including clinical studies. Furthermore the transactional stage of the compounds had begun to advance patents had been filed by more than one party licenses had occurred start up companies formed.

Stage of Development 2007 in additional to all studies noted above several other in vivo steps had been taken with the compounds more patents had been filed more companies started more licenses executed.

Scientific Relevance 2005 By 2005 the importance of GeneX1 in Diabetes had begun to accelerate as noted by the number and prestige of the publications similarly the presence of the work in abstracts for conferences as well as the increasing number of major NIH grants from the relevant funding agencies signified the rising position of the gene mechanism scientifically. However at that time the major areas of research focus in terms of Diabetes treatments focused around other targets and these targets remained better classified in some cases and compounds targeting those genes were considered to have more scientific relevance. Of note in late 2004 several publications emerged functionally linking the function of GeneX1 and other genes. However this was already established in multiple signaling pathway databases such as the ones already imported into the database this link would have added to the value of GeneX1 programs.

Scientific Relevance 2007 The GeneX family had taken off as important players in metabolic disease with grant support and publication rates expanding exponentially from 2004 2007 this would have increased the scores of GeneX1 compounds as well as the scores of all GeneX targeting compounds. According to the weighting of this embodiment much of this relevance would have been incorporated by 2005.

Therapeutic Relevance 2005 At this early stage there would be only a few boxes checked for this component of the score. The compound was oral which would be a positive for this indication and early studies had indicated disease prevention and reversal.

Therapeutic Relevance 2007 Not a lot of changes since 2007 the lack of pharmacology studies at this stage would be a slight negative to the compound.

Intellectual Property 2005 The number of submissions the breadth of the claims and the IP holders are all positives for the IP support.

Intellectual Property 2007 Issuance of patents for company S completion of licensing deals as well as a number of the details of the 2007 patents which ensure breadth of claim are all incremental positives for the compounds.

Inventor Researcher Profile 2005 Dr. X although young and lacking strong finding history from the NIB would still receive relatively high marks for GeneX1 specifically. His affiliations at a prestigious university benefit his Score ranking . If he had a compound for oncology his score in GeneX1 would be higher due to arguably equal levels in oncology and diabetes.

Inventor Researcher Profile 2007 Dr. X s Score would be improved not only because of the successful License of the technology but because of NCH grants publications and title promotion at his university.

Commercial Entity Institution Profile 2005 Both Medical School M and company S would be considered in this evaluation. Medical School M is a prestigious institution and therefore positively impacts the translational commercial attractiveness in the marketplace. Company S would be scored as an emerging company however considered very well capitalized 45 MM a round shortly before this date . Additionally Y s track record the board members the advisory board and their recent success would be considered.

Commercial Entity Institution Profile 2007 Somewhat similar however additional raises and IP would be considered.

In summary in 2005 despite being preclinical the compounds had achieved several hurdles adding value on both the IP Scientific Relevance Stage of Development Inventor and Entity aspects. Relative to other potential targets in diabetes it would be considered a relative newcomer but a fast rising start and important factor in the Innovation Engine . The primary advancements from there to 2007 involve further advancement in stage of development enhancement of scientific relevance expanded IP protection and improved profile of Dr. X. It could be said that company R would not have purchased the company without the in vivo data and or the final patent issuance both of which were likely important factors. However a number of other factors clearly contributed to the deal and the fact that Dr. G s company partnered with another company less than a year after validates the broader approach.

As discussed above the Innovation Engine creates quantitative metrics for analyzing predicting and measuring trends which may be used in fields including diagnostics markers life science tools genetic tools and technologies proteomic tools and technologies medical devices surgical devices and technologies imaging tools and technologies drug repositioning generic pharmaceuticals antibody production animal model production stem cell therapy regulatory pharmaceutical and biological manufacturing clinical trial design intellectual property strategy human resources nutraceuticals research healthcare policy investment strategies VC hedge angel public securities trading instruments education and bioinformatics. Ingestion of additional data sources such as patient medical records insurer information Medicare inpatient statistics or patient genetic information would enable the existing system to be leveraged to analyze predict and measure trends in physician performance diagnosis and therapeutic decision trees cost benefit analysis of treatment comparative effectiveness reimbursement trends and cause of adverse events. The system can enable software applications for use by physicians hospitals administrators policy makers insurers government officials and patients. The system and ontologies are also specifically designed to enable production of consumer patient driven application for interaction with individual electronic medical records and background trends and data.

Aspects of the subject matter described herein can be embodied in systems apparatus methods and or articles depending on the desired configuration. In particular various implementations of the subject matter described herein can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed application specific integrated circuits ASICs computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which can be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs which can also be referred to programs software software applications applications components or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the term machine readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device such as for example magnetic discs optical disks memory and Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor. The machine readable medium can store such machine instructions non transitorily such as for example as would a non transient solid state memory or a magnetic hard drive or any equivalent storage medium. The machine readable medium can alternatively or additionally store such machine instructions in a transient manner such as for example as would a processor cache or other random access memory associated with one or more physical processor cores.

To provide for interaction with a user the subject matter described herein can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as for example a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as for example a mouse or a trackball by which the user may provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well. For example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback such as for example visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user may be received in any form including but not limited to acoustic speech or tactile input. Other possible input devices include but are not limited to touch screens or other touch sensitive devices such as single or multi point resistive or capacitive trackpads voice recognition hardware and software optical scanners optical pointers digital image capture devices and associated interpretation software and the like.

The implementations set forth in the foregoing description do not represent all implementations consistent with the subject matter described herein. Instead they are merely some examples consistent with aspects related to the described subject matter. Although a few variations have been described in detail herein other modifications or additions are possible. In particular further features and or variations can be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example the implementations described above can be directed to various combinations and sub combinations of the disclosed features and or combinations and sub combinations of one or more features further to those disclosed herein. In addition the logic flows depicted in the accompanying figures and or described herein do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. The scope of the following claims may include other implementations or embodiments.

