---

title: Self-adapting direct peer to peer communication and messaging system
abstract: A system and method for communication and messaging among self-adapting peer nodes is disclosed, where each node maintains a list of authorized peer nodes. The nodes exchange requests directly with other nodes over networks, providing information identifying the requesting node and the type of request. The receiving node authenticates the requesting node, authenticates the type of request, and determines method of response to the request. If the request is authenticated and the type of request is valid, the receiving node also validates the incoming request and originating node and adapts its peer node database, applying any required changes. The types of requests exchanged between nodes include: status and location change, message, audio, voice, video, text, and data. The types of responses include: authorized, unauthorized, or ignore. The nodes may periodically send and receive requests for status, messages, and data updates from an optional central server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09386091&OS=09386091&RS=09386091
owner: Raketu Communications, Inc.
number: 09386091
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120719
---
The present invention relates generally to distributing data and messages and more particularly to systems and methods for distributing data and messages in a self adapting direct peer to peer network operating over local and wide area networks.

A peer to peer network is a network of two or more computers that employ a same program or type of program to communicate and share data. Each computer or peer e.g. node is typically considered equal in terms of responsibilities and acts as a server or relay to others in the network. In the invention self adapting direct peer to peer each computer or peer does not act as a server or relay to others in a network at any time. A peer to peer network is unlike a client server architecture where a dedicated central server is required. Peer to peer networks have become increasingly popular users employ peer to peer networks for sharing of data such as audio files multimedia files video files programs digital images and the like.

One common implementation of a peer to peer network utilizes a central server to maintain a list of nodes and data stored on the nodes which is an implementation utilized by file sharing software such as Napster. is a block diagram illustrating a system of a prior art type of peer to peer network implementation. The system includes a central server and a plurality of nodes . Respective nodes of the plurality of nodes can join and un join the system at will. Upon joining the nodes provide a list of files they are capable of serving to the central server . The central server adds the list of files to a list of the available files of all nodes. Upon un joining by the nodes the list of files are removed from the list of available files for all the nodes. A requesting node of the nodes requests a file by sending a request for the file to the central server . The central server maintains the list of available files of all nodes in the system and responds to the request with a list of nodes capable of answering or satisfying the request. The requesting node then makes a file request to a node that has the file and the recipient node responds with the file transfer . The requesting node then obtains the file via a direct connection to the node able to satisfy the request hereinafter referred to as a transferring node . The central server is not involved in the transfer of the file to the requesting node hence the name peer to peer .

Another common implementation of a peer to peer network utilizes a central server as the master which maintains a list of nodes data about those nodes and which is utilized in the request response events of the nodes and relay node or nodes that are utilized in the delivery of data and communications between the nodes. is a block diagram illustrating a system of such type of peer to peer network with relay node implementation and is a block diagram illustrating a system of such type of peer to peer network with supernodes the addition of one or more relay nodes. The system includes a central server and a plurality of nodes and relay nodes and . Respective nodes of the plurality of nodes can join and un join the system at will. Upon joining the nodes register with the central server . The central server maintains the list of nodes and information pertaining to those nodes. Upon un joining by the nodes the nodes become unregistered on the central server .

In the conventional peer to peer network with relay node as shown in a requesting node of the nodes requests an action or event by sending a request to the central server . The central server relays the request to the requested node receives the response and relays the response to the requesting node . In the response amongst other data is the relay node able to satisfy the relay of the requested event or action. The requesting node then confirms the action or event with the central server which is relayed to the requested node and the requesting and requested nodes are able to satisfy their requested action or event via the relay node . The central server is not involved in the relay of the action or event to the requesting node hence the name peer to peer .

In a supernode peer to peer network as shown in a requesting node of the nodes requests an action or event by sending a request to the central server . The central server relays the request to the requested node receives the response and relays the response to the requesting node . In the request and response amongst other data is the relay node or nodes able to satisfy the relay of the requested event or action. The requesting node then confirms the action or event with the central server which is relayed to the requested node and the requesting and requested nodes are able to satisfy their requested action or event via the relay nodes . The central server is not involved in the relay of the action or event to the requesting node hence the name peer to peer . In addition the central server periodically updates the relay nodes with relevant information including ability to service requests.

Although the conventional systems of and perform adequately there are a number of potential problems associated with such systems. One problem is that the system has a single point of failure even though the central server is not involved in serving requests the central server is involved in matching every request and determining a relay node or nodes. Thus if the central server goes off line the entire network can cease to function. A second problem is lack of scalability the central server is required to track relay nodes available at all nodes and determine which of these relay nodes are best suited to serve the action or event and since nodes can appear and disappear the central server must periodically contact each of the relay nodes e.g. by pinging the nodes . Such repeated updating can be a significant burden on the central server and the burden increases coincidentally with an increase in number of nodes in the system.

Another problem is that each node may become a relay node without user knowledge. This can lead to performance problems on the nodes as they process and route anonymous traffic not related to their communications and to security related problems as the node has no control over the origin or destination of the traffic that is being routed or the content and directives of the traffic.

The following is a summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for data and message distribution and more specifically to systems and methods that facilitate data and message distribution in peer to peer networks delivering communications actions and events. The present invention provides a data and messaging distribution system that is highly scalable and facilitates preserving anonymity of nodes or peers. A central server is employed to maintain a list of users from all nodes or peers in the system and unlike conventional peer to peer networks this central server is not required in order for the peer nodes to fully participate in messaging or communications events. The requests and responses are in a predefined machine readable format and indicate data or event requested and identifies the node making the request. Nodes are able to post requests for events as long as they and the receiving peer node have authenticated one another. Additionally the nodes upon specific events eg. login and logout register with the central server and based on specific events will receive messages from the central server. The peer node interaction with the central server is not required for the peers to fully interoperate with all other authorized peers.

The present invention is highly scalable due to the peers lack of reliance or requirement of the central server. Peer nodes can join or un join the system determine status send and receive messages and audio voice and video communications and fully participate in events without the central server. In effect once logged into the system the peer nodes operate completely independently of the central servers. Additionally large or small numbers of nodes can be present in the system since the central server has limited responsibilities eg. login and logout as compared with conventional peer to peer networks and has no responsibilities with relay nodes node to node messaging communications and events. Further the invention does not use nodes to facilitate transactions of other non authorized nodes in a relay manner eg. supernodes which allows the system to scale without restriction. Anonymity is facilitated by the invention because each of the nodes does not maintain a full list of users and other nodes but rather only maintains a list of authorized users and requests.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the invention are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways in which the invention may be practiced all of which are intended to be covered by the present invention. Other advantages and novel features of the invention may become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The present invention is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It may be evident however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present invention.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

It is to be appreciated that for purposes of the present invention any or all of the functionality associated with modules systems and or components discussed herein can be achieved in any of a variety of ways e.g. combination or individual implementations of active server pages ASPS common gateway interfaces CGIs application programming interfaces API s structured query language SQL component object model COM distributed COM DCOM system object model SOM distributed SOM DSOM ActiveX common object request broker architecture CORBA database management systems DBMSs relational database management systems RDBMSs object oriented database management system ODBMSs object relational database management systems ORDBMS remote method invocation RMI C C Java practical extraction and reporting language PERL applets HTML dynamic HTML server side includes SSIs extensible markup language XML portable document format PDF wireless markup language WML standard generalized markup language SGML handheld device markup language HDML graphics interchange format GIF joint photographic experts group JPEG binary large object BLOB other script or executable components .

The plurality of nodes make requests for data communications and messages and in response to requests fill or serve requests for data communications and messages. The plurality of nodes are typically software components operating or executing on a computer or mobile system. The nodes are able to communicate and transfer data with each other and with the access layer generally via a network connection e.g. Internet wireless network local area network wide area network mobile data services and the like employing established protocols.

The central server controls and operates a central database and an access layer . The central server includes a database for storing data regarding the status of nodes and data exchanged among the nodes. Access layer provides an interface between the central server and the plurality of nodes as well as an interface to the central server . The central server can be accessed by a user or operator in order to modify and control the operation of the system. The nodes can access the central server remotely through the access layer via a network.

The central server maintains a list of users their information authentication partnerships location information activity information and status information in a predefined machine readable format essentially functioning as the global directory for users in the context of the system deployment.

The central server maintains processes and responds to a list of requests from the nodes . The requests include login logout activity request e.g. make audio call receive video call invite user accept user user information location information.

Periodically the plurality of nodes check in with the central server in order to update or to be updated with new information. The nodes do not require this periodic check in in order to continue to operate and communicate with other nodes .

Each of the nodes maintains a list of authenticated and request authentication users their information authentication partnerships location information and status information in a predefined machine readable format. An authenticated partnership is one in which two nodes have both accepted to be approved or authenticated by each other. In order to begin the authentication request each node must first retrieve the specific information about another node with which they wish to authenticate from the central server . Once a node identifies the node with which they wish to request an authentication partnership node makes that request to the central server and adds the node information into their list of request authentication users. The central server either by sending to the requested node or by receiving a request from the requested node sends the request information to the requested node. The requested node then either accepts declines blocks or ignores the request. Once the requested node accepts the request it is considered a reciprocal authentication partnership. Prior to this reciprocal authentication no requests are sent or received between the two nodes. This information is periodically updated between authenticated nodes without the requirement of the central server .

Each of the nodes is able to make external event or activity requests either directly or indirectly via the central server or server computers on the network. These requests include SMS texting voice calling to from PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network connected phones and mobiles and information feeds e.g. news feeds stock market feeds weather feeds travel feeds .

In the self adapting direct peer to peer communication and messaging system it is possible to be fully operational without a central server present. The central server can be taken offline or be made inaccessible and the plurality of nodes will continue to function with updates activity requests communications and messaging.

While certain novel features of the present invention have been shown and described it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the forms and details of the device illustrated and in its operation can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. What has been described above includes examples of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the present invention but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present invention are possible. Accordingly the present invention is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

