---

title: Data collection process for optical leak detection
abstract: Method for collecting video files of one or more Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) components, including receiving information pertaining to the one or more LDAR components within a specified area, recording a video of the LDAR components for a predetermined amount of time using a camera, associating the video with the information, and storing the video along with the information to a memory located in a computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08866637&OS=08866637&RS=08866637
owner: LDARtools, Inc.
number: 08866637
owner_city: Dickinson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120924
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 359 196 filed Jan. 23 2009 titled DATA COLLECTION PROCESS FOR OPTICAL LEAK DETECTION which claims priority to and the benefit of 1 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 023 355 filed Jan. 24 2008 titled DATA COLLECTION PROCESS FOR OPTICAL LEAK DETECTION and 2 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 036 800 filed Mar. 14 2008 titled DATA COLLECTION PROCESS FOR OPTICAL LEAK DETECTION. Each of the aforementioned related patent applications is herein incorporated by reference.

Implementations of various technologies described herein generally relate to various methods and or systems for developing and maintaining data management systems.

The following descriptions and examples do not constitute an admission as prior art by virtue of their inclusion within this section.

Developing and implementing accurate and reliable database systems for applications entailing a large volume of data detail and many variations in component inventory structures is not an easy or obvious undertaking. Since the advent of data management a key component of a successful program has been the quality and condition of the database. For the earliest pioneers this was as straightforward as maintaining a set of 3 5 cards on which a series of data entries were recorded. On a periodic basis the cards where sorted and data was updated or transferred to other media as desired.

One industry where the quality of the database impacts key aspects of operations is in the field of Leak Detection and Repair LDAR . In this field videos are used to determine if components such as valves pumps compressors connectors flanges and other devices are leaking. The videos are stored in a computer readable medium as video files. Building and maintaining an effective database of these files can often be daunting. Developing an LDAR video file inventory and associated database is a difficult process that involves effective management of video file names time and date information for each video file intricate process conditions and other relevant information. These projects are typically done on a rush basis with both impending deadlines and tight budgets. The difficulty is compounded by the fact that the current technology available for cataloguing video files is extremely convoluted and tedious.

Described herein are implementations of various technologies for implementing and maintaining accurate and reliable data management tracking systems for leak detection video files in a leak detection video data system. In one implementation the leak detection video data system may include one or more Leak Detection and Repair LDAR components a camera a computer and an adapter cable. The computer and camera may communicate with each other via the adapter cable such that the computer may be used to control the camera. In one implementation the camera may be capable of recording videos of the LDAR components while the computer may encode and store the videos on a database.

In another implementation a computer application stored on the computer may receive information describing the LDAR components within an area from a technician. After receiving the relevant information the computer application may use the camera to record a video of the LDAR components for a predetermined amount of time. After recording the video the computer application may associate the recorded video with the information pertaining to the components in the video. The computer application may then store the recorded video along with its associated information in a database or a memory device on the computer. In another implementation the technician may use the computer application to superimpose information pertaining to the LDAR components onto the video while the video is being recorded by the camera.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is only for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

The following paragraphs provide a brief executive summary of one or more implementations of various techniques directed to implementing and maintaining accurate and reliable data management tracking systems for leak detection video files. In one implementation the leak detection video data system may include an LDAR database a laptop an adapter cable an optical leak detection camera a technician an area an area tag and one or more components to be monitored.

In operation a technician may use an application stored on the laptop or other computing system to download an LDAR route from the LDAR database. The LDAR route may include a list of areas such that each area may contain one or more LDAR components within a close proximity of each other. After receiving the LDAR route the technician may travel to the first area listed in the route and set up an optical leak detection camera to record a video at the site such that all of the components of the area may be seen on the display of the camera. In one implementation the technician may use an image file to determine how to set up the optical leak detection camera with respect to the components in the area. The image file may include an image or photograph of the components in the area that the technician may be recording a video. In one implementation the technician may position the display of the optical leak detection camera in such a manner that it may closely match that of the image. The technician may then connect the optical leak detection camera to the laptop with an adapter cable or with a wireless adapter. After the laptop is connected to the optical leak detection camera the technician may use a computer application to view the camera s image from the laptop s video display. Here the technician may enter information about the area such as its location time date temperature and the like into corresponding information fields that may be listed on the application. This information may be superimposed on the video itself or stored as an attachment that references the video file or in an identification tag contained within the video file. The technician may then use a computer application to record the optical leak detection camera s image for a specified amount of time.

After the computer application records the optical leak detection camera s image for the specified amount of time it may encode and store the recorded images as a video file on a hard drive or another memory device located on the laptop. The computer application may automatically store the video file with a unique file name so that the newly created video file may not overwrite any preexisting video files.

Upon viewing the video with the application the technician may determine that a component in the area is leaking. If the component is leaking the technician may zoom into the image of the leaking component with the optical leak detection camera to record an up close image of the leaking component. The technician may then view the optical leak detection camera s output image on the laptop s video display and may enter additional information pertaining to the leaking component such as the component type time date of the video temperature at the site and the like on additional information fields provided on the computer application. The technician may then send a command to the computer application to record the up close image for a specified number of seconds.

After the computer application records the leaking component s image up close for the specified amount of time it may encode and store the video file on its hard drive or another memory device. The video file may again be stored under a unique file name along with the information about the leaking component.

After recording videos of all of the leaking components in an area the computer application may either direct the technician to proceed to the next area listed in the downloaded route or inform the technician that he has completed recording the assigned areas according to his route.

One or more implementations of various techniques for managing a leak detection video data system will now be described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although only one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs a video capture application program data and a database system . The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like. The video capture application may be software capable of recording the images received from an optical leak detection camera and storing the recording in a video file. The video capture application will be described in more detail with reference to in the paragraphs below.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . The monitor may be of a touch screen monitor such that it may display the output of the computing system and it may also be able to detect the presence and location of a touch for inputs into the computing system. In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN .

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a modem wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The system may include a computer device such as a laptop in communication with a database an optical leak detection camera camera an adapter cable an area an area tag and one or more components .

The database may be configured to store LDAR information such as a technician s route area names component types and the like. The database may also contain an index of the available video files in the database. The database may be located on a server personal computer or other similar computer medium that may be accessed by the laptop . Alternatively the database may also be stored in the laptop .

The laptop may be a computer medium with the attributes of the computing system as described in . Although various implementations described herein are with reference to a laptop it should be understood that in some implementations the laptop may be substituted with any other computer device that can utilize software programs communicate wirelessly with other computer media and interface with the camera through a adapter cable such as a desktop Pocket PC Personal Digital Assistant PDA and the like. In one implementation the laptop may be part of the camera . As such the camera may include the attributes of the computing system and the ability to detect leaks from components .

The adapter cable may convert images obtained from the camera into a digital format that may be received by the laptop . In one implementation the adapter cable may interface with the laptop via a Universal Serial Bus USB connection. The camera may be any camera that may be used to determine if components may have a gas or liquid leak. In one implementation the camera may be an infrared camera that may determine if a component is leaking with the use of infrared light and the like. Although the adapter cable may have been described to be connected to the USB connection of the laptop it should be understood that in other implementations the adapter cable may connect to another input medium of the laptop . Furthermore in some implementations the camera may be connected to the laptop via a wireless connection or a wireless network.

The area may include images for the components that may be located within a close proximity of each other. The components may include equipment such as valves pumps compressors connectors flanges and other similar devices. The area may be marked by the area tag which may indicate the components that are within the area and information pertaining to its components such as its type size location and the like. The area tag may be placed in close proximity to the components of the area . In one implementation the area and the area tag may be referred to as an image group and image group tag respectively.

At step the video capture application may receive a request from a technician to download the LDAR route from the database . The route may include a list of one or more areas containing components that the technician may be assigned to monitor during a shift.

At step the video capture application may download the route from the database . The video capture application may use the LAN or WAN to establish a connection with the database to download the route. Upon downloading the route the video capture application may display the route on the monitor via a Graphical User Interface GUI window. In one implementation the route may include a list of the areas where each area includes one or more components placed within a close proximity of each other. In one implementation each area may be associated with a corresponding area image and video file that may contain a previously obtained image and optical leak detection video of the components in the area . The route may be presented on one GUI window on the monitor of the computing system .

In one implementation the technician may select an area from the GUI window displaying the route to view a list of the components in a particular area . If the GUI window of the particular area does not accurately reflect the actual components that may be in the particular area the technician may edit the GUI window of the particular area so that it may accurately represent the components in the area . In one implementation the technician may drag one or more icons that may represent the components from a GUI window containing icons that may represent every possible component to the GUI window representing the particular area . Although it has been described that the video capture application may display the route information in various GUI windows it should be understood that the route information may be displayed on the monitor in a variety of other ways such as GUI columns text lists and the like.

The technician may then travel to the location of the first area listed in the route. Here the technician may set up the camera such that it may monitor the components in the area . In one implementation if the area is not associated with a previously recorded video file the technician may set up the camera so that all of the components in the area are visible through the camera s lenses. As such the camera may be set up to where the components are readily identifiable in the display of the camera and where the components are located within a predetermined distance away from the camera . The predetermined distance may be defined by one or more regulations related to obtaining videos of LDAR components. The technician may then connect the camera to the laptop using the cable adapter .

In one implementation the video capture application may display the route as a list of icons in a GUI window. Each icon may represent an area that the technician may need to check for leaking components. Each icon representing an area may also be represented by a second GUI window. The second GUI window may contain one or more other icons which may represent the components that may be in the area . In one implementation the technician may edit the components listed in each GUI window representing an area to accurately represent information pertaining to the components that may physically exist in each area . For example if the GUI window representing a particular area does not accurately indicate the components that may actually exist within the area the technician may add or subtract one or more components into the GUI window representing the particular area to accurately reflect each component that may be in the area . In one implementation the technician may drag and drop specific icon may represent each type of the components . Here the technician may then drag the appropriate icon representing a specific type of component from the GUI window containing the list of icons representing each type of component to the GUI window representing the area containing the respective component .

If however the area is associated with a previously recorded video file the technician may first locate and view an image file that may correspond to the previously recorded video file. In one implementation the image file may be stored on the database along with the video files. The image file may include a photograph that displays the components in the area as it was previously recorded by the camera . In one implementation the image file may be viewed on the monitor of the laptop or on the view finder of the camera . The image file may be used by the technician as a reference point or a guide to properly obtain the video of the components . As such the technician may use the image file to determine an appropriate position to set up the camera to record the video of the components in the area .

In one implementation the technician may set up the camera such that its view finder may display the components of the area in a substantially similar manner as compared to the corresponding image file. For example the technician may align what he sees in the view finder or display of the camera with the corresponding image file before he obtains an image or video file. In another implementation the image file may be used as an audit tool by enabling an auditor to quickly compare the images obtained by a technician and the corresponding image files of the area . The image file may therefore assist the technician in determining whether the components in the area are properly displayed on the camera and whether the camera is positioned at an appropriate distance away from the components . For example an auditor may compare the images obtained by the technician and the corresponding image files to determine if the two images were obtained by the camera from the same or geographical location. In one implementation the location in which the camera is set up may be referred to as a view spot. Although in this implementation the image file has been described to have been located and viewed on the laptop or the camera it should be noted that in other implementations the image file may be printed on photograph paper or the like.

At step the video capture application may receive a request from the technician to display the image obtained from the camera on the laptop . In one implementation such request may take place when the technician presses the ENTER key on the keyboard .

At step the video capture application may display the image obtained from the camera on the monitor . In one implementation the video capture application may display the image on another GUI window on the monitor . The resolution of the image may be displayed in a variety of different resolutions such as 640 480 pixels and the like.

At step the video capture application may receive information pertaining to the area such as temperature date time component types area name location and the like. In one implementation information pertaining to the area may be superimposed onto the images as they are being displayed on the video.

The technician may then document the name of each component being monitored in the area on the area tag . The technician may hang the area tag such that it may be located in close proximity of the components of the area . In one implementation the technician may place the area tag such that each component in the area and the area tag may be visible on the camera .

At step the video capture application may receive a request to obtain an image from the camera and record the image for a predetermined amount of time.

At step after receiving the request to record the camera s image the video capture application may obtain an image of the camera and record the camera s image for the predetermined amount of time. In one implementation the image of the camera may be stored as an image file into the hard disk drive or another memory component in the laptop or the camera . The image file may be given a distinct name to associate the file with the corresponding area that it represents. The obtained image may be an infrared light visible light or any other similar type of image such that the components in the area are readily identifiable by a technician. The obtained image may be used by a technician to confirm that all of the components have been included in the video. Although the image is described above as being obtained prior to recording the video it should be understood that this image may be obtained after or during the video recording.

Additionally while the video capture application is actively recording a video of the camera s image the technician may superimpose information fields visible light photographs or other items onto the video in real time. Upon completing the video recording the video capture application may automatically encode and store the video file into the hard disk drive or another memory component. The video capture application may encode or compress the video file in one or more codecs. The technician may select one or more codecs in which to store the video file. In one implementation the video capture application may generate a unique file name for each video file such that the newly created file may not overwrite another video file. The file names for the video files may include technician defined files sorting searching and archiving features.

In one implementation after the video capture application records the camera s image for the predetermined amount of time it may display a message on the monitor to move camera so that a different viewing angle of the area may be recorded.

At step the video capture application may request the technician to indicate if one of the components is leaking. In one implementation the camera may automatically indicate to the video capture application that one of the components is leaking.

If the video capture application receives an indication from the technician that the components were not leaking the video capture application may proceed to step . At step the video application may display a message on the monitor instructing the technician to proceed to the next area listed in the route.

Referring back to step if the technician indicates that a component is leaking the video capture application may proceed to step and request that the technician indicate if the leaking component s image has been recorded up close.

If the technician indicates to the video capture application that the leaking component s image has not been recorded up close the video capture application may proceed to step and display a message for the technician to zoom into the image of the leaking component found at step . After the technician has zoomed into the image of the leaking component the video capture application may repeat steps for the leaking component.

Referring back to step if the video capture application receives input from the technician indicating that the leaking component s image was already recorded up close then the video capture application may proceed to step and display a message on the monitor instructing the technician to proceed to the next area listed in his route.

While the foregoing is directed to implementations of various technologies described herein other and further implementations may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which may be determined by the claims that follow. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

